ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32438	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 97 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Dusan Budišin, Jovan Todorovic, Zaharija Trnavčević, Juhas Atila, Aleksandra Joksimović, Gorica Mojović, Stanko Kovacevic, Aleksandar Stefanović, Predrag Stojanović, Dragan Rafailović, Milutin Svetović and Nebojsa Lekovic; (before noon) Zoran Ćirković, Petar Misic and Olga Kircanski. I am informing the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In accordance with Articles 162, 165 and 80(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to make decisions as soon as possible to resolve the disputed situation in relation to the selection of members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council, which were challenged by political parties and media associations, as well as that, in the light of the deadlines provided for by the Law of Responsibility for Human Rights Violation, elects members of the Commission to examine the responsibility for human rights violations. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Tomislav Markovic, elected from the Socialist Party of Serbia's electoral list -- Slobodan Milosevic. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, the National Assembly finds confirmation of the mandate to MP Tomislav Markovic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, which was convened at the request of a group of 107 MPs, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the 11th Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 11th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, the next Dn e n i d 1 was established. Proposals for a discharge of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, submitted by a group of 49 MPs; 2. A proposal to elect members of the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations, submitted by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic. We're going to work on the agenda, the first item of the agenda. And you are an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, please. National MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32439	The SRS parliamentary group considers that the conditions for holding this session have not been met. I'd like to point out some details. On Friday, we received a practical call for this session and the president of the National Assembly did not exercise his authority, or duty within the meaning of Article 133(2). Rules of Procedure. I will read this article: "If the bill is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will ask the motion to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which will specify exactly what these discrepancies are in." This is an analogue remark based on Rule 156 of our Rules of Procedure, including other acts, and not only on the bill. In fact, we have been given as a part of the agenda of three proposals, namely three decisions on the resolution of members of the Broadcasting Council with only one signature. Namely, every decision had to be signed by the motionary. Secondly, no date can be seen when the applicant is signed. Thirdly, in the summary, or in the motion for an emergency session, the same signatures are shown to be photocopied. I would further point out that the promoters have set the agenda, but if the stamps from the office are looked at, then you can see that the proposal for the second item of the agenda has come, practically, after calling these extraordinary sessions. These are procedural things that make it impossible for us to do today, because these shortcomings are standing, they can't be removed. Take a look at the guidebooks, and you will see that since 9 July 2003 a proposal for holding an emergency session was received on July 10th, number 1954, and you can see how the proposal for the second item of the agenda was filed, under July 9th and number 1958. This is this obvious discrepancy, that at the time of the application for an emergency session, practically the second item of the agenda did not exist as a proposal. Then I would point to Article 135, paragraph 5. Before the debate begins, we should also have reports, or opinions from the committees responsible. We don't have it, but this session is being held by force, we heard of a call Friday afternoon, the material for the next session came on Saturday, the MPs didn't get it. So MPs should watch television, monitor public information funds, so they know when to get the agenda, what to do, and when to be a session of the National Assembly. In addition, I express my dissatisfaction with the majority of MPs present in the National Assembly for abuse of this period of extraordinary session. Everything and everything is on the agenda, people can't even organize their basic life obligations for this period. It's simply that the spirit of this Rules of Procedure has been annulled, because the MPs are being treated as tasters--someone whistles, they must gather here to vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32440	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. The MPs were not present in the O.R. when I gave an explanation as to why, within seven days, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, I called this session. If you'd been in the O.R., you wouldn't have had that remark. Secondly, as for the proposal and the signing of the decision, this is, at the first point of the agenda, about one proposal containing three decisions. So 50 MPs signed the proposal containing three decisions. There was no need for each decision to be signed specifically, nor have we done so so so far. If you are not satisfied with my response to the adjudication of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Administrative Committee to give a reply to the MP Zoran Krasic. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32441	I believe that the proposal for a decision that we have received is not regulated or is not made in accordance with the law, since there are no reasons for the resolution of a member of the Council, and that Article 29 of the Law explicitly states that a resolution decision can only be made on the basis of a reasoned proposal. We don't have a reasoned proposal here. The explanation is, about, the wish of Nenad Cekic, which is not relevant, is not a legal basis and MPs want to allow the National Assembly to legally and in a legal procedure answer the question whether there is, because we do not see what the reason for the resolution is, so the question is whether we can resolve someone for these reasons. We can put a decision on the election of Cekic out of force, but we cannot resolve him because there are no reasons and he cannot go on his request; he can resign, but he cannot and there is no request for resolution, a personal request, to discuss him now. He can resign or otherwise be resolved, because it is one of the grounds for resolution, and this cannot be stated in the resolution. This proposal does not comply with the law, therefore, and with the Rules of Procedure, on decisions that must comply with the law and see in Article 29. The law on broadcasting, look at the explanation you gave, see if any such proposal can come to this assembly. I believe that this must have been taken into account by the Assembly under official duty, that every proposal should be in accordance with the law, because when we, as a party, send a proposal to the Secretariat or to the President of the National Assembly, when something is not in accordance with the law, we get a readmission - bring this into line with the law. This proposal simply does not comply with the law, there is no reason to resolve, there is no reason to explain, there is no basis for asking for a resolution, which must certainly be part of the proposal for a decision. I don't see how we can discuss this proposal properly. There are other reasons that are mentioned in the public, but why they are avoided, it is a conflict of interest between Cekic and Cvetkovic, not reporting accurate data by Redenovic. That can be an explanation, what stands certainly can't. This proposal for a decision must be put in order so that we can discuss it properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32442	First of all, I have to say that they're untrue allegations that there are no arguments. There are three reasons. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the place: I said there are reasons, but they are not in accordance with the law. ) It explains that there was a proposal for a decision to allow the National Assembly to make another statement in a legal, legal procedure on members who challenged political parties and media associations. I believe that's enough reason. If we really want to be a democratic institution, then to respect the opinion of the public, and I certainly believe that a broader explanation will be given to you by a proposing representative, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform. If you are not satisfied with the answer, the Administrative Board will give you an answer, ask the Administrative Board for an answer. I ask the President of the Administrative Committee to bring an opinion on this matter on the objection of MP Dean Michael. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - SUMMARY OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC AGENCY For this item of the agenda, you have made proposals for decisions, proposed by a group of 49 MPs, and this is: 1. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Nenad Cekic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, 2. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of Prof. Dr. Vladimir Cvetkovic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and 3. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of Goran Radenovic's membership in the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. You also filed a report by the Committee on Culture and Information on the implementation of the Law on Broadcasting, with contributions. I remind you that according to Article 156(3), the total time for the parliamentary groups is five hours, and I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to submit the lists of those declared for this agenda point, and pursuant to Article 156. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions and asking whether the representative, MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, wants to give the opening statement? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32443	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have proposed these three points and defined the proposal in this way because it was practically the only possible way for the Assembly to reaffirm the confidence or mistrust of the three members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council. I note that it is in Article 29. The Law on Broadcasting clearly defined that the Assembly may, on a proposal from the Council or on a proposal from at least 20 MPs, resolve a member of the Council in the following cases, and under point 3), say - if it is determined that some of the circumstances of Article 25 of this Law have taken place during the term of office of a member of the Council. It's something we need today during the debate to determine. This session was preceded by Mr Cekic's request, as president of the Radiodifuge Agency Council, and was preceded by a debate before the Committee on Information and Culture and the Legislative Committee, which gave its opinion on the legal segments of this problem. In public, we have had the opportunity for the last few weeks and even months to attend the challenge of the election of three members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council. What we're suggesting and the way we're going to try to shape this debate is that it has to go in two directions. The first course is to discuss the status of Mr. Cekic and Mr. Cvetkovic, as members of the Broadcasting Agency Council, and the second direction is to discuss Mr. Radenovic's status, for a very simple reason: there was a lot of talk in the public about biography and a lot of discussion about the choice of Mr. Cekic and Mr. Cvetkovic. It has been almost three months since they were elected members of the Council, and the law stipulates that there must be a formal public condition in which a deadline must be in which the biographies of members must be exposed. That deadline, as foreseen by the law, is 30 days. This formal condition was not respected by the Assembly and, in a procedural sense, came out without that 30 - day deadline. This cannot be the basis for Mr. Cekic and Mr. Cvetkovic's responsibility. They can't be resolved based on that. The very clear Article 29 defines the conditions for the resolution of members of the Council. Therefore, inability to perform a function or to perform circumstances referred to in Article 25. - the execution of a criminal offence or if they become officials of assembly or executive authorities, if they are shareholders, owners or employees of certain broadcasting companies or if they are close relatives of such persons. These are the reasons why sanctioning members of the Council can take place by means of a resolution. It is quite clear that Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Cekic were in no way able to influence the Assembly to define the deadline, i.e. to leave that 30-day deadline for public insight into their biography. For almost 90 days, however, almost three times longer, there is a public debate on their biographies. Their biographies are exposed to the public and the procedure that took place before the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Culture and Information and today's debate before the Assembly, constitutes an absolutely legal condition for this candidacy to be considered fully valid. The deadline, which requires public respect, more than twice, is almost three times longer than the deadline provided for in the law. In this respect, the Legislative Committee has also been defined, as well as the Committee on Culture and Information, that it is necessary to repeat the legislation provided for in the procedure in Skuština, in order for these two members of the Broadcasting Agency Council to be considered fully in accordance with the Law on Broadcasting. About the third member, Mr Radenovic, there was a public dilemma on whether there were formal obstacles to his election at the Radiodifuge Agency Council and the Assembly today should, based on valid data, official data, determine whether Mr Radenovic meets the formal requirements for membership in the Radiodifuge Agency Council or not. Incompatibility with membership, pursuant to Article 25, may be: if it is a political party functioner, functioning in one of the forms of government and if it is an perpetrator of a criminal offence that makes him unfit for membership in the Council. A resolution is possible if, when running for this post, a member of the Council, i.e. a candidate for a member of the Council, submitted false information about himself, or hid some information in his biography. It is up to us, as the Assembly, to determine whether or not this was the case and to define ourselves at the end of the vote whether Mr Radenovic also enjoys the support of this assembly. So, I note that this debate must go in two directions, because so far it has not been from the formal point of view of any dispute between Mr Cvetkovic and Cekic's candidacy, only the procedural part for which the Assembly is responsible and which today's debate and tomorrow's vote will be overcome, while for Mr Radenovic, we need to determine whether there are or what they are like in public that would potentially dispute the data he submitted in his candidacy. These data, or documents today, must be kept in mind. For us as a Assembly, as an official body, as the highest authority of government in this country, as representatives of the people who are the bearer of sovereignty, the only official document, the only documents of the state's institutions can be valid. Why is it unusually important to finally establish the Council of the Broadcasting Agency and finally stop with much debate and politicize this topic? The fate of state television, i.e. the fate of RTS, which becomes a public service and which, according to the Law on Broadcasting, became a public service, the fate of several thousand employees in RTS and in TV Novi Sad, which is part of RTS, is in our hands, that is, in the hands of the Council, and therefore we must give this advice uncut authority in regulating this area. The Law on Broadcasting also provides for the protection of children from content that can be harmful to their moral, physical or intellectual development. As MPs and as a Assembly, it is our responsibility for this law to finally begin to be fully applied in practice. We're having total legal confusion right now. The law has come into force, the law is in force. The transitional and final provisions provide for the possibility of overcoming the possible time gap between the moment the law began to apply and the moment it was fully applied, especially in the part relating to the obligations of broadcasting services, i.e. radio stations and television stations and the part relating to the work of the Radiodifuge Agency Council. This law also provides for a ban on hate speech, this law also provides for a ban on poisoning the mental state of this nation. The law provides for copyright protection, the law envisions full regulation, otherwise completely confusing, inherited confusion in the media that has existed in Serbia for many years. It is up to us, as Parliament, to provide this council with full authority. This is the only formal way to discuss the Council, or individual members of the Broadcasting Agency Council, and I invite you to approach this debate with extreme responsibility and seriousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32444	I would like to thank the committee's representative, Mr. Bojan Pajtic. Does he want to take part in the debate and the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Ivan Andric? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32445	Dear Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll just give you a few technical data on the material you've received. As you know, the Broadcasting Council was elected, I think, at the end of April of this year, by selecting members of that council. Then, according to the law, eight elected members of the Broadcasting Council proposed the ninth, which, in addition to all other conditions prescribed by law, must meet the condition to live and work in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. When the proposal came from the Council to the Serbian Parliament, the assembly declared itself and the ninth member was elected, making the Broadcasting Council constitutional. Meanwhile, two members of the Council resigned, making remarks at the expense of the election procedure by two members and making one part of the remarks that, I must say, from my point of view, and believe me, I know very well the law, they weren't completely understandable. What we expected last year, when the Law on Broadcasting was adopted and when this House supported the idea of forming an independent body, that it would then manage broadcasting in Serbia by starting to form a strategy of development and broadcasting, then assign frequencies and then worry about how the Broadcasting Law respects itself. We knew that we had entered something that for this country, as well as for countries in the environment, was a big and radical move. The move was radical in that the state, by adopting the Law on Broadcasting, gave up its rights to, say, RTS and the media at all. On the other hand, it was too big a transition from one condition we had to the state we wanted to come to. We expected many resistances and experiences from the countries that did this before us said that resistance to this idea could be expected from all sides. However, I must say that what happened in the state of Serbia did not happen in that extent in other countries. So, given the power, above all in the assignment of frequency and law enforcement and the power of the media, which this advice has, of course, is necessary for its work to be made by experts, for such a body to be independent, but on the other hand it is necessary for such a body to have one undeniable legitimacy in order for such decisions to be taken. Interests are, of course, complicated and it's a lot of money. Anyone who's ever worked on television knows how powerful a tool is and how powerful a tool is. Simply, whenever there are conflicting interests, this kind of campaign can be expected. What was surprising for all of us, however, is that the demands, which appeared from the election day to today, have changed. So, given the public or part of the public, part of the media that responded to the election of Council members, by, of course, warning of a breach of procedures, which I thank them for, and by questioning the truthfulness of the data Mr Radenovic cited in his biography, I consider it positive and what happened to us justifies the existence of a 30-day deadline for the exposure of biography to the public. However, the conditionality of our decisions was such that these requirements changed from Sunday to Sunday. I must say that I am sorry to say that Mr. Vodnelic resigned because it was not scheduled for a session of the Serbian Parliament to discuss it. We, as the most important legislative institution in the country, cannot react quickly and I believe that this is our advantage. So, given all the dilemmas that have been raised in public, and on the other hand, given the integrity of the people to whom we have given their position today, I ask you today to conduct a reasoned debate. In order for someone to be a member of the Council, he doesn't need to be a favorite. So you don't need to agree with one or another television, with one, second or third lobby group. It is necessary to meet the conditions laid down in the law and have the confidence of the MPs. So what we did as a committee and as a parliamentary majority is that we tried to bring the debate, which was being held in public, into the institution. In this regard, we have held a public debate on the Committee on Culture and Information and for this public debate we have called on all those who have set themselves up in the past few months as if they had something to say. They were given the opportunity to say what they had to offer to the MPs in front of the Committee. Of all the things that were said that day, and I think the Committee session was held 10 days ago, we made a big report. The entire report has entered the material you received today. We did all of this by wanting to have an argument here that would be based on the data that was delivered to you, not on what was published in the media, no matter who it was or how it said it. I have to say once again that we've all given everyone a chance to address the Committee. Part of the people didn't take advantage of that opportunity. We delivered their written reports, their conclusions, their demands. However, one large part of our qualified public participated on the Committee and I ask you to consider all this information, that you will make the decision, primarily on the basis of the arguments or what are the facts. I'd like to repeat one more time what the promoter said before me. Although it is essential to vote in favour of these members, although it is procedurally voted on in confidence, it was because it was the only possible way by law. Here it essentially repeats the vote on three members of the Broadcasting Council. We have appreciated the public interest in making these members of the Assembly known again. The assembly, as you know, cannot vote twice on the same decision, but the Legislative Committee has proposed this way of getting out of the existing situation. We are essentially voting again on three members of the Broadcasting Council, given that from the moment they were elected or run, it has been almost 90 days, so three times the required deadline. Their résumés and how they were under the public eye, so all three of them. I think that's all we could do to allow you to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32446	We're moving on to the debate of the president of the parliamentary groups. First came the word of MP Dejan Mihajlov, and then the MP of the people Markovic and eventually the MP Krasic, for the time being.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32447	"What the coat of arms is born of time does not correct," it was recorded in the Montenegrin civil code, and that is one of the things that Valtazar Bogisic tried to bring closer to our citizens at all the difference between rights and injustices, between legality and illegality, between the fact that something that is illegal over time cannot become legal. The illegal election of Vladimir Cvetkovic and Cekic cannot become legal. If we've started this procedure, we can't fix it later. This is not a bonding right known to the conquistance and other forms of zero contracts and everything else becomes in time, if applicable, applicable and valid. It's just, with the Broadcasting Law, there's no game. What you're trying to do today from this session is just play, to strengthen their positions in the Broadcasting Council through the process of resolution, or to legalize what is illegal. It just can't be done. The only thing we can discuss here today, given that the resolution isn't regulated in the way you've set up here and can't be regulated under the law, and that's the decision to put aside the power of choice of these two members of the Broadcasting Council, since they're in one illegal procedure chosen in these places. That, by the way, was found in a report by the Legislative Committee. So, we're not asking for anything but to obey the law and comply with the Legislative Committee's decision, which is said to be against the law. We cannot today through a procedure or a motion for a resolution to legalize their stay in that council. It is your obvious intention that through the story that it has been three months since they were proposed, there are no fundamental objections and that you will simply vote against the resolution to legalize their stay there. It's simply not possible and it's the worst way you're trying to get out of this, I think, very critical situation and crisis situation for the situation in the field of broadcasting. In this way, you will not turn off and will not allow the Broadcasting Council to start working. On the contrary, you will only continue to complicate things, and that advice will still not work. Basically, it might be your interest, so you don't get into an awkward situation to say "BK TV" or "Pinku" that it's going to run out of national frequency. Just stopping through this advice is probably a way to avoid such a difficult decision, since those last days are competing who's going to get under your skin. Okay, that's their thing and the matter of their editorial policy. If we look at it and the fact is, we don't need to talk about it, since that's what the Legislative Committee found out, that they were chosen in a procedure that wasn't legal, that it didn't pass the 30-day deadline in accordance with the law for their choice, and that fact we simply found out. That should be left aside and that's something that's undeniable. That is no longer to be discussed and that is enough argument that they are not sitting where they are sitting and that they are not doing the work they are doing or are likely to work for you. What is the authority of the Council that has been illegally elected? The advice simply has no authority and is completely discredited. It is indisputable and it is easy to look at and hear what others are saying in front of the international community, say Mauricio Masari, who follows the legality of building democratic and legal institutions. What's it said? That these three Council members simply have to leave these places and choose the other three members of the Council. Is it possible to work for the Council, in whose initial composition three members are controversial, not only for formal, but also for essential reasons, and we will talk about this, two members have resigned and another member from Vojvodina is completely contrary to this law to this council, since he is a member of the Social Democrats League's General Committee and will be told about it. So, what kind of advice are we talking about here? Are we talking here about a council that has been chosen in accordance with the law and which has worked in accordance with the law, or are we talking about a council that needs to decide what kind of government wishes or what kind of financial and media lobby in Serbia and in accordance with their interests? So this whole council is completely, in this way and with all the procedures that are being conducted around it, discredited and whether to enter the selection process of the whole council. If, in one council, five members demand that their trust be discussed, or a procedure was initiated for their resolution, some have resigned, and these others are controversial, then there is absolutely no legality or legitimacy to make decisions. Will these decisions be legal? Any decision he makes. Of course not. This decision will fall, each, before the Constitutional Court, because if the Legislative Committee has found that both after and at the time of their election the procedure carried out is not in accordance with the law, and then you try this way to legalise it, so any decision of the Constitutional Court will fail, because it was voted by those members of the councils who were illegally elected. Do you want such advice to remain in force? Yes, you want such advice to remain in force, so that you can manipulate it easier, make decisions that are in the interest of the media-financial lobby in Serbia and behind you. That's what you need to take care of. We warned you that even in the election of members of the council they could not be elected because not all conditions were met in accordance with the law on Cekic and Cvetkovic. You, regardless of the fact, went over it and voted them out, and then, later on, you realized that they weren't chosen according to the law, so you'll probably, in a few months, reassess what we're telling you. It should be said that the biographies we've received are not entirely consistent. For example, Mr Radenovic's biography was missed to say that he worked and was politically engaged, say, in the SSJ campaign, while Zeljko Raznatovic-Arkan led the party. We heard this from Mr Pelevic, who said it was the reasons why he voted for Radenovic, which is not disputed, but we should have known earlier that he participated in the SSJ campaign and that we have that argument when we decide whether Radenovic will be a member of the broadcasting council. This was later obtained, as well as information related to Radenovic, related to his professional education, and later we learned that he had completed a course of management or a one-month, two-month course, and yet it is extremely controversial. Secondly, Mr Radenovic will be told more about MPs from Kosovo, Dragan Lazic and Dragisa Djokovic, and they will bring out a number of facts starting with that that Mr Radenovic, and this is seen from his card, was employed at Pink, Pink International companies, Goran Radenovic, manager; so there are other things that suggest that there are too many arguments that Goran Radenovic can be voted on at all, or not to vote, as well as for these other members of the council. For example, you didn't know that Vladimir Cvetkovic was on the Radio Index programme council the whole time Nenad Cekic was the editor-in-chief, i.e. acting director and director. Did you also know if you looked in the court register and see who's being run as Director of the Radio Index? Here, on the day he was nominated as a member of the broadcasting council, we looked at it, and the court register says he's the acting director and editor-in-chief of the Radio Index. We are not talking here about the rights he has passed on, the founding rights he has passed on, the fact, unsterilely to a certain Mr. Mihajlovic. We're not talking about rights. I'm talking about whether he's an executive or not, and whether he was at the time of running for council member or not. Those documents aren't in the files we got from the board's session, because nobody asked for it, nobody was looking at it. Now you can look at it and you can ask Mr. Kljajevic to deliver it to you and see, if deleted, when deleted and that he is no longer acting as Director of Radio Index, if the entry is deleted. We have information that he was still on April 8th, in addition to the fact that he freely transferred the second person to the founding role, i.e. the right of the company set up by Radio Index. You can see, if you can pass on something to someone who's stupid, it's one more fact where we can see that one has pure intentions. If we take Vladimir Cvetkovic, and unfortunately we haven't had the opportunity, given that Vladimir Cvetkovic was proposed the day he was elected, but I will read you only one copy of his article, as he co-operates with the magazine New Political Thought, "National Identity and Reconstruction of Institutions in Serbia and Ideology on Media Education". What does Mr. Cvetkovic say? "Part of the media gathered around the famous phantom organization AEM, i.e. private, social or whatever companies, known as B92, more precisely, about a few of its leaders who simultaneously perform countless different functions in an undefined triangle between radio, television and network, strive to achieve a new kind of monopoly, while maintaining the halo and the privilege of independence, read the donations. Thus, on the one hand, they would continue to fight for civil society, while on the other hand, fully in line with policy and mentality, on the basis of first-party merits, they would create new state, regimeal benefits in the form of an unfettered broadcast in the entire state space, delayed tax payment and so on. The amount of their influence against foreign donors, whose absolute favorites are, is in reverse proportional to the real effects, i.e. Influence in domestic public opinion. "...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32448	Does the MP want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32449	Yeah. This is what Mr Cvetkovic said, more specifically, in the article New Political Minds, and is that enough to qualify him, i.e. disqualify him to be a member of the Broadcasting Council, which should work independently, or without any influence and without previously formed views. If someone says this about a large group of media in Serbia, and this is the whole AEM network, there is TV B92 and many others, whether it qualify or disqualifies him to be a member of the Broadcasting Council. These are questions that, unfortunately, we have not received answers on the board, and we are now asking you questions, and these are all facts that you can get to know, these are things that are completely undeniable and well-known to the public. They should have had a chance to move out. Unfortunately, we couldn't bring it up when we discussed the members of the Broadcasting Council, during the first debate on Cekic and Cvetkovic, because then we heard their biographies a few hours before the vote and couldn't get to know each other and see and consult people, to find out whether or not there are elements to be members of the Broadcasting Council. Based on what we've received so far, according to this information, it's almost impossible for them to be members of the Broadcasting Council, given that there are a lot of things that, as such, disqualify them. I simply do not see that there are other options, but that we here today make a decision on their or the voting day, to make a decision on their resolution and to enter the election process, not only these three members of the Council, plus those of the two who resigned, and since the third member of the Council announced that he would probably resign, Professor Radojkovic. We will have a Council that is completely decapitated, a large number of original members of the council have resigned or cannot be in the Council at all. So we need to go to a whole new council procedure. If you decide to vote against resolution or various political games, some of you come out of the O.R. when you vote on resolution, so it's not enough to resolve these three council members, we'll stay where we are, only the tensions will be even bigger and the problems we have even bigger. It's something that, if it's good for you, is bad for the state. You will not contribute to the functioning of the Broadcasting Council at all, or you will not contribute to the implementation of this law. The tensions that exist, the misunderstandings, and after what I read that Cvetkovic wrote, an open enmity to certain media, will remain and will be even greater if they remain members of the Broadcasting Council. Do you want such a Broadcasting Council, which will not be able to function and will function according to the media-financial lobby dictatorship, which will decide who will get the frequencies and who will do what in Serbia. Do you want such advice? We'll see from the vote. We will vote that all members of the Broadcasting Council are resolved, that they simply can't be and we will insist later, and through the Committee on Culture and Information that the entire Council enters the election process, because this advice cannot function and has no authority needed in such a responsible business. If you take objections from both the OSCE and other international organisations, journalists without borders, everyone else, you will see that they have asked equally for these three members of the Council to be resolved and to proceed in the election process of almost the entire Council, because this broadcasting body that controls, or the control body in all countries along with the different modes is independent and not burdened with ballast of the past. Taking into account also the fact that the composition of the Broadcasting Council, when this law was passed last year, was about July of last year, when MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia did not participate in Parliament's work, changed in relation to the composition that it was and which relied on when talks with NGOs and media representatives existed, that this composition was changed in favour of the government. You now have that the government has a control package over the Broadcasting Council. The question also arises whether the entire composition of the Broadcasting Council should be changed, thus preventing the government from having a control package, i.e. having most members of the Council when representatives are taken. I will remind you that in those texts of the Bills, which were supported by NGOs, there were no other legislators, but everything was regulated differently. With this kind of dating, some aspirations to separate and make an artificial separation in Serbia, you have done something contrary to international standards. There is no government control package in one control body, which should be the Broadcasting Council, and therefore DSS MPs will definitely consider amending this law in the direction that the control package loses power. We think that's how we're going to contribute to the independence of the media. These are objections, not formal, because they are undeniable, essential objections to the possibility of membership of these persons in the Broadcasting Council, without intent to undermine their professional reputation which is undeniable, but simply, is one of the professional reputations and honors they have, and the other is the possibility that with advanced political attitudes and relations to individual media and with more than serious relationships with individual media that are not broken, they are members of this broadcasting council, and that is something that disqualifies them from being members of this regulatory body called the Broadcasting Council. The Democratic Party of Serbia will certainly support the resolution of all members of the Broadcasting Council and the election process of the new council, and in particular we will vote in favour of the resolution of these three members of the Broadcasting Council, thereby contributing to the process and functioning of this council from a dead end, because we have been dealing with not substance for several months, which should be dealt with by the Broadcasting Council and the affairs established by the law, but rather with whether the council is legal or not, whether it is legitimate or not. If these members of the Council remain, they will not be lawful or legitimate, and therefore the decisions they make will be illegal and non-lympic, and they will not be able to carry them out; they will fall before the Constitutional Court, and you will take this responsibility upon yourselves. It remains that, after all the warnings, leave these three members of the Broadcasting Council where they are and thus say that the militia is a financial-media lobby than the law and state, but it is up to you and everyone brings the fate of their political action.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32450	The People's MP Ivan Andric has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32451	I'm going to use the right to replicate, simply wanting to symbolically point to what we're proposing today's session and I've been trying to point out and use your good will to do something like that. It's a campaign that doesn't have any support in any way. The gentleman mentioned two things that are not true. The first thing is that we never considered Mr. Cekic's conflict of interest. So it's just such a lie that it's pointless to defend yourself. Even before Mr Cekic was elected a member of the Council, AIM provided us with a letter mentioning the possibility of conflicts of interest. We sent this letter to the competent state authorities and received the answer that it was not true. Afterwards, the report that stands before us states that there is no evidence of this claim. I hope you have before you this report that the board delivered to you. It's about pages 18, 19, 20, 21, 22. I'll read it now. "A trade court in Belgrade, as a competent court, at the request of Nenad Cekic, confirms that he can use the court's papers as evidence." Solution: "Nenad Cekic, Belgrade, is approved using data from the winding-up director's report to prove there is no conflict of interest within the meaning of Article 25. The Law on Broadcasting." Page 21. "Nenad Cekic performed the stated duty until 17. 01. 1998." Thank you. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the scene: This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32452	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32453	Chairman, I find MP Andric offensively expressed himself when he said I was lying. I never mentioned that he's lying, I just mentioned that what I'm saying is not a lie, but it's true and it needs to be looked at to the end of the data. It's one entry requested on the basis of demands when it was tried to clean up the radio-index, so you have one other decision that puts that decision out of force, so you can see exactly how things are going. I think you should have warned the MP to watch how it is expressed in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32454	It was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure again, since you used the right to replication. Otherwise, the MP publicly apologized to you, and I don't think there was any breach of the Rules of Procedure at all. Next time, I'll take measures. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group, and then by MP Krasic, and by National MP Natasa Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32455	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, do you allow me a replica of Mr. Michael's statement at the pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32456	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32457	Mr. Mihajlov, most of all from the DSS suits you this way, because you're in the media all the time, and in some media, they're against these members who are proposed for the Broadcasting Council. Maybe you want Ljiljana Nedeljkovic to be a candidate. Offer Ljiljana Nedeljkovic. That the Serbian Unity Party voted for Mr Radenovic does not harm the citizens of Serbia, unlike you, what you voted for in this room and what damage your president and your party in Serbia have done. Mr. Michael, you said the Hague was your last hole in the game, so you sent all the Serbs to The Hague and voted for the law in the Federal Assembly. What difference does it make if Serbs are delivered by law or without law to The Hague, Mr. Mihajlov; so your president called on Serbs to go to the elections, in Kosovo and Metohija, and your Vice President Marko Jaksic urged Serbs not to go to elections, be careful, so what demagogue, Mr. Mihajlov; so you let your president amnestize 1,900 Shipara from Serbian prisons, and none of the Serbs got out of Albanian prisons, sir; so you voted for a Rules of Procedure that is harmful to Mr. Mihajlov and to you. Well, sir, I'm just asking you to hear something, ladies and gentlemen, do you know your name? You DSS think there's something you can do about learning and noise, in demagogue, so listen to me. You don't know your name. Look, journalists say in the media like this -- yesterday the opposition said that and that, DOS that and DSS -- so where you're in the group, what you are, whether you're opposition or position, so you don't know what your name is. You're in charge of the country, Mr. Mihaylov, here in this room, you voted in favour of guaranteeing that the Serbian people would, and also in the Federal Assembly 15 days ago, vote for it. Your president voted in favour of Serbia-Montenegro, signed the Belgrade Agreement, and then voted against the law, i.e. against the Constitutional Charter. Well, wait, do you know what you want and what you don't want? ...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32458	People's MP, I'm warning you of time overruns, since this was a replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32459	You personally told me, here in the O.R. ten days ago, let's take out the cards, there was a vote on some law, we took out the SS, and your cards stay in the MPs' units. I'm saying -- what is this, he says -- now I've been told. Come on, let him let you know in time once, five days, ten days before, so you know what you're going to do, how it's all coming to you right now. And don't call the Soviets, we said, "Let's get out of the room, let the opposition out of the room, get DOSs to introduce TV broadcasts, neither are you being forced, nor are you being guided." You'd like to go out, but you're standing here by the door to be photographed by cameras, so it can't be that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32460	I'm warning you of overstepping allowed time for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32461	Thank you. Coming through, this was a replica, going to the agenda, thank you. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32462	And you'll have three minutes longer if you want to talk, since you were distracted at the time of the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32463	Thank you. As far as the Radiodifuse Council and these agenda points are concerned, we from the Soviet Union would prefer to discuss today the price of cereals, Serbs from Cosmeta, workers who lost their jobs, but you have a majority in this room and we have to say what the position of the Soviet Union is. If eight members proposed the ninth member, Radenovic and the Assembly voted him by 176 votes, why would it be back in the process. So 176 MPs, both from the DOS and from the opposition, voted in favour of the disputed member Radenovic. If Radenovic didn't give the right biography, if he was lying, it should be the court, the SUP, not that this assembly is dealing with these things, and I don't think we can decide whether he has a degree or not, it's someone else who needs to check it out. This committee hasn't even started work yet, and I liked those people when they said they wouldn't accept any pressure, either by the government or by some political party, that they would do as it says in the Broadcasting Law. These people haven't even started working yet, and someone says they don't like these people, I guess, because they haven't proposed any of their candidates. It doesn't matter to us from the Soviet Union. We're not proposing, and whether it's Pera, Mika or Zika, we want that law to be implemented as soon as possible, because now there's fear in the media, it's right for someone. The media must not have an objective picture of what is happening in Serbia, because they do not know if they will get a certain frequency tomorrow and there is a media block when it comes to the SSJ, the SPS and other opposition parties, that we cannot appear and say what we think and that is why we want this advice to start working as soon as possible, in the hope that they will respect the law and that all media dealing with the information program must do as prescribed in the law. The work of certain Belgrade electronic media may have contributed to our discussion today on this subject. Look, these media have a certain interest, I'm not going to say what the media is, some are funding from abroad, and we know what kind of picture they show about Serbia. What bothers me the most is that yesterday I watched, or the day before, that Serbs are the biggest culprits for the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as Serbs killed all Muslims and Serbs have the greatest responsibility. On the other hand, I could never see on that television what was happening to Serbs in both BiH, Croatia and Kosovo and Metohija. I also think that these media may be in line with this current situation in Serbia. We from the Soviet Union will vote for these proposed members, because they haven't started working yet. If they don't respect the Broadcasting Law, then we need to raise our voice and raise our voice to change them, not just them, but everyone else. We felt that today we should discuss two members who resigned, ladies and gentlemen, and that the new two members should be elected, not to discuss some members who were legitimately elected, here in this room. So that was supposed to be our theme today. If the procedure is not respected, let the Constitutional Court of Serbia do so, as it has done so far. More than once, the constitutional court has done damage to the Soviets, but come on, let them decide on it, not that this assembly is dealing with affairs, that those who do not even know whether they are opposition or position, want in this way indirectly to show themselves in public that they care about Serbia and the Serbian people, that is not true. Therefore, the Soviet Union will vote again for these proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32464	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Messenger of the People, Dejan Mihalov. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, as president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32465	I believe that by holding the session, the President of the Assembly has injured the Rules of Procedure, because it cannot be given at the same time in one part of the joined right to a replica for which there was no basis, by the way, because it is not in the negative context mentioned by the SSJ, nor Dragan Markovic - Palma or anyone else. If they're ashamed of what Goran Radenovic was doing for them, then it's a negative context, but I couldn't see it. The President of the Assembly hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving a word to Mr Palma on the basis of a replica, although he had no right to do so, one. Two, I think, that's another injury, that you can't combine the right to replica with exposure, because it doesn't stand anywhere. So Mr. Palma had to go and sit down in the bench and answer the phone, not in the function of the DOS subpar is a bunch of lies here. I'm asking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, given that he spoke for one 10-minute period, to allow me the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32466	You do not have the right to a replica, you abuse the Rules of Procedure, because in order to guide what you think is in the Rules of Procedure, no member stands anywhere, except as discretionary authority of the chairman of the Assembly to permit a replica. The failure of the replica is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, as it is not a giving of replicas. So you have abused the Rules of Procedure and you are referring to facts that do not stand in the Rules of Procedure. That's an explanation for your eloquent injury. Do you have a desire to commit another kind of injury? (Dejan Michael, from the scene: to answer my second injury.) Can we or can't we combine the discussion? ) What is the discretionary authority of the chairman is to give a replica at the discretion of whether the replica is founded and the replica can be given at the moment when the chairman assesses that it is necessary. Therefore, the president of the National Assembly acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you are throwing out of the bench. I asked you if you wanted a new provision. This congregation serves all MPs, not just those who feel that they should play with the procedure, because it is fun or that they think they are skilled at it. The president of the National Assembly did not harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Now you have a new injury. Here you go. MP Dejan Mihajlov, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32467	You're saying she doesn't have the authority and everything else, of course she does. Article 28 says - The president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly as it stands. I don't think Natasa Micic took care of herself, because there is no authority anywhere to connect the debates in the replica and in principle, and you say it's her discretionary right. Of course, discretion is the right to let her loved ones out of order and without a basis, you have not answered that remark - whether the injured Rules of Procedure has been injured by the merger of the debate by the replica and the debate to which the president of the parliamentary group has the right of 10 minutes. So these are different things. If this debate is allowed to be merged, then I have the right to reply to Mr. Markovic's statement, given that this exposure lasted 10 minutes and I have the right to reply as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32468	You have no right to a replica and no injured Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 84(2), I would like to point out that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is pronounced in relation to the written member, not to something which is parliamentary practice or not. So, when and if your pledge is amended by the Rules of Procedure, in which there is a provision that it cannot be chaired in such a way as to act, then you can express an injury to such a member. Now you can't. You do not have the right to reply and the president of the National Assembly has not injured the Rules of Procedure in any of the proceedings while chairing the assembly, during the presentation of MP Dragan Markovic, president of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the place: Answer me how to combine the debate by the replica? I give you a warning to speak from the scene. You can't take it anymore, you've used it all. I'm the one who answered your question. I give my first warning to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Dejan Michael, now utters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32469	I believe that you hurt the Rules of Procedure by giving me a warning because I insisted that you answer the question - is there any possibility in the Rules of Procedure that a debate can be brought together by the replica and debate in principle? You are on my insistence, and I have the right to ask from the place to determine whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured and to make that clear, as has been the case so far, have given me a warning. I think that's why you hurt Article 101. Rules of Procedure, which state the reasons for which the reminder is made. You are to my insistence, to answer my question - whether a debate can be combined in principle with a replica, to last for more than three minutes, to utter a warning. The debate lasted 10 minutes, so that's where the merger happened, even though there's no possibility. I was looking for a replica on that basis, and you gave me a warning because I asked you to plead with me about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think that in this way you are extremely tenant and irresponsiblely leading this assembly, with the intention of favouring Dragan Markovic - Palm as your spokesman.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32470	I gave you a notice under Article 101, based on Article 101. 99-101, where you are described rules on the behaviour of the MPs, with two previously given warnings about the benching, which is unacceptable, and that was and there was also a way to implement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32471	The Serbian Radical Party follows that initial stance, when it was on the agenda of the bill, we did not vote for the law. A month, two, three, April of the month, we were also against the decision to elect members of the Broadcasting Council and we cited a number of reasons why we do not want to participate in this game. Instead of being denied by the proposings and the assembly majority, they today, unfortunately, just confirm that everything we have said is true and that the point is affected by the scenario - how to extend this topic as long as possible and do not go into some, called rights, media, economic and political interests. At the beginning of this session, we indicated, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, that the conditions of the Rules of Procedure were not met to include this in the agenda. Of course, the president of the National Assembly said -- no injuries -- but the proposer's representative, Mr Pajtic, came out here and said -- three points, three resolutions, three strips, special ones, are placed in one item of the agenda, three decisions, and when you look at it, no formal-legal conditions are met that these decisions are on the agenda. That's what most people solve by card principle. What's the result of this accident? The result is that according to the Law on Broadcasting for the resolution of these three members, it is necessary for most of the total number of MPs to vote. Probably not gonna get that number here. It can be achieved at Radenovic's, but for the first two, it's hard to achieve it, because the promoter has made one prank here. For that to be understood, I would just point out one example -- what would happen if the Government of the Republic of Serbia were a legislator of some law, there was a debate on that bill and they said -- we withdraw that law, we just gave that law to hear your opinion. No condition has been met for this to be found on the agenda. Please, if you look at the letter sent by the Council, you will see that the letter states that they are asking for the President of the National Assembly, in a legally valid manner, to once again declare the status of three members of the Council. We don't have that authority. By law, the Council may request a member's discharge, but it can't ask us to make a statement, so to speak, they're asking for it because the DSS has proposed putting it out of force. So we don't have an initial resolution act at all. Since there is no initial resolution act, all of these provisions of Article 29(2) which say that a reasoned motion for resolution is needed, to establish all relevant circumstances and to allow members whose resolution is required to be made known. This is where a complete papaziania was made. Without a motion for resolution, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Information, was declared, and these members accused each other, justified and who knows what they were doing. We can't discuss this at all today. Of course, and whoever suggested a decision like this, in an explanation, says, I'm not asking him to get rid of it, I'm asking to talk about it. I guess after that story and because you can't vote the decision, they'll be legal, legitimate. What are they supposed to do? They'd have to justify those 680 million from the budget, separate from the RTS. Why pay me more RTS when he doesn't want to report to the public what we're doing here. What's the task of that broadcasting council? It's probably until it's suddenly held to this undefined state and seen, in this account of the media, some of the economic and political interests of the lobby behind the individual media, who's going to get the right frequency and legally establish their own monopoly. That's why there's a mix-up, so there's a riot inside this broadcasting council. In fact, although the law was passed a year ago and two and a half months ago by these members, we have no advice, the law is not applied and we still have chaos on that media market. But it's an interest. Whose? Most, the interest of the one who has proposed a decision in order to establish only some discussion and then create some conclusion, that because there is no vote, they are full, full and able to work. Besides, two members resigned. I don't know if any of us got those resignations. If resignations have been made, then we should, if we stick to the letter of the law, conduct the election procedure for these new two members. I get the impression here that these resignations are media releases, they might be standing in the Assembly, but they're not being released, because apparently, this is waiting, if it's possible to reconcile the horns in the bag, so it's going to be done -- this is going to be this interested group, this is going to be the second interested group. Imagine what we're talking about. We're looking at some biographies here. The two candidates are almost racing in who contributed more to October 5th, and even this first Cekic says - I was a pirate, a radio pirate, without permission. He'll work tomorrow without permission. Why would he be bound by a new law? You see, he's not bound by anything, absolutely nothing. He's a professor of some ethics and he's holding on to some ethics, telling us some of his ethics. There are people in the congregation who have worked with him since the first Index, when they broke up B92, etc. All the same people are spinning. Lobby is strong, it's big funds, it's about preparing for the upcoming elections. There's a public-speaker thing going on. This is an extended state of emergency. In the new elections, media should be afraid not to release information about opposition parties' activities. Everything that's in an emergency session today and tomorrow only has that function of stopping the public word, criticizing how to preserve power. The SRS doesn't want any part of it. We told you this would happen. The same will happen to you with the Lustration Commission, the exact same thing. There'll be a lustration of chandeliers. Here's the expropriation of the expropriator. Independent media, their free associations, you treat them like some institutions. It's not institutions, it's exposures, it's called independent media, which at the time of the most severe economic crisis and blockades abroad received funds and formed informative texts in our country. It's impossible, illogical -- misery and poverty, and the media is growing, creating. So is "Today," so is "Blic," so is this new "Kosha," so is "B92". Look at Pink. Is there any other party that this Pink won't serve? He will serve everyone, only to preserve his media empire. In that DOS-Manley argument of yours, we don't want to participate. We don't want to put ourselves on either side. It is our wish, as a political party, that the sooner you question the election and that you, by the will of the people, both the second and the third, leave in the package as soon as possible. Remember, your minister, as you like to say, for traffic and connections a few days ago, she said, "Well, it's not that important to the media, or to that ether, there's a digital record, so maybe it's pointless that we talk so much about the Broadcasting Council." Remember that message. In all possible ways, the opposition will be prevented, the public word for the next election is prevented, in order to preserve this or another, but again DOS-Mali rule. That's why we don't want any part of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32472	Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32473	The Honored Presidency, honourable colleagues and colleagues, on a proposal from the MPs and on the recommendation of the Legislative Committee and the decision of the Committee on Culture and Information, today we are discussing the resolution of three members of the Broadcasting Council. The selection of members of the Broadcasting Council and the tensions that occurred on that occasion, which last from the final appointment of all nine members, are also based on tensions or conflict of discussion, public debate and adoption of the Law on Broadcasting. To remind you, for more than a year it was a law on broadcasting, no matter what for the first time, if I'm not mistaken, we had a working group made up of experts and representatives of the press and media esnaf. Nine versions of the law were made, nine and a half versions were adopted a year ago, if I'm not mistaken, on July 11th or 12th last year. For a year, regardless of what has entered into force, we do not apply the Law, or the Law does not do what is provided for it, because the body implementing the Law - the Broadcasting Council does not actually exist. The Committee on Culture and Information, with full responsibility in its own time, when we decided, before the election of members of the Broadcasting Council, made a decision that was in accordance with both the Law and the Rules of Procedure, namely the decision to make two proposals - Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Cekic, to decide on them for 30 days and to wait 30 days for these proposals to be made in public. We, the Parliament and the People's MPs, have violated the procedure. This must be clearly said and this was made clear last Friday at an open debate of the Committee on Culture and Information. You have this material and you read a stenogram and statements, or debate of all the participants in this debate. We need to be aware that we have violated the procedure and that if this body, if it wants to preserve its integrity or to acquire the true identity of the highest legislative authority, has to repeat the procedure. More than that and less than that is all this noisy controversy. I'm afraid we don't actually hear thoughts from a lot of screams. Let's leave this rhetoric and go back to what is our obligation, which is to respect the law that we ourselves have brought. If we don't, we're going to continue to have agony over the failure of the broadcasting council and we're going to have agony about a very important, systemically important area, which is the frequency or assignment of national frequencies in accordance with the Broadcasting Law. If we do not continue to do so, we will continue to provide the basis and material not only to the public, but also to the professional institutions, and to the international institutions involved in this area, to show open suspicion of the legality of the one who passed these laws, which is the Serbian Parliament and the MPs. There's been a few bad things, really bad things. First of all, we did not respect the procedure, and then we put the people we proposed and proposed by the authorised promoters in a position to be attacked, to be the culprits of the affair, neither guilty nor in debt. It's really ugly that we disrespected Mr. Cekic and Mr. Cvetkovic. That later, as the Council, they proposed Mr Radenovic, whose membership has been disputed in a certain way, and whether it is disputed, already more at the end of all discussions and file submissions, I must admit, I am not sure whether it is disputed or whether all those who have proposed this man are disputed. I guess this is different. It is likely that they are contentious, because they have not taken their role responsibly enough and that they are still the controversial MPs, we, who have agreed not to respect the procedure that we have decided about ourselves. What's the suggestion? The proposal is to resolve three and thus stand in writing, three members of the Broadcasting Council. What are we going to do with those who will act in this act themselves according to their resignations? What we're going to do with maybe new resignations and the question is, at the end of the summer, are we ever going to have a radio-distributive advice? The SDP Group's proposal is to stop at the ball, get all serious and see how, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, we can repeat the procedure. Let me remind you, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, my colleagues Kovacevic and I voted for the procedure to be repeated. Later in the record, I saw that only fellow Kovacevic stood up for it, so I will now underline, very much on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, that the procedure for the election of the Radiodifuse Council is repeated, so that this body, in accordance with the law, the highest body in the field of broadcasting, has legitimacy, credibility and that we finally apply the law. Individual interests, position and opposition interests, political groups, are entirely legitimate if they comply with the law. They are not legitimate if the provisions of that law fail. Personally, as a MP, I cannot allow us to enter the farce anymore and fail the decisions that we ourselves have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32474	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32475	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I must honestly say that I expected today from Mr Pajtic and Mr Andric that both at the beginning of their presentations say something about our MP, Joce Arsic. First, to thank him for first mentioning that the provisions of the Law on how to elect members of the Broadcasting Council were broken, they should thank him immediately afterwards for seeking his responsibility, because Joca Arsic is the only one responsible for this situation in which we are. Everyone else is spraying their heads with ash, like -- yeah, we voted, but that's not true. If you voted, then you have no moral credibility. If you supported it, then you can't support it again. If you've done something, then it would be fair at least for this speaker to say, we can't be you, but to see who the others are. I mention to Joco Arsic for the simple reason that one ten or fifteen days after it was in the National Assembly, when those who have a particular interest in selecting members of the Broadcasting Council came forward, then the story of the Broadcasting Council, the members, whether they meet the conditions, whether the law is respected and so on. Then came the story of who's legally valid, good, who's not and why isn't. Part of the story, interesting, but he also mentioned one of the people mentioned today in this report, Mr. Cekic, whose choice we were not, but in this case it doesn't matter and he cited a dozen things that, if it were fortunate, Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Andric should tell us today about something. Whoever was reading the report and Mr. Cekic's speech would have to ask himself a question logically, for God's sakes, if all this was possible. Definitely, this is about a conflict of interest, and only when it was seen that the choice, this one as it is, is not responding to certain groups that apparently wanted to go beyond those frequencies, whose allocation is expected in the future, to significantly increase their financial power and then each other. Then the whole story started. In fact, there's been so much said about lobbys, about finances, about abroad, about the allocation of money, about lobbying, about minor cells, about what they're saying, that it was the right thing to say about it today. I mention this for the reason that this committee has concluded one thing, and we of the proposings today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the basis for the debate have something else entirely different. The Committee, here I quote Mr Andric, who was chairman of the Committee, concluded "to discuss the application of the Law on Broadcasting and the election of members of the Council". So, application and choice. When looking at the proposal, or the agenda point, it is said - proposals for the resolution of members of the Council. Where is this about the application of the Law on Broadcasting and where is this about selecting members of the Council? We here today have one complete piece of shit, an incomplete proposal, and that's the debate we're having. We have three members that are mentioned, disputed on various sides, so they Solomonically proposed to the Assembly to find a way to declare their status, but we have two who resigned. One, at least here is accused of conflict of interest, Mr. Vodnelic, of his daughter working at RTS. The woman's for lustration. We'll do it later this afternoon. It would be a turn if one of the Committee's members made a statement about it, even if it said whether or not it was true, whether it was the right reason to resign and what is the essence of today's debate, whether we're discussing it today, the order, to say tomorrow that no initiative to resolve members has passed, these two are of no interest to us at all, because if we were interested today, we would have some proposal on their choice and continue as they were. Whoever's got the media, who doesn't, doesn't. I must remind myself that Mr Arsic, again mentioning him, at one of the National Assembly sessions, and before that on the Committee, has advertised that the provisions of the Law on Broadcasting, which, in Article 24 of Section 12, prescribe the obligation of the National Assembly to get to know the public appropriately with the biographies of the proposed candidates and so forth. That's when it was completely ignored. If we had followed that proposal then some two other people would have been a proposal for members of the Council, so probably some other two people would have been elected and then there would be no basis for this story today. There is another dimension around Mr. Radenovic. The council doesn't work and it won't work like this. The council was elected two or three months ago and has the Council done anything yet? He didn't do anything. The only thing they held in a few sessions was that they went on and on and on about each other, so I wouldn't use any other expressions, and they told each other all sorts of things. Part of that is seen in this report by the Committee on Culture and the Council has not come to life. The consequences are catastrophic. The consequences for Serbia, the consequences for the media, the consequences for the citizens, the consequences for the political parties. I am becoming more and more impressed that simply the congregation’s majority is not in the interest of the Council being settled and working, because if it was settled and started to work, then it would have to do what the law prescribed. They obviously don't want it, and now some story's reopening, after a few months and it won't end, we won't be choosing two members of the Council. Meanwhile, media and financial tycoons do what they do, they don't have frequencies, but they run their policies. We've seen how. Certain political parties are maximum and recklessly advertised. The political parties represented in parliament are not represented in public. Where you will be more disgraced than we have today in Serbia, when it comes to the media sphere and law enforcement. We should have talked about law enforcement. There are crocodile tears here about the fate of RTS, crocodile tears, for the simple reason that everyone knows, until the Council is settled, until it starts working, there will be no other questions about RTS, and crocodile tears for the simple reason it's DOS, and you remember yourself, it abolished that subscription as the only source of income, so he introduced it, and it extends the application. Meanwhile, television is sinking, and only similar people are chosen in the meantime. Just so you know, TV was about envelopes assigned to editors, certain amounts of money. That's the story amongst the press. So it's not a story about the government, it's also a story about television, unfortunately. I say, unfortunately, for the simple reason that one is spoken, and the other is done in reality. Similar ones should be rewarded. That's one dimension of the RTS situation. The second is that you don't know what television is really doing. Television, unfortunately, has turned into a service of government interest and DOS group, as there is no room for others there. It is bad that the Council has not been established, nor will it be today, after this debate. It's bad, too, to see that the OSCE has also directly involved its fingers in this matter, and besides the famous principles and rules of conduct of diplomatic officials. We have a case for the OSCE representative, Masari, publicly speaking, to be chosen. Who's Mr. Masari? Let him do his job. If he's already giving, and DOS is listening, then let's finish this story properly. Now, we have one completely abnormal situation, that we have a law on broadcasting that we should implement and that we have advice that is chosen and should work, but it doesn't work, and that certain groups and media lobbys are constantly raising the issue of the similarity of individual members, and in the meantime, it obviously suits all of them. As things stand, this will take time until the elections, will, will and will last until the elections and will simply be the political parties of DOS, and their speakers who assist them, will be presented to the media, and the others as they are. We can see that other members are starting to dispute. The other night, on one of the TVs, we heard, a member is being challenged in Vojvodina. Imagine the paradox, one of the people who made the statements on TV, they say, yes, it's all right, it's elected by law, but you know, it's not who we wanted. It's the essence of things. Thus, those who were to be elected were not chosen and the Law and the Assembly did not serve as a legal framework for this. Since it isn't, I think this debate today is just one empty story, no meaning, and it will be without content. Well, nothing new is going to happen, and we're going to figure out the current state, the current state, and there's still going to be this media control carried out by the government and the DOS...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32476	Are you using the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32477	We socialists won't be involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32478	Does anyone else want a word from the president, the deputy or the authorised president of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to reports for a word in a single debate on decisions to resolve members of the broadcasting agency's council. The first registered speaker is MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Vukosav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32479	Ladies and gentlemen, we could really make an effort to bring this thing down and get out of this problem in the only possible way. It is no harm to admit that in the election of two members, Mr Cekic and Cvetkovic, we, the Assembly, have indeed made a huge procedural mistake. I don't remember who chaired it, whether Mrs. Micic or Mrs. Comic should say nicely: we have made a mistake and we have made that decision to undo it. There is no solution, but we are canceling the election decision of these three members of the broadcasting council. Two, because the biographies aren't complete, etc. And not to repeat the whole thing, and one because we didn't have the wrong information, whether it lives here or there, whether it's this school or that school, whether it works for this one or that one, it's all been unclear. The cleanest situation is that we simply cancel our congregation decision and make a reelection. But it's not just the three of them. We have two resignations. What surprised me about Professor Vodinelic, not only is he a lawyer, but a professor of law school, that he agreed to be a candidate, even though he knew by law he had no right to do so. Later we found out that Mrs Milivojevic has or doesn't have an agency, whether she's working with some media or not, there's talk about it, and we don't know. Today I hear that Cvetkovic published an article against some media, so how can he be objective in that advice, if a Priory has a strange relationship without speaking hostilely to some media, etc. Gentlemen, I still believe that nine people, qualified, honest, honest, objective, mature people of moral integrity, who can be members of the council, can be found in Serbia. So it's not enough what we're doing today. The choice of the whole council should be completely annulled, then re-competition re-competition. Some people, probably the same, say Vladik Porphyria and others, will probably be elected, and perhaps even Cvetkovic and Cekic, although I hear today that Cekic may still be one of the directors in the Index, etc. Can we find nine people whose biographies here will be so presented that the MP doesn't question the data at all? Pure biographies, do so and do so, have completed those schools, such and such qualifications. We MPs vote, and we don't think about whether your data is correct. That's what we're supposed to do here, not listen to all kinds of stories and argue. Undoing the election for advice and re-election is the only correct solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32480	The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word. After him, the Messenger of the people Peter Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32481	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is how the initiator of today's debate is naked. So, the proposaler's intention is to hold a debate over the debate, to eventually provide the majority in this room to confirm a decision on the selection of these three people at the Broadcasting Agency Council, although it is clear to all of us that the previous decisions are not legally valid. The essence is the ruling majority's intention in this assembly and Serbia's authorities not to change anything in the area of broadcasting. The key is the intention not to apply the Law on Broadcasting, which the government in Serbia has brought reluctantly, under pressure from European institutions, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, as one of the key conditions for the country's entry into the Council of Europe. Last July, gentlemen, in a few days, on July 19th last year, this law was passed, in this hall here, without the presence of DSS MPs, but was brought past the will of the ruling majority in Serbia and with a clear intention that its practical application would not take place in the term of the government. The result of this and such intent is what we have on the broadcasting council, and that is primarily the fact that the broadcasting council has not started to function until today, so on July 14, 2003, and it will not begin to work for God to ask how many more months, although under this law it was due to start working on October 27th last year. So, on 27 October last year, the broadcasting council had to take over broadcasting and electronic media in Serbia in its own hands. It will not happen a year after that, and it is quite certain, it will not happen in the mandate of the government in Serbia. The government in Serbia, when it comes to electronic media, has two plans. One is that the current situation, where the law is not applied, is kept for as long as possible, to put pressure on the media commissioners from the government's office and keep the media under control. The backup plan is: if under the pressure of the local public, opposition and international factors it must start applying this law - then to secure its majority in the Council, so that it can regain control of electronic media through the control of the Council. To that end last year, when the law was passed, what was the essence, a guideline of eight versions of this law, and what no one disputed in eight public debates. It is a Council of 15 people, in which most members are proposing a civil sector and in which it is impossible to establish a dominant government structure. With the night ending of such an idea in this advice of nine members, in which it is theoretically and practically possible for the government, however it is, to establish its majority, this law is completely unthinkable. So now we've come into a situation where it's possible to apply this backup plan, to get our people into this council, and then they're going to allow us, or to continue what we now have until the law applies. It's clear and I don't think there's any need to prove it to anyone in Serbia. It is also quite clear that it is not possible to do this thing legally, as the promoter is asking today, so get rid of these people. The conditions for their resolution have not been met, but they have also obtained conditions for what the DSS offered to this assembly a few months ago, which is putting aside the decision on the election of Cekic and Cvetkovic and repealing Radenovic's election decision. There are absolutely clear things and there is no need to be a great legal expert and expert in order to understand that. Please, it is quite clear, and this is confirmed by the Legislative Committee of this Assembly, that Cekic and Cvetkovic were not elected under the law of the established procedure. It's true that they didn't contribute. It's not their fault, but in a legal sense it doesn't change things. They weren't chosen by procedure and can't be legally reversed, so to say it's been 60, 90 or 190 days and no one has challenged them. That's not how it works. A 30-day deadline is foreseen by law. No subsequent deadline is foreseen, no subsequent version is legally provided for by which we can dispute anyone. I'll give you one example: in this room last week we picked judges, legal holders. A procedure is known to challenge the choice of judges before the election. Five, ten or 15 judges here we challenged and we didn't choose them, but no one thinks that today's the day the elected judges say, "Wait, now we have something to object to." It's impossible, it's impossible, because that's not the Law on Broadcasting envisaged, nor is it an ex-post deadline for objections. The law had to be respected, it had to be left for 30 days, to respond to all those who may have objections, and we heard today in the debate, there are also essential objections and conflicts of interest both with Cekic and Cvetkovic, and if the deadline had been 30 days, instead of 30 minutes, the choice of Cekic and Cvetkovic would have been prevented. When it comes to Radenovic, the matter is quite clear: man does not meet the requirements. Until today, he has not brought evidence that he lives and works in Kosovo. The second thing, he was giving false information about himself. He has no moral right to be a member of the Council. Here's his application here, he writes law school. After that, when he was pressed with evidence, he said he had no law school. Which one of us in his biography gives us information that he studied? Nobody. If I'm a college graduate, I'm a college graduate, and if I'm not, I'm witnessing high school. The highest degree of school training you have, not what you studied, is reported. Furthermore, he gives information that he was the head of RTS marketing in TV Pristina from September 1991 to March 1999. When it is challenged, he brings paper that it was, signed by Milanovic, but the paper bears a date of 31.12.1996. He's disabling himself with papers. It may have been, but it could have been a year or eight years, as he reported it in the original version. Someone who gives false information about himself cannot be a member of such an organ as this advice, which must first have authority. It is a clear thing about him, and it must not happen at the last session of the Committee on Culture, to enter a man whom none of us know, to throw the MPs on a table of files, and then to say that he is Radenovic and that there is evidence that he meets the conditions. It's a humiliation to the assembly. If what we claim is not true, such information must have been obtained through the official route, it is known how. There are competent authorities, there are ministries that can check whether Vukosav Tomasevic or any other citizen of this country lives and works somewhere in this country. Why didn't the Ministry of Culture and Media do it? Why the other authorities today did not come out officially with the state seal, with data that Radenovic meets or does not meet the requirements. I remind you, we also have the Ministry of Culture and Media in this country. The minister was supposed to be sitting here today. Where's Mr. Minister of Media? What's the payment for? I'll end up with one of his statements. I'll quote it in the end, comment, to prove to you what the ministry does. It is indisputable that these three people cannot be elected in this way, and the only thing that is possible is that the decisions on the appointment of these two, Cekic and Cvetkovic, are annulled and Radenovic is recalled. It's a terrible thing for me, which was shocking back then at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, with how arrogant the three of them were. They set themselves up as irreplaceable. Cekic, from this pay phone here, scolded the MPs, humiliated this assembly, because someone held back in this assembly, rich, to challenge his election in the Council. He threatened our MPs here. These people have made themselves irreplaceable. He told his colleague Simonovic that there is certainly someone else in the state of Serbia besides the three, or nine, who can do this job. If they were responsible people and wanted good to this council, to complete broadcasting and to this country, then they would have to offer their resignations as a contribution to getting out of this situation. The easiest way to get out of this situation was if they said -- we, in order to overcome the situation, are offering our resignations. If it were the fate of this assembly, I would offer my resignation. This assembly could work without Vukosav Tomasevic, without Selimovic and without any of us individually here. There are other people who can be MPs in Serbia, as there are people who can be members of the Broadcasting Council. What's the solution? The only solution is to cancel their choice and then join the re-election. The council is so discredited in public that he can't do anything serious in the future. That's what we've been talking about. Two members of the Council who have been proposed by the Assembly and the government of Vojvodina are now disputed. So we have a situation like this: two members have resigned, three members are going to settle here today, it's five, it's two more controversial, it's seven, and another one, Professor. Radojkovic, it is thought he will resign. Eight members of the nine Council are disputed on a variety of grounds, their membership in the Council is disputed. Gentlemen, obviously, the only solution is to start over, pick new advice and get that advice started. Of course, that's one solution, I don't believe that the majority of such a solution will be provided here today, because, I repeat, from the beginning, I understand the intention of the ruling majority here in the Parliament and the authorities in Serbia to open this debate pro-forma, so that nothing can be achieved, that this advice remains as it is, unthinkable, that it cannot take the law into its own hands and remain the state it is in the media. In addition to this claim goes to the fact, gentlemen, that nothing has been done in the meantime to apply the Telecommunications Act, to form a body in the area of telecommunications that will also be involved in the business of distribution of frequencies. The Broadcasting Council could be complete, it could be ideal, it could be none of what happened about him, but there's no basic story about broadcasting, so there's no story of how to divide frequencies until there's an independent body for telecommunications, which that job has to do technically. Obviously, the government in Serbia will not introduce order in the field of electronic media. How much authority is interested in this and how much, above all, the competent minister cares about this, speak and his claims made the other day, when Mr Lecic announced that he would soon find himself in front of this assembly a law on free access to information of public interest, and then assessed - that by adopting this law, he would allow the democratic way of conduct to become our daily life, in which the Law on Broadcasting and the Law on Public Information is very helpful. Gentlemen, the Minister of Media in Serbia does not know that the Law on Broadcasting and the Law on Public Information is not applicable. What kind of minister is this, what kind of authority is this, and who is responsible for all this?- I'm sorry. We were supposed to have answers today, and so did the Committee on Culture and Information, because the Committee's conclusion was not this way, the Committee's conclusion was (here, there is no president here, there is never when it should be faced with something important) - a debate in the Assembly on the application of the Law on Broadcasting and the selection of members of the Council. Why is the Committee's conclusion not respected? Therefore, gentlemen, what would be seen is that, in addition to these provisions on the Council, there are still provisions of this law that are not applicable, and not to the Council, but directly to other governmental authorities. I've asked on many occasions, so I'm asking this time, why isn't the law on advertising applied, and it had to come into force on January 1st of this year? Why does no one take responsibility for this provision not being applied for seven and a half months? Why, for example, no one sanctions political advertising, advertising of political parties, which has been explicitly banned from the law since January 1st and which today goes to the media in Serbia. Why, gentlemen, no one takes responsibility for the fact that in July 27th of this year, so in two weeks, the application of a member of this law that speaks of the privatisation of municipal local stations has not begun. The ministry has been competent and mandatory to do instructions so far and to apply that member. To this day there is none of it, and it is impossible to expect it from this ministry and this minister. Now, these are all the questions that remain without an answer in this room and in this debate, and we had to have clear answers to them today, if we really want to get out of this situation created around the Council and if we really want the Law on Broadcasting to start applying, that the Council is truly independent of the influence of any political option, and the influence of the current government, as well as of all the stakeholders in the branch, so from the media. If we want to, we need to have answers to all these questions, so that really the Law on Broadcasting starts to apply as it should and as it applies in Western-European democratic countries. The DSS will ensure that when it comes to power, after the next elections, the law is applied properly and that order is introduced into the area of broadcasting. We're only going to change one thing in this law: we're going to write here a condition that whoever claims to own an electronic media in Serbia must know all seven Serb-language crashes and use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32482	The People's MP Petar Petrovic has the word, followed by MP Leila Ruzdic - Trifunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32483	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with only one trip, which is -- happiness is for Serbia and the Serbian people that some who hope to come to power will never come to power in Serbia. We're discussing something here today, and we haven't been procedurally clear about whether we should discuss this at all today or not. In fact, a group of MPs in the proposal to resolve some members of the broadcasting council, which we chose here a few months ago, among other things, in an explanation for the resolution, writes -- in line with the request of the President of the Broadcasting Agency's Council, Nenad Cekic, once again declares about members who have disputed political parties and media associations and so on. I ask the question - since when do we meet in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with various requests to discuss something to resolve or not. In fact, we've chosen the Broadcasting Council here according to the Broadcasting Law, which is what some have voted for, some against, most of it was for and we chose it. All interested in this Serbia, dissatisfied with this choice or if they felt that certain provisions of the Law on Broadcasting were violated, were able to initiate proceedings at the competent courts in this Republic and to seek, that is, to challenge the choice of each individual member of the Council with evidence to attach or challenge the complete selection of the broadcasting council. That would be the end of the story, because I don't see a single member in the Rules of Procedure that we could discuss again today, something that we made a measurement decision about, is what it was, whether someone liked it or didn't like it. There is a request from the President or not, the Broadcasting Council, but we believe that, in front of the Soviets, that we could not discuss this today, but had to first have some authority in this Serbia, which is the judicial authorities, whether it is a Constitutional Court or some other regular court, I will not bid here now, but first they had to say their word whether the Broadcasting Law, or whether certain members were properly applied when they decided on the election of members of the Council or not, and then after that, the Assembly, if it were to be assessed that the law had not been properly applied, would have made a different decision if the decision on the selection of individual members of the Council or some members of the Council had been, to say, contested, or repealed. Therefore, when we resolve this matter in a procedural manner, then we can discuss something else. Otherwise, to meet some requests to discuss and waste time, I apologize for this expression, on these issues, and this Serbia stands on the agenda of passing much more important laws that need to be regulated as much as possible by the situation in the economic and political system of Serbia. So, ladies and gentlemen, if someone was unsatisfactory, like I said, he could have asked in court to determine. Secondly, if any of the members of the elected Council were hit by various criticisms, whether media associations, whether political parties, whether associations, whether the OSCE and similar international organisations, and could no longer suffer from the moral and any other aspect of the criticism at their expense, he could resign and no longer suffer it. Therefore, they too have the right, each of the members of the Council, to resign and no longer be considered members of the Broadcasting Council. We, if we are to vote again today on what we voted on, I think we will make an even bigger mistake, that just us as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will break the law that way, so maybe someone else who is interested in seeking an annulment of the decision made when it is at the vote. I would not question the biographies of all, in addition to these three mentioned four, since the two resigned, whether they are correct or not, whether the diplomas are valid or not, which some have shown, there are again in the Republic of Serbia competent authorities who should evaluate and assess this. If someone thinks that someone has misrepresented himself or presented a diploma without having obtained that diploma in a legitimate way, they can apply to the Public Prosecutor's Office for reviewing such matters, or to file criminal charges for the work they consider a member of the Broadcasting Council. In this way we would simply divide, and for several months we are not doing, legislative, judicial and executive power in this country, to simply apply the Constitution and that every body in this country is doing the job that needs to be done and for which people in those bodies receive wages. For all of these reasons, the Serbian Unity Party will not support the proposal to resolve the mentioned members; therefore, exclusively for procedural reasons, because we do not think that we should have discussed this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32484	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, followed by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32485	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have heard from the media for several weeks, and we are also having discussions on five members of the Broadcasting Council. All this time we've been hearing all sorts of suggestions about how these problems can be solved. But none of us seem to care that these five cases, to call them that, cannot be swept under the same denominators. That is, we need to put the problem in a way that we can view it legally and deal with it legally. It's the only thing we can get out of, especially when we have in mind that we're the legislative body that's made some decisions here. When it comes to Mr Cekic and Cvetkovic, they are controversial that the Assembly did not respect the deadline of 30 days of putting their bids to the public. When it comes to Mr Radenovic, he said he missed out on his candidacy and lack of conditions, i.e. failing to have different conditions, that he should be proposed for candidacy. When it comes to Mr. Vodanic and Mrs. Milivojevic, they resigned, and I don't think we can judge their resignations, it's a personal act and their replacement is clearly provided for in the law, those two places should be regulated by law. I'll start with Mr. Cekic and Cvetkovic. The Law on Broadcasting in its Article 24 provides for these 30 days of publicising certain candidates. But that's all the broadcasting law predicts. He doesn't even tell us what's causing the candidacy to be seen, or what's the point of putting it into place, and he doesn't offer us anything, what's going to happen, as a solution, if those bids don't come to light. We have before us a law which, by my judgment, is flawed, because for the activity of perceiving it does not show what its goal is. We can conclude that the public is discussing so that they can make objections, but the law did not oblige us to, to conclude, just to put. So if we didn't do it, we made a procedural mistake and that mistake stands. However, the question arises whether it is an important injury for the election of members of the Radio-Difuge Council. By my estimate, there are no major injuries. A procedural error has been made whose existence makes no reference to any future life of the Radiodifuse Council. On the other hand, as MPs, we voted for two members of the Broadcasting Council. The highest body in this country has been voted by two members of the Broadcasting Council, and in no way does the Broadcasting Law foresee that the reason for the resolution is, which we question here today, disrespecting a procedure that has neither a cause nor a reason. The question arises: do we, by debate, and by even more voting on resolution, violate the law? Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we put these two members to the vote, we would then break the law and clearly envisaged members of the Broadcasting Law. The assembly made a procedural mistake, thus making a minor violation of the law, because it was not mentioned as important, and by voting and any work to resolve the members of the Broadcasting Council, the Assembly would violate the law. If the law did not want only for certain reasons to be resolved by members of the Broadcasting Council, it would not have taxed Article 29. That's why I don't think that we can decide about Cvetkovic and Cekic at all, they are elected members of the Radiodifuse Council, and as far as Radenovic is concerned, it is said, even at a time when he was at the vote, a lot of things why he was challenged by the candidacy, so that I remind you that the MPs of the Democratic Centre did not vote for the proposal, precisely because of these doubts. If it turns out that these doubts are correct, and according to what I was looking at afterwards, my earlier thoughts are not in doubt about such a resolution, because it is provided for in the law, if there are reasons, which are the reasons for the resolution, we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32486	The People's Messenger Joca Arsic has the word, and after him is the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32487	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I have no intention of replicating Zarka, as Zarko is represented here as Zarko Korac, not Zarko Obradovic. I could take the Light of Koraq, and I don't have any right to do business, since we belong to the same parliamentary group. He mentioned here that I was one of the few who, not disputed the law, did not dispute the choice of candidates, but pointed to the problems of procedures. The fact is that at that time, and on the very Committee on Culture, I have just warned, not because of the personal issue itself, not because of who will be elected. I've never talked about whether this one's like it or not, whether he's got this problem or that problem. I was talking about the law predicting that every candidate must be eligible, as it is in accordance with the Law on Broadcasting, publicly announced. There is no dilemma - the public advertising of candidates is aimed at making objections to this candidate, and it is in line with the law. You can tell which objections they might be if they weren't made. The law has defined exactly who can, who can't be, who is recommended to be, and the horse on which basis can't be a member of the Broadcasting Council. It's the highest organ, it's the organ that has the highest power in this country. It's a terrible power. It has frequencies, it has the natural wealth of this country, it has a fantastic impact. His failure to function, the failure of this law and the non-application of this law, it's a problem, so I agree with my colleagues who have pointed out that we need to discuss the application of this law today, not personal issues. Personal issues have arisen because of the different application or non-application of this law. One consequence is this procedural error and these procedural problems that now arise as the basis. I will remind you that a year ago, the law was passed in this assembly, that by the end of the year, all of this was to be carried out as provided for by this law: it chooses the Radio-Difusion Council, selects the board of directors of the public service, namely RTS 1 and RTS Novi Sad, after we have separated the two organisation units of former RT Serbia. This board of directors should choose this broadcasting council. He didn't choose him until today. As of January 1st, it was due to start with a subscription, financing public service, and as far as Vojvodina is concerned, and as far as the central part of Serbia is concerned. Therefore, none of these jobs have been completed. We have a problem here, although we have a congregation decision to carry out direct transmissions, we don't have them today, because we don't know who we need to talk to. Is RTS a public service, is it independent or is it a government organisation or this assembly because it is financed from the budget? He doesn't have a subscription, no way, no original funding, except financing from commercial businesses, commercials, etc. It's also a very important problem that we don't want to talk about, but we're telling this other story. To remind me of what our obligation was. Our obligation was, when we talked about these candidates, to be publicly advertised, to spend 30 days and then to declare the Assembly afterwards. I've been looking here, since it's been about 10, 15 days, to put it off. It's not a matter of urgency, and it's not so bad that we follow procedure and it's been 30 days. You know what you said to me? Everyone here is salting their head with ash - you know what, we were wrong. I have the impression that one moment we will become Pompeii, we will not see each other from the ashes here. My people, that's when you said it was of general interest, that it was a public interest and that we had to do it, that it was invaluable. I agree it's invaluable, but now we're in a position to sit here and talk after all, and, like I said, spray on the ashes all in a row. It wasn't our fault, we didn't know, we weren't warned. That's not true. She's been warned twice by this congregation, twice I've warned her myself. I don't think I'm the smartest or rarely smart around here. Therefore, I have warned of respect for the law. This is not the first time this congregation has failed to respect its decisions. This assembly has passed the Law on Broadcasting, and it is up to it to decide that it respects the law. We passed that law a year ago. Its provisions are clear, although there are some things I warned against, that the deadlines are 30 days, then 60 days, then 90 days. It all delays the quality of the application of this law. At that time, we had amendments to agree, to agree with each other, not to have this legal procedure and to dismiss the implementation of this law. You did not accept that decision by your majority. You have the right to do that. It's no big deal, but we're back in a situation where we're dealing with all this stuff now. One of the most important things - we are talking here about the problem Cekic, the problem Radenovic, the problem of the second or third. We forgot that according to the law, we know exactly how the resolution is done. This is not the way the law is used. We will re-enter the problem of making a new decision in an illegal way. We've done it in an illegal way before, and now we're going to get back into this business to make this decision in an illegal way, and if we decide to deal with the resolution of these people for whom there is an objection and a motion for a decision; decisions have shortcomings, there's no good explanation, whose explanation -- it can be, but it doesn't necessarily mean. I would remind you that Article 29 provides that, on a proposal from the Council or on a proposal from at least 20 MPs, a member of the Council in the following cases: "If, on the basis of the findings of a competent medical institution, he is unable to perform his duties as a member of the Council for a period of more than six months". We don't have any medical records when it comes to these people. "If it is established that when the proposal is submitted, it has given false information about itself or failed to provide information on the circumstances of Article 25 of this Act." In this case, it's not, when it comes to these two. It's discriminatory what it is about Mr. Radenovic. Let me remind you, Mr Radenovic has been proposed by these eight members of the Radiodifuse Council and they are owned to discuss this matter. "If, without a reasonable reason, he misses or refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Council in a period of at least three months continuously or for a period of 12 months, in which he does not perform his duty for at least six months. The decision on resolution may only be made on the basis of a reasoned proposal, following a procedure in which all relevant circumstances are established and in which a member of the Council against whom the procedure has been initiated is allowed to enter into such circumstances. The reason for the resolution of a member of the Council cannot be political or other confidence, or membership in a political organisation. The decision on the discharge of a member of the Council is deemed to be adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs." So by the same procedure - 126 needs to be declared in this case and in the opposite. It's what's only possible to do. I think we're doing a job here that doesn't agree with this member of the law at all. We will do again what we did and last time - make an illegal decision, any way we can make a statement. The most legal decision is to give up this debate and, if someone needs to be resolved, to find valid reasons for the resolution, and to withdraw this proposal from the procedure. We think it's the most elegant solution to get us out of this situation. But you're your own to decide, so you can decide anyway. Otherwise, we have entered a little bit across the way in the process of filing this request to hold a session and put this problem on the agenda. First, from our conclusion on the Committee on Culture, not unanimously, but mostly with votes, to discuss the application of the Law on Broadcasting. I claim a year has passed in five or six days since we passed the Law, and on July 27th, it came into force. We haven't applied a single letter in a year from this broadcasting law. A year straight. Why, I ask you, most of it. Why, I'm asking the government. Why, I ask the authorities and the responsible people. Here's the only man who can settle for this article I've quoted, Mr. Vodnelic. Mr. Vodnelic covered up the fact that his close relative works in Radio-Television and that is a valid reason not for him to resign, but for him to put in the process his cover-up, he decides to take the advice, bring the document about it, deliver it to this assembly, and this assembly declares itself and it is certainly also a solution to the gentleman, because it is contrary to the law. He covered up that fact. The question here is whether Radenovic covered up the fact by saying he was a lawyer, so he is not a lawyer at the end. I don't really know if he is or isn't, whether he has valid documentation or not, but this is about a doctor of law, a professor and he doesn't know the law, he doesn't know that this is what's stopping him. What's his degree of responsibility? However, we have professors of law who are in legal and factual error often, but here we see that we also have a third example of this legal and factual error. It is obvious that Mr. Vodnelic was in legal and factual error. He didn't know how to read the law, he didn't know that as a member of the Broadcasting Council he had a problem doing his duty. I don't know what we're supposed to do, whether to re-enter or pass that exam that should have been passed or wasn't in that class. I can't decide. Maybe he wasn't informed, who knows. This is where we were worried about the fate of RTS. I was just talking about it. What's most important and what this assembly needs to discuss is exactly the RTS issue and the implementation of the RTS law. Do we want RTS to be led to that extent, to be demoted to that extent, to destroy to that extent, that it will be no matter who and how it takes, and he alone has the frequency. He doesn't need the radio-dip advice. The law itself has assigned a frequency to three frequency areas. It's a huge fortune. We've left him out and a year doesn't know who's running RTS, past this law, past all regulations, past all. We don't even know who the director is. The director was in one session and we talked about it when we talked about direct TV transmission. At that time, we had the conclusion of the Committee on Culture to continue with TV broadcasts and we have an extremely important law and a significant thing, and we work in darkness, outside the public, out of the public eye, even though we had the conclusion of the Committee on Culture to continue to apply the Parliament's decision. No one puts it on the agenda of this assembly, and now we're putting on the agenda what I think has obviously become indisputable because we don't have any valid reason, no basis in this law to go back into the procedure, to make it clear that we made a bad statement last time. Someone mentioned the choice of judges here. If we make such a mechanism in this congregation, then we will question every decision we make, every law we make. We will retroactively be able to discuss some of the judges we elected yesterday, the prosecutor, the government, the ministers. There's got to be a legal procedure for all of this. I agree that we can talk about government, about ministers, but according to a certain procedure. Then there is no legal stability, there is no stability and this assembly will turn into a majority vote. Someone here said it had to be on the ball. I only agree if it's fourth, because it's very risky to stand on a round ball. This congregation can make a decision that the ball is a quarter, because it has a majority to make such a decision. That's the fourth decision we made last time, and now we want to make that fourth decision today. I think I've made a lot of arguments, that this needs to be withdrawn from the procedure and to be completed. On the Committee on Culture, I have suggested that it be addressed to authorised proposings, and we have not yet received resignations. It says here clearly in the law that whoever resigns is obliged to deliver it to the Serbian Parliament. Did Vodnelic deliver, did Mrs Milivojevic deliver. We didn't get it, and we MPs want to hear from you whether they delivered their resignations. If they delivered whether it was given, because the resignation is a personal act and there is no need to discuss it, with what I have done and I think it should not be debated, but should be resolved, because it has been illegally elected and that is a fact, and that is to be put in the procedure that we have two members of the Broadcasting Council on the agenda in this assembly. If we wait for that three-month period, which is maximum, then we'll probably be picking out other members of the Radio-Deffusion Council in another assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32488	The word is a folk letter from the Verica Radet, followed by the folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32489	Ladies and gentlemen, when you passed the Law on Broadcasting, Serbian Radical Party MPs warned you that you were passing a very bad law and that you were passing a law that would not apply. I hope it's clear to you all today, even if you won't admit it publicly. That's why I'm warning you now that what you're doing today is procedurally wrong and that it's not in line with any positive law. The choice of the Radio-Delefusing Council is proof that you DOS cannot do a single job without problems and without affairs. You, gentlemen, of the nine members of the Broadcasting Council, are six disputed. Today, we are talking about Mr Nenad Cekic, Vladimir Cvetkovic and Goran Radenovic, and I ask you what is wrong with Mrs Snjezana Milojevic or Milivojevic, who resigned, and after her resignation, all the newspapers said that the lady had an agency, whose work in connection with the work she was chosen to do in this broadcasting council. If that's true, it means she's chosen against the law. I'm asking what's going on with Mr. Vladimir Vodanelic. Also after his resignation, all the media reported that his daughter works at RTS, which is also contrary to the law. It's irrelevant that these people resigned, the fact that you chose them against the law that you brought yourself. The third member, I don't know what the man's name is, I mostly read that one day he resigned, the second day the proposer persuaded him to return, not to resign, to withdraw and so on several occasions, so I don't know if that gentleman resigned or if he's still a member of the Broadcasting Council. After all, Mr. Bojan Pajtic here today, and two days ago on TV, he says, "With today's debate at the Assembly, all the controversy in public will be over. Comments on the 30-day deadline have been removed, as in public, Mr Cekic and Cvetkovic 60, including 90 days." If this is the way to end all the debates and to end this in this way, then indeed it is the honor, because in these 60 or 90 days we have really listened to everything and everything, each other's accusations between the members of the Council who resigned and those who are on the agenda today, between them. We found out about all the black stains from their biography, and unfortunately, there's enough of them that there's no room for any of them to be a member of the Broadcasting Council. Mr. Radenovic says, his wife reported him as a displaced person from Kosovo, to get some humanitarian help and when he found out, after the debate here in the Assembly that he was registered, and God, he didn't even know, he immediately checked out and now he's a citizen who's been in Kosovo since the beginning and who never checked out there. What's interesting to me is the fact that this gentleman, Nenad Cekic, has become the main character of this drama, and related to the Radio-Difusion Council. The colleagues who participated in the Assembly committee here spoke of his conduct, his arrogant behavior, his critical consideration of the National Assembly, of the MPs. Part of it I saw on television, and believe me, I was crushed, as this man was allowed to behave in this room in that way and in relation to the parliament's parliament's work. It is obvious that this Mr. Cekic, at all costs, wants to stay in the Broadcasting Council, and while he is scramblingly fighting for that function, explains in some television show, how if someone else who is less honest than he is a member of the Broadcasting Council, he could take some hundreds of thousands of euros for the award of the Broadcasting Council, and he is fair, he will not, and therefore he should be elected. I know you'll make a decision today, just as you intend, and above all, against the law. I warn you, with that decision you have no broadcasting advice, because it remains only with six members.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32490	I am fixing a break of up to 15.00 hours and the afternoon part of the session we begin by discussing the application for a word, and the word will be by MP Svetlana Stojanovic, after which, MP Alen Selimovic. Thank you. [[After break - 15.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work in the afternoon. To determine the quorum needed to work, please insert your MP cards into the voting identification units. I find that we have the quorum needed to work and continue according to the order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in a single search for decisions on the resolution of members of the Broadcasting Agency Council. The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32492	Dear People's MPs, this item of the agenda has been put on the initiative of 44 DSS MPs, and five other DOS MPs who are not members of the DSS, which is not otherwise clear from the call because the motion for a session has been signed by some other members of the DOS. I feel the need to highlight a few things; our proposal is not to repeat the vote, but to put aside the two decisions that we have made as a Assembly, and the Assembly has the power to put its decisions out of force when it finds that it was wrong in the procedure, which we obviously are and we agree on. So, the proposal is to dismiss a member of the Council, already elected, Mr Radenovic, because he does not meet the requirements laid down by law. The basic condition does not meet - it is all an opportunity not to live in Kosovo; and to put aside the decision on the election of Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Cekic, because we were wrong in the procedure. We are not discussing personalities or their likeness to remain members of the Council. Although this has already been said several times in discussions so far, it is not disputed, we all agree on it, I feel the need to repeat: one year after the Law on Broadcasting was adopted, it is not applied. RTS has not been transformed into a public service and is supported by the republican budget, it is highly dependent on its financier, the government. The status of local television and radio stations remains undefined. The frequencies are not assigned. There's been chaos that's ruled before. It's all a chance for chaos to work for someone. We don't actually have a radio-delefu board, and that's already said more than once during today's debate. MPs of different political options and parties agree, but let me repeat -- two members have resigned and we don't know how we're going to replace them. For two members, the procedure has been violated and no subsequent mind can fix it, but the decision can be put out of force. One does not live in Kosovo, and by law he would have to live, and he is not professional and he would have to be according to the law. So we have to get rid of him. I too, as well as one of the MPs who spoke before me, is completely unclear how it is so difficult for any citizen of this country, let alone a member of the Council, to determine the place of residence, that no one else to the National Assembly should discuss it. All members of the Council are contentious, not just these three we're discussing today. They are being slowed by their proposings, who require the Assembly to repeat the entire procedure. 1. The University Council, 27 university professors, sent a request to this assembly on June 30th to relieve all former members of the Council and select new ones. No shortcut, university professors say. 2. On July 1, 2003, NGOs sent us a letter saying that the way the Broadcasting Agency Council was established does not meet the requirements of legality and credibility. They are unique in the view that it is impossible to correct the illegal choice of members of the Council in any other way than by repeating the legal procedure. 3. AEM sent us a letter saying that no further discussion, determination of facts, or execution of evidence could be corrected by law. The matter can only be corrected if the act on election of members of the Council is put out of force and the selection procedure is repeated. 4. NUNS also addressed the assembly by letter, which found that the procedure had been violated, and claimed that there was a conflict of interest. 5. "Resistance" disputes a elected member from Vojvodina. Which of the elected council members is indisputable at all? Almost everyone is challenged in one way or another. It is not true that the Council is merely the victim of our error in the procedure. The Council itself tried to close the proceedings and in the law "do not seek hair in the egg", so he proposed to the Assembly for the ninth member of the candidate who does not live in Kosovo and has a course for managers. For his President, the Council has long chosen a member who has not waited to see if the public has anything to say about him, thus showing that he, the current president of the Council, does not seek the law "hair in the egg". I agree with an MP who spoke before me that the current president of the Broadcasting Council in his address in the Assembly has expressed incredible arrogance. Unsatisfying with the response of the Messengers of the people to his statement, he said in anger: "At the same time, vote as you will. "I thank him for letting me vote as I please. After the presentation of these three members of the Broadcasting Council to the Committee of this Assembly and after all they have said about each other, both to the public and to this assembly, after all the ugly words they have directed to each other, my impression is that they will not be able to work as a team. The members of the Council themselves challenge each other. In no way should the congregation, in a situation like this, repeatedly so far, reach for the method of voting, so that the tense, highly suspicious majority, vote that all of this is not how it is, but that everything is fine and that everything should remain the way it is now. Part of the problems we've faced stems from the very Law on Broadcasting. Since DSS MPs have been denied the right to participate in the process of adopting the Law on Broadcasting and since we will obviously have to repeat the selection procedure of members of the Broadcasting Council, let me briefly refer to the law itself. Has the Broadcasting Law armed us enough that we can choose an independent, regulatory body, independently, out of the influence of any political parties and state bodies? I don't think so. The broadcasting agency council would have to be elected by a two-thirds majority in the Assembly. It's the only way we'd avoid a trap if the congregation's majority, the tense one, supported by the government, elected and members of the Council, had the taste of the government. The country's natural resources and the powerful force such as the media must not be managed without social consensus. Among the mandated council members, there are too many proposings representing the ruling structures, not even society. These are the Republic government, the Executive Greater Vojvodina (Ukraine Government), the Serbian Parliament -- if it is enough to raise the votes of MPs who support the government, then the candidate is not actually elected by the Assembly, but by the government. The Vojvodina Assembly -- if the votes of the province's MPs supporting the province's government are enough, and the candidate will be of the taste of the province's government. In doing so, Vojvodina again appears as a state in the country, and from Kosovo we have failed to find someone who actually lives there. In this country, there are 18,000 NGOs, of course, according to their specific weight and credibility. I am not convinced that the law among them has singled out those who will represent a wide variety of views on important social issues. I have to ask myself why we haven't taken advantage of the possibility of candidates for members of the Council, before they were elected and not after that, to check in a public inquiry (so-called public hiring). If we had done so, it would not have happened to us that a candidate for a member of the Council at one point became a man who destroyed the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, that the conflict of interest in the public was mentioned in several elected candidates, and that many were challenged by expertise. If we really aim to choose a political independent regulatory body, which will not be out of the control of legitimately elected representatives of the people, the strategy for the development of broadcasting would also have to be adopted by this assembly, by a two-thirds majority, and not only by the government. So, I urge you to vote for the DSS proposal, to put aside the election of two members of the Council, Mr Cekic and Cvetkovic, to relieve Mr Radenovic's duties, and then to repeat the whole procedure in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32493	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, and after him, the MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32494	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we need to talk about today is why the National Assembly is talking about this in general, a few weeks after the Radio-Dizum Council has been elected, although with a year of delay. For us, a key issue, such as the people who are involved in politics and who are in parliament in favour of what is the fundamental interest of the citizens of Serbia, whether an association like AEM or any other association, is a partner of the parliament of our state and is a partner of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is a supervisor to one or another body, one or another institution, and is it possible that, based on their dissatisfaction with the personal solutions in the Broadcasting Council, a single question can be returned here in front of us in the procedure that is finally for us. If AEM is not satisfied with how and how things work in Serbia, it can establish a political party, it can go to the polls, it gets a certain political result, it enters parliament, participates in the government and exercises power in Serbia as it says in the political programme, if they would be a political party. These things are just seemingly, I'd say, Benning; ANEM as an association of so-called In the past, independent and free media has had the opportunity to strengthen the material position of their businesses with other people's money, improve the material position of employees in these companies, carry out political, media and any other influence to help preparate public opinion, explain that then the government is not good enough for the citizens of this country and that the results of the elections after all these events in this country are as they are today, and today we have the real consequences and the delusions that you are exercising power. So, no matter what any of the people who exercise power in the country owes AEM, it is unserious that AEM dictates the conditions under which the parliament of a state works. If we were to shut up in the political past and the people who make up ANEM today, we would find among them great communists, such as Nino Brajevic and Gordan Suša, and many others, and we wouldn't be surprised that only 20 years ago they said things that are completely incompatible with what today is their political stance. They have the right to be political converts, but they have no right to dictate in the Serbian parliament the conditions under which this parliament should operate. We have an obligation only to those citizens who chose us, we are not financed from the outside, we do not have the structure of funding political parties, I am talking about my party, such as AEM or as some DOS parties had, and we do not have the obligation to account for anyone outside who is not satisfied with the effects of power today in Serbia. That's one question. The second question is the position of RTS or public service. The first thing this assembly did was almost refer to the cancellation of a TV subscription to fulfill one thing, for God's sake, I would say only of the election promises of an integral DOS. Wasn't it enough that RTS in past times was called the ugliest names that in national, national, professional, in any other sense are an insult to one institution, what RTS was and what it should always be. Isn't it enough that during NATO bombing they reduced her to such a degree that she was no longer technically prepared to do what was her primary task. I remind you, the first bomb to hit RTS in Abardar, came to Master, into the heart of television. On that occasion, people who worked there died. Isn't it enough that on October 5th, your exemplars, burning down television, caused even more damage than was done during NATO aggression. Isn't this all enough reason for RTS as a public service to get normal status in this country, to have regulated funding, to be able to establish management authorities and to deal with the business that makes it form and because of who needs to exist? For more than a year, there has been a Law on Broadcasting, it is not legally prescribed until today's day that the Broadcasting Council has not been established, the issue of funding has not been resolved, it is not a clear concept, nor the path to which this public service should be developed. Could it be appropriate for someone to have RTS die in technical mercy, to cease to exist, to have any problematic media bosses in Serbia take over the professional and any other space that has the ambition to influence the citizens of Serbia and to take over RTS. Whatever anyone thinks of RTS, I remind you, 21 years ago, she started working on another program. This country was the fifth European country to have a satellite radio station. The area was invested as much as the income of these citizens and this country allowed under the given circumstances, but what was done should serve pride. During NATO bombing, 56 out of 59 relays and RTS transmitters were destroyed. Isn't that enough reason to reach a consensus in this assembly about what we want when it comes to our national television? We can achieve, in one way or another, an influence on the editorial policy of a public service. The fact that it's supposed to do some kind of broadcasting advice that's being challenged today won't deprive anyone in this country of the ability to lobby, to abuse, to do according to public service what he thinks is his interest at some point. We had a chance to see it in these few weeks during public debates. Didn't one of the members of the Broadcasting Council publicly say, visiting Serbia's first radio-television programme, that he was a key man for the October 5th relationship and that he was owed it and that he was elected today as a member of this council under this debt? There is no independence when so-called "independence." the independent positions of individual members of the Council in this important regulatory body. We're not going to participate in a story that's happening here in front of us, in a way that we can sort out on one side or the other. We want this agency, its managing authorities, to finally introduce order into the broadcasting system, to remove those two frequencies that were hidden from the budget when we adopted the law on broadcasting, to talk about the Third Radio-Television Programme of Belgrade and the Second TV programme of Novi Sad, and to ask who they will be allocated to, to ask whether it is possible for national frequencies to be an important concession, as a resource that provides enormous unsightly possibilities, to be in the service of one lobby, one man or one political party. I think the assembly has succumbed to a pressure that's inconclusive and I think we have a replica here today with anem. ANEM is an association, there are other associations, each of them has its own interests. We've seen that they're both personal and personal, and family, and unsupervised and who knows what else to do. We here have an interest in starting to operate this broadcasting system in Serbia, which is in the interests of Serbian citizens, to bring back a camera in this room, to let people hear what we're saying here, so that we ourselves, in front of our target groups and in front of Serbian citizens, risk it. Don't defend us against that kind of risk. If we do wrong, we do bad things for ourselves. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: It is not the point, we defend the people from you. The people are tired of your defense, Milka, we'd better not talk about it. It's not a topic today. And if that's the subject, bring the cameras back to the O.R., then let the people see who, who and what way they defend. I suggest that you listen to the speakers with basic courtesy and I suggest that we come out of this story in the only possible way. This congregation once decided. Whether or not she has made a mistake in the procedure, it is a matter of those who prepare and conduct the sessions here, who are engaged in the adoption of acts by law and by the Constitution. If that's not good, then someone here isn't doing a good job, but this assembly has made one decision, whatever it is, there's no controversy with it. It's supposed to be a lesson. If everyone asks for decisions to be reconsidered, to question laws, then for one year we can discuss three or four things a few times, and that's neither where it writes, nor to whom it serves honor. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32495	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, after him, has the People's Messenger Vladimir Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32496	As part of this point, we need to legalize what's illegal. It is against the law to elect members who are now subject to debate. Who's the most responsible for that? Individually, it may not matter if we discuss it, but not to forget, to keep it in writing, it's the president of the parent committee's fault. He's the only one to blame. In the first place, to warn Serbian radicals that it would be smart and politically wise with proposals such as Cvetkovic and Cekic to wait, to comply with a legal provision that says -- at least 30 days should be their biography exposed to the public -- the chairman of the parent board said that he, I do not care, he proposed to his responsibility those people, there was even dissatisfaction in the DOS. What's going on? It is now a joke instead of correcting a mistake in the only possible, normal way, which is that the Committee proposes its proposal to the Assembly, to invite the Proposer to go with new or re-proposed proposals, that we, on the basis of these proposals, discuss; we are here discussing whether 126 MPs are able to vote in favour of the resolution of three illegally elected representatives of the Radiodifuse Council. It's absurd. Here's why it's absurd. It has long been known, and already some members of the majority DOS - Reform have started to bring out the public that this system is being set up, that it always shows 127 - 128. That fact itself says that this is a vain debate. The very fact that, thanks to mathematical cybernetics, you can always have a majority against, and in this case an insufficient number is all below 126, in fact, legalizing what is illegal. And if you had, gentlemen, the will to correct your mistake, you would have listened to the opposition MPs, you would have listened even to MPs from the majority DOS Reform, who had a plea for this speaker, and especially us, the Serbian Radicals, who immediately warned you what you were doing and what a wasteful job it was. When did this become current in the majority DOS? The moment the war broke out between two, conditionally said, media giants, on the one hand, Veran Matic, who is headed by B-92 and on the other hand Zeljko Mitrovic, who is headed by Pinka. That might be strange for everyone if we didn't know who was behind these two. The war between Veran Matic, which is on B-92, was on the side of frequencies, while the late prime minister Djindjic was, so Veran Matic launched a campaign against him. When he saw it was a tough nut, it was a wall that would break his head, then he shut up a little bit. Now he waited for his moment to again, thanks to lobbying, thanks to some other influences, get national frequencies. On the other hand, his obstacle is something called the Pink, and behind that Pink stands one part of the ruling party, the Democratic Party, and that should not be hidden. Certain people are behind Pink, and they're interested in getting Pink's national frequency. What's the role of our MP? The role of our MPs is just like the role of a tennis ball - to be served by Veran Matic on "Pink", and "Pink" to bring us back to Veran Matic. Gentlemen, you can afford it, and we Serbian radicals won't allow it ourselves. Respect the law you yourself have passed. By respecting the law you've passed yourself, you'll see that there's an unnecessary debate on this matter. These candidates, these members are illegally elected. Secondly, gentlemen, the members of the Radio-Difusing Council who resigned had to do so at today's session, if you really had any serious intention of solving the problem of the Radio-Difusing Council, having an alternative, they had to have other candidates from the promoter or that the proposing who proposed them said - okay, we're not giving up, they're still our candidates, so let's discuss it. Let's imagine that there will be no confidence in these three members. What about these two who resigned, how we're going to re-schedul the assembly session, and at that session, one of the points will be whether 127 or 126 MPs accept their resignation or not. What's more important now is that the representatives of the Committee and the majority parliamentary groups come out for this pay phone and say, "We made a mistake, against the law, we're going with new proposals." Let them be the same names, that's not the problem, but then there's a serious debate and that's the problem solved. Everything else is in vain.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32497	The People's MP Vladimir Andric has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32498	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, is hard to believe that today's session of the Assembly will succeed in restoring the credibility of the Broadcasting Council. Serbian citizens no longer trust his future work. The desire of the DOS parliamentary group to ignore the following facts after today's debates in public will not be achieved precisely because of the political majority's intention to re-voting the disputed candidates: firstly, that Goran Radenovic does not live in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, but that he is registered with a residence in Belgrade; that he does not fulfil the general conditions laid down by the Broadcasting Law for all members of the Council, as well as that when submitting the proposal he has presented false information on himself; that when selecting Nenad Cekic and Vladimir Cvetkovic, the public has been avoided in the process and the possibility that the MPs may have discussed whether the reputation of prominent experts in the field of electronic media has been enjoyed, as well as whether in their case there is an opportunity for conflict of interest. The links they have with Radio Index can lead to conflict of interest. The way in which the Committee on Culture and Information assessed individual media at the last session raises their independence and impartiality. From their mouths we felt the impatience of power towards free media. Furthermore, the question of the legitimacy of the Council is raised if it is left by representatives of the NGO sector and the media and, in fact, only those who were candidates of the government, the Assembly and the Government of Serbia and Vojvodina. The resignations of Vladimir Vodinelic and Snježana Milivojevic, by refusing to participate in the work of an illegally elected body, further imposes only one conclusion: that the only way out of this situation is to repeat the full selection procedure of all nine members of the Broadcasting Council, in order to restore public confidence in the legality of the Council's election. But it will be nothing, since the ruling majority thinks everything is fine and that the resignations of the Council members do not interfere with the work of that body and that it can work with only five members. Therefore, the problem is consciously pushed under the carpet and comes down to the legitimate conflict of interest groups. It is not about the conflict of some stakeholders in the media sphere, but rather about the conflict of government and free media, which is being broken through the personal composition of the Broadcasting Council. So the goal is to disappear from the Council members who have moral integrity and who we can believe will be impartial. Slowness is the only strategy of the government in the development of the media area, primarily for its survival. An obvious tendency to control printed and electronic media is as large as possible. Instead of allowing freedom of information, the media has arrived at the defendant's bench. Over 200 lawsuits against journalists and editors. That's why we shouldn't be surprised when the Western ambassadors intervene. It's our own fault. In part, things only start when international factors pressure us to bring, say, a law on the availability of information, as a necessary step towards Europe. Finally, on what occasions the media and journalists act on, they clearly show the explosions of car owners of the daily newspaper "Plas Public" and "Kurir". What's changed over the past two and a half years?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32499	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and after that, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP of the SRS two months ago for this assembly speaker, I pointed to the fact that Cekic and Cvetkovic, and at that time Radenovic's choice, against the procedure that you have legalized and declared yourself, were elected here. We are now facing the fact that what kind of parliamentary majority suggests that in three points, one by one, the disputed members of the Radiodifuse Council are resolved. We have come to a precedent, since the work of this assembly has been absolutely devised since the time of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure as it is, on the proposal of Dejan Michael and DSS, and you of the so-called We have generously supported the original DOS, and we have come to a situation that will already appear in the famous day of voting, that MPs so-called. The rest of the DOS vote against what they've suggested here. That's because a lobby was created in the RadioDifusing Council. It's not the lobby of a political-ideological nature, as it wants on one side to introduce it so-called. The pink television Zeljko Mitrovic, or Democratic Party and Television Vojislav Kostunica - B92, is already a financial lobby and the break of a spear around something measured in millions, millions of euros or dollars, whatever you want. The fact that the Broadcasting Council decides to issue a permit for broadcasting, confiscation of permits and, most importantly, through the allocation of frequencies, through national frequencies, leads us to a situation where, with a high moral aspect, the principles of justice and justice, only SRS MPs can speak for today, because at the beginning we have told you, through over 80 amendments, that you should not adopt such a law on broadcasting, that you should not in any way choose your favorites in such a way as to become a member of the Broadcasting Agency and that you should not act in such a way, dictatorically, according to opposition political parties through lobbying in one and other media. Then we hear in the assembly towers that the national television RTS is asking Dejan Mihajlov, Pajtic, for this and that, and in fact, the only true and true opposition in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the SRS, and we are nowhere, on any state media, and there is no possibility that any representative of the SRS will say anything and, in our opinion, very badly, I would say, criminal legal proposals and elections. You come into a situation where you can find out which way you jump into your mouth, because the Assembly is the most legislative body, and this second lobby from the Broadcasting Agency, assisted by so-called. International Crisis Group, Americans, so-called To NGOs, you'll also have to make a selection of members of the Radiodifuse Council the way we dictate. It doesn't surprise us, because all the legal proposals and those who expect us to continue our work this week, at the second session, come from those who give you such orders and dictate what you should do. We could, although we do not in principle want to talk about proposals and personal solutions in any way, engage in a debate, I mean Serbian radicals, because you know that we know everything about everyone and everything. We can talk about Cekic, we can talk about Radenović, we can talk about each other, but it's not our goal. Our goal is to tell you, although we are completely media-blocked, that the Assembly is truly devised, that it will cost you and that the fact that you, the Democratic Party of Serbia on the one hand, and the rest of the DOS on the other hand, the messages you send through your media and polarisation, the attempt to polarise the electoral body, these first Kostunicas in an increasingly narrower and more synchronised action with the failed Mladjan Dinkic, through the creation of a new opposition bloc, and you through the fact that you are blackmailing, buying MPs, doing everything that no one would normally think of, and keeping to the principles of democracy, justice and justice. It'll all cost you dearly, because the truth has to come out one way or another. We remain squares, we remain streets, we remain angry, we have an angry, disfigured people, all citizens of Serbia who recognise in the Serbian Radical Party the power that one, the other, will wipe out once and for all, and that order, order, justice and justice are known in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32501	The word has been given by MP Zeljko Tomic, and after that, MP Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32502	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is finally the Assembly to discuss the famous Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, the Council, whose members themselves are being debated in the media, resigning, giving arguments as to why they are, by God, given these functions. Each one presents itself in different ways and compromises the very meaning of the existence of the Broadcasting Council, at least in this composition. In addition to domestic political actors, the OSCE, who asked the assembly to elect a new Broadcasting Council, also because of the compromise of the existing Council composition. Many people from the Serbian government have once in a while sworn in the same OSCE, and now recommendations from Europe mean so little to them. I would like to remind you that today's Serbian government has provided, both support, so rich and hospitality in this home, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for example the People's Movement "Resistance", whose representatives are not present at the gallery. I'm afraid there are no reasons for advertising this organization, which no one has mentioned today, at least, on the composition of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. I will submit, the National Movement "Resistance" in Vojvodina has asked signs of questions above the two names found in the composition of this council, which were proposed by the Vojvodina Assembly and by the Executive Greater Vojvodina. No one disputed errors in the procedure or in the legality of the election of these two members, but the issue of principle and legality of their choice in this council must be raised publicly. Mr. Vladimir Marko, apart from being a classic soldier of the party and coming from the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, let it be said for this speaker whether he is a member of the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina, does not satisfy the conditions of expertise, let alone extra-party impartiality, or independence in a professional sense. In view of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency's authority, I must say that I openly doubt that in this case it has ruled out the issue of similarity or loyalty to certain political Turktures in Vojvodina, not recommendations of a professional and independent, impartial nature. As regards the proposal of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, Mrs Dragana Rogavac, it must be noted that she is employed in the Ministry of Information at the Vojvodina Assembly, which in fact raises her impartiality in the work of the Council. In fact, someone who is directly responsible to the circuit secretary for information is hardly able to securely perform the post of members of this council. Mr Pajtic said in the afternoon part of the debate that there is no form of authority in this council. I just want to say the opposite, that Mrs. Rogavac is involved, even directly, in power, in the Regional Secretariat for Information in Vojvodina. I therefore give myself the right to openly doubt the impartiality and independence of almost all members of the Council, and of some other people from the Council, which I do not mention, was quite enough words, so I would like to reiterate that the DSS advocates the resolution of all members and the selection of the new Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, completely avoiding the criteria of loyalty and similarity, and respecting true expertise and independence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an empty gallery, in the belief that we will come to ourselves while we still have a coma and that we will properly determine the composition of one of these responsible bodies, I want to appeal to think with my own head, not to think about any pink visionaries of Serbia, who want a media picture in Serbia to make their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32503	The word has a folk MP Anita Beretic, followed by MP Dragan Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32504	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honest colleagues and colleagues, as well as most of the topics of life importance, as well as most of the laws this high house adopts, are also subject to the implementation of the Law on Broadcasting politicized. In the reform process, when it is inevitable to pass a huge number of laws that will transpose, modernise and democratisation every area in the country, I accept that it is normal for each of these areas to have a certain degree of resistance in implementing the laws themselves. It's normal for me at one psychological level of consciousness, because change is natural for people, but when we define ourselves as politicians and decide that reality is really changing, then I don't understand that logic that we're making laws, but at the same time we're doing everything or most often to make it impossible to just apply those laws that we're up for and that we're doing in this house. I don't even understand the logic that you need to keep pace and have dynamics, and at the same time do everything again to process if you don't stop, it at least slows down maximum. This is the case with the application of the Law on Broadcasting and the formation and composition of the already famous council, which we have been talking about for months. The events surrounding the appointment of members of the Broadcasting Agency Council are particularly illustrating on this topic that we are talking about today. Although we all declare that the Council is working as quickly as possible, it seems a lot on the political and media scene that it doesn't actually happen. I just want to remind you, after all these discussions and memories, what was and what would have happened sooner, one way or another. These facts may seem pale, but they are simply simple to me, but very important at the same time. The public debate on candidates for the Council's composition was held. Members have been selected in this congregation, and I think the logic of things is satisfied. There is no composition of the Council or any other body at this time, due to the state of the media and the political scene in Serbia, which would have been chosen in this assembly without a broken procedure, and that all of them would be agreeable and satisfied. I think with all this energy spent in vain trying, I don't know, to kill this candidate or that candidate or that member, that we would do the same for every new and new composition of the council. We have been in front of us all day, I don't know if we've paid enough attention, exhausted material from the meeting of the Information Committee, accompanied by complete documentation of these three members, whose name has been getting through and misused very often in the media and the public at all for weeks. There's the paperwork. At the very end, according to the recommendations of the Legislative Committee - whose report was also delivered to you today, and it seems to me again, if I am not mistaken, but also the members of the Committee on Information, as well as those who were very much involved in the work of the meetings of these committees, have already come to know this report - the Committee on Culture and Information should determine whether, within a period of double the deadline provided for in Article 24 of the Law on the election of Nenad Cekic and Vladimir Cvetkovic, the circumstances provided for by Article 25 of the law, which refer to the non-compliance of certain persons with the membership of the council. That's what the board did for discussion on the board, and here we are all day. None of the elements or arguments, nor any fact, which would be in line with the recommendation of the Legislative Committee. So, with a rational argument, no member is disputed, except for the very procedure, which we heard today during the debate, very, for me, reasonably, but at the same time a clear legal argument that it has been violated. If I understand correctly, then, there is no harmful consequence of the very act of disrupting the procedure, and that we at the same time have trapped ourselves again and that we are breaking the law, the same, of broadcasting, which we are constantly and inexorably calling upon, questioning the status of elected members at all. So I simply appeal to fellow MPs to try and calm down our passions, to save that energy and to stand behind the decision we have already made, to end the politicisation of this topic and to allow the advice to work, because the powers it takes are extremely important for the media scene in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32505	The word has a folk MP Dragan Lazic, followed by MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32506	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, last time I spoke on the subject of the Broadcasting Law and the selection of the Broadcasting Agency Council, and perhaps I shouldn't have come forward today, but I would have repeated what I said last time. We obviously need to get an octroized advice of broadcasting, octroised; as many institutions in this country impose themselves, so do you want to impose this broadcasting advice on us, although many elements are problematic throughout this story. Someone mentioned that there was a conflict of interest in the election of members here. Of course it is. It is a conflict of interest in that sense, as the DSS advocates to send everything out into the clear and to start with one right and legal course, because someone wants this little national frequency that remains, which is three national frequencies, which are being broken down by spears, to sell out in some way or to some lobby that will later use it. That's what's essential. I think it might be best if they resorted to another act, which is that those radio frequencies have already been divided in advance. We may now have a very different situation in the Assembly, so the SSJ would not be in a position to vote for what it votes for, and probably not the SPS, and certainly not the Liberals of Serbia, because everyone belonged to Mr Radenovic. Okay, let me get back to this basic subject. What I was saying about Mr. Radenovic, nothing was pessimistic. Here it was essentially said which man it was. I didn't even know today, and I heard about the information, that he was working at a leading post in RTS marketing in Pristina, and unfortunately, it's not true. The marketing manager, longtime, was Mr. Milisav Milic at RTS, who is now retired and who retired right before all those events in Pristina and Kosovo and Metohija. On that day, when I was going out for this pay phone and I was just mentioning all these facts, the first thing I pointed out was, when Mr. Trajkovic came out here to read what candidate it was, I asked him in front of all of you, did Momcilo Trajkovic come out in front of the promoter and who he really was. Is it DOS, as an institution, whether it's a broadcasting advice that's otherwise competent, or it's in front of the Radenovic family, so much praise, so probably Mr Radenovic himself couldn't write about himself and hear something like that. He didn't know how to respond, so he moved on to a whole other field and started talking about some opposition work by Mr. Radenovic, which I don't doubt, that's his problem. But to tie him to anyone down there, and to know his parents well. Explain to me, please, what a recommendation it is, if anyone knows someone's parents and if they're good and what a family they are. There's a whole other topic here, it's about the expertise, the competence of those people who need to do the job. I really didn't get a chance to talk about the other candidates, and Radenovica I know as much as I know him from the accounting days, and I think at that point, what I said is the mood of most people who are really competent and who know whether this man is actually able to perform that function. Finally, here in Article 22 of the Law, it says that, among other things, members of the council should be media experts, advertising experts, lawyers, economists, telecommunications engineers and others. I don't know what they meant by "others." It could've been said anything, but there's no other one. They have, I guess, all their own categories of competences in their work. I just went out and said that a man named Radenovic can't be a member, because he doesn't satisfy any of the only elemental functions of those I've said here, or maybe he's under this other one, as you say, I totally agree. So, in this situation, there is no need to raise the problem to that pervasive level. I didn't get a chance to say anything wrong, and I was just talking about whether that man could be in that place or not. And now I'm saying, man can't be there for at least a few basic reasons, and the first thing he doesn't know enough is the job he's supposed to be doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32507	The word has been given by MP Stevan Kesejic, followed by MP Dragisa Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law, like all other laws, is like a dossal insecureness, and so I would characterise it. The resolutions offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the resolution of the Council of the Republic's Broadcasting Agency, look like a cup, and the more you suck, the bigger the mumps, and the empty the stomach. So you, too, want the MPs to lure, talk about something, which they won't be able to make decisions about, because you've already decided in advance not to resolve these illegally appointed members of the broadcasting council. This can be seen from the debate that was being held and the report that was on the Committee. It's just that you can see that there's been a debate about some irrelevant things. One of them hit a wedge, one of them hit a record, and they didn't make a decision. Given the shortness of time, I would stick to a few things that could show the seriousness of work, both that committee and the promoter. The promoter says these eight members have chosen this ninth member, Goran Radenovic. Of those eight members, Council Chairman Nenad Cekic was elected by law. We've heard a lot about it here, and I wouldn't say it again. However, I would just like to mention some of the things that were happening on that committee, where Mr. Nino Brajovic and Mr. Bosko Ničić, a member of the Committee, is from the UNS, and Bosko Nicic is a member of the Committee, speak of the same thing in different ways. They say 38 journalists in Gracanica, Kosovo Mitrovica, have signed that Mr. Goran Radenovic has never been in Kosovo and Metohija in the past four years and that journalists have signed to confirm that and that they oppose his election. Mr. Goran Radenovic, with his statement, cheated on the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Bosko Nicic is a member of the Committee, says Mr Goran Radenovic has recently been the most active journalist in Kosovo and Metohija and is his place of residence there. Now, between the very findings of well-known journalists, one of the well-known members of the Association of Independent Journalists Nina Brajevic and Bosko Nicic need to find justice and find the true truth. Where's the truth? The truth is between what has already been seen here, and that is that DOS MPs vote with double foreign cards, that DOS MPs vote from Greece, that when DOS MPs need to flee the hall, so that there are no quorums, so that the sessions can be extended and this is how this people is bewildered and the reforms that people look forward to. Also, what you are offering to the MPs now is nothing more than a waste of time, in order to show citizens that freedom of the media can be more important than a piece of bread, than a kilo of meat you sell, and that it is more important to discuss these things that you are here today to make already the decisions you have made in advance, and therefore the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will not vote, nor will they attend this scaler.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32509	Dragisa Djokovic's MP has the word, followed by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I honestly expected today two and a half hours of time that the ruling majority have to take advantage of, or those 49 who have proposed and signed this, but it seems that the first one to sign this is the most important one, and then there is no discussion that the gentlemen who signed this and who are asking us to explain why this is being sought. To support his story, so that this would not all be collateral damage, like you were running for Miroljub Labus, and you didn't vote for him, so today this will happen and you'll vote against this. Anything can be done. You don't even have TV transmissions, you've taken over the media, you can manipulate the public, you can do anything. You can do anything you want, but you can't go as far as you want. It'll all come to an end once and for all. I hope, if that's what you suggested, you'll support it. Otherwise your defense will come to that verse where he says, "Janko defends the dead Vladislav, which defends him, when he does not defend him," and you will find this difficult to defend. Last time you voted for Goran Radenovic, a member of the Radiodifuse Council, you were told clearly and loudly that he does not live in Cosmet, that he is not professional and so on, does not meet any criteria. You voted him. You were told you could vote. Not Moma Trajkovic, because he didn't even know if he lived down there. He lives here somewhere. Most of the 126, 127, which are currently missing in the O.R., has a lot of cards, can vote for the country to be fourth. But the country will remain round, it will not be square. My lords, your friend Mr. Radenovic, your candidate says he didn't want to take UNMIK documents, as well as most Serbs from Kosovo, because he doesn't admit it, he thinks it's an occupation administration and I don't want him to have any contact with them. It goes on to say, for example, when their MPs, the DSS, from Kosovo and Metohija, like Dr Mark Jaksic, take UNMIK documents, then he will do the same. For your information, it is extremely incorrect of Radenovic to mention Mark Jaksic. For your information, Marko Jaksic is a patriot, he is a Serb and he is a real fighter, but he took UNMIK documents; and for your information, Marko Jaksic was a carrier of the DSS list and has been a council member of the Zubin Potok Municipality since November last year. Therefore, you gave Radenovic incorrect information and he deceives this people and this home. Simply, if we want to check where the gentleman was, if there is no UNMIK document, it can be checked on the Serbian polling list, where he was in 2000, where he was in September, where he voted in December 2000, etc. When the appointed president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, who is not present here, is probably too busy because he has some problems and some conflicts caused by nothing, etc., when he elaborated the story of Goran Radenovic last time, and told us that his family has made a significant contribution to democratic changes, I do not know whether this contribution to Radenovic is greater by democratic changes or a greater contribution from the appointed president of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, which he gave to democratic changes. It may be, but the honest people in the native Caglavica in Kosovo and Metohija will not appreciate something, it is ungrateful, it does not respect these contributions either to Moma Trajkovic or Goran Radenovic. The certificates he brought you from some individuals are ridiculous. You know very well that these are the certificates that come from, at least Mr. Siniša Mitrovic knows from whom they originate, whether they originate from the owner of a house rented by the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute in Gracanica, as well as a certificate of employment in Kosovo and Metohija; they are fictitious, they can bring such 10 certificates. You know how to check it out. You have an M1 form, you have an insurance application, you have a M11 form, you have an insurance checkout, you have an M4, you have an annual transfer of hours and amount of earnings, then there's a work book where you see a stamp when a working relationship is started, you have a broken working relationship, and so on. By the way, as far as education, school, and everything else is concerned, I've done a lot of computer courses, so I'll give it to you. We can't do everything in this country through courses and courses, but we simply have to use written and educated people in this country. It's just that a man, both of you and us, lied about having a law school, made sure that the man wasn't a lawyer, that he cheated, that he lied, like he lied about not living down there. All MPs from Kosovo and Metohija, such as Mr. Srecko Mitrovica and others, know very well that Radenovic does not live downstairs, and you have to vote him again, and so on. I repeat that this is not a good solution, Mr Cvetkovic and Cekic, I will not mention, except one principle remark, that such arrogant behaviour and such a lesson as we have experienced in this hall by Mr Cekic was not appropriate and I do not think that the National Scepter should agree to such, conditionalally speaking, slapping. I say once again, you can vote your proposal, vote against your proposals, but also vote that Goran Radenovic lives in Kosovo and Metohija; you can vote to live wherever you want, but he doesn't live down there, he doesn't live, he doesn't work, he doesn't have school, he doesn't have writing, he doesn't meet any of the only conditions, and he's right to have a woman who left him, for a membership in the Radiodifuse Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32511	The speech is attended by MP Milan Stanimirovic, the DOS parliamentary group, and then by MP Milan Radulovic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32512	Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I have already spoken to the Committee on Culture and Information, and I apologize in advance to those MPs who have already heard some grades on my part about this problem we have spoken about. The first thing that fell into my eyes was an anemic statement of July 3rd, in which the AEM Association Committee took the next position, and it is this way - the Association of Independent Electronic Media is most strongly opposed to having a session of the Committee on Culture and Information, scheduled for Friday 4 July, establishing facts or carrying out evidence of any candidacy and election for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Organisation. And then I showed my consternation by the fact that one of the directly interested NGOs expressed its opposition to determining the facts. I am afraid that some of the MPs today have performed with this attitude, that they are against the fact that they are being established. If we are against the fact that we are determined, how will we come to the truth, and who has no stronger arguments, is used to the facts, especially this call for fact-finding, against fact-finding, those to whom the public, i.e. presenting the truth, is a professional task, i.e. work, primarily journalists and journalists. The key question here is respect for the procedure. There I have to agree with many who have said that respect for the procedure is a necessary condition for democracy, but the course of events has shown that some other and much stronger reasons are hidden behind the requirement for respect of the procedure, I would not elaborate them more widely, because despite the fact that many are making the brides, we all know very well what this is all about. I'm afraid this was about the violent production of the affair, like many of the affairs were made backwards, and that in this way we confuse our citizens and our voters and we ask that by not determining the facts, they opt for cheerleaders, whether they're rooting for the Star or for Partizan, whether they're rooting for DSS or DS. That's what happens when we're not ready to face the truth and the fact. So, Mr. Cekic and Cvetkovic, in no way, in twice the time provided for in the legal procedure, were they challenged until today, except for the disputed procedure of their election. Mr Radenovic, who was elected by eight members of the broadcasting agency under the Broadcasting Law, was challenged. We didn't choose him, they chose him. Mr. Radenovic provided all the documentation that can be obtained. I don't know, that's what he said, which is how he can prove that he doesn't work somewhere or that he didn't work for someone. He can bring valid evidence that he's working for someone, but if he hasn't worked and he hasn't worked, I don't know who's issuing that kind of confirmation. Not to work for someone, in which way I can prove it. I'd say something, that's what I was saying on the Information Committee, about NGOs. In order to develop democracy and create civil society, an immeasurable contribution should certainly be made by these NGOs and so on. that civilian sector. I'm afraid that some NGOs, in particular, are asking for 15 members to remain, where they would have had the upper hand in the broadcasting council, slightly overestimated their role and importance, acting more like a gray economy in politics, wanting to be both conscious and conscious at the same time, and not admit a single critical point above their own perspective. Please, why are we MPs, why are we chosen and do we have any responsibility, what is our legitimacy? And the most illegal elected MP has more legitimacy than any NGO, which often comes down to one room, phone, and secretary. In public, it is systematically a real impression that at least it is the struggle of two private televisions for the national frequency, but it is becoming increasingly clear that certain circles actually want control over the public service of RTS. And I'm afraid that this kind of procedure or other reason why the challenge of candidates would be until those who are political structures are chosen. Now, the trouble is that they do not have enough majority in the Serbian Parliament to push out those candidates who would possibly be eligible as members of the council. The distribution of frequencies is, therefore, just one of the jobs that needs to be done by the Broadcasting Council, and while the political and professional public combs who are national texts, the broadcasting is increasingly failing. So, I would agree with some estimates that this is, above all, about the interest and money of the financial and ideological lobby, creating in this sense an atmosphere in the public that some institutions are against this kind of composition of the Radiodifuse Council. Today, some have tried to combine the two points envisioned in this agenda, to lustrate Cekic, Cvetkovic and Mr Radenovic from the Radiodifuse Council for a procedural error in their election, as they said. It is indisputable that failure to comply with the Law on Broadcasting is not the basis for the resolution of any member of the Broadcasting Council, a team before no objection has been made for these two candidates, as I have already pointed out, within a double period of time than anticipated. Mr Radenovic, as I have already said, has been elected by most of the eight members. Mr. Radenovic is very badly marked here. I remembered one of Vib's aphorisms that says around -- they can stick to the labels in two ways, spit on the label and stick to a man or spit on a man and stick to the label. I'm afraid many have worked in both these ways speaking of Mr Radenovic. A few questions are asked here; says - The Council is so discredited in public, it is one of the assessments; in which way it is discredited in public, they do not bear responsibility if the procedural error is made; it is not a respected deadline; please, so no one has challenged them as a person, which is why the Council would be discredited in public. He says, "Is it our interest that he didn't do the Broadcasting Council?" They accuse us of our interest in not working, those who persist in obstructing that he does not begin his work. Then why would the members of the Council suffer the consequences if the congregation failed to comply with the procedure? I wonder why they would bear the consequences of that. A re-election procedure for the entire Council is required and it is done again by those who accuse us of delaying and seducing order in this area. We have 1,400 different emitters and only one of them is campaigning against the Broadcasting Council. Come on, tell me, apart from B-92 Radio, who's making a campaign against the Broadcasting Council? He says the Council has no legitimacy or legality to make decisions. They won't have it, unless we as the Assembly that elected them challenge elected members, which is exactly what gives us the opportunity to put an end to this affair and cheerleading attitudes on this matter. We, therefore, have made a proposal here as MPs to once again discuss the candidacy of Mr Cekic, Cvetkovic and Radenovic and to allow them to begin their work. Here, Mr Cvetkovic is even at one point being challenged by the right to a critical attitude towards AEM, B-92 and so on. According to some, an ideal member of the Council would be the one who has no attitude. But I'm not surprised, this kind of rating from someone who has often expressed his views very often, with whom he did not agree after a few minutes, but has challenged them, often disagreed with his own opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32513	The word has a People's MP Milan Radulovic, the DSS parliamentary group, seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32514	Dear People's MPs, if I understand this in writing that we have received on behalf of 50 MPs of the Democratic Party, whose representative is Mr Bojan Pajtic, we are here today discussing a proposal to disband the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. However, their proposal does not literally read so, but they propose, and with this document they approach, a decision on the resolution of members of the Council: Mr Cvetkovic, Mr Radenovic and Mr President of the Council, Cekic. Since the Council has nine members, the two have resigned, the Democratic Party is demanding that these three be resolved, the Council is practically impossible to function. The Broadcasting Council is abolished under this proposal. It is strange, however, that the proposing representatives themselves are discussing against their proposal. (You, sir, are a chronicler of parliamentary life. Please note that one parliamentary group is proposing that something be voted on, and then debated against the proposal it tabled. ) To Tomislav Mr. Panayotovic? Why are you doing all this? It's for one simple reason: the situation in the media sphere is chaotic and alarming. Everyone agrees -- both representatives of this proposal and representatives of the opposition -- that in our media sphere there is a brutal, uncontrolled struggle for monopolies: ideological, cultural and financial monopolies. Whoever fights that fight, who will prevail, you don't know that. I don't want to go in here assuming who's behind what television, which radio station weighs a political party, but what I'm saying is that Serbian citizens know well that radio and television are no longer what they used to be called -- public ballots. It's a tagge in political struggles. People know very well and feel that the cultural and political level of all television stations -- starting with one that should be a public service, such as Serbia's Television, and to those of the smallest local radio stations -- is inadmissiblely low. People feel it and ask for order and rules to be introduced here once. The Order was to introduce the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. He was supposed to establish some rules that would lead the market and prevent anyone from establishing a monopoly: to prevent the government from establishing a monopoly, to prevent the ruling majority, but also any informal group, any non-governmental agency -- no one from having a monopoly, so that we could have a pluralist, democratic, diversified system of information. The council that appointed this congregation cannot perform that function. He can't do it for any more reason. First -- I think today is the time to talk about it -- because at the very beginning, the Council is disqualified by the way it was chosen. We need to discuss the Council before we discuss who is responsible for today's media situation in Serbia. She is responsible, firstly, for the Serbian government, because it took her a year and a half to propose a Law on Broadcasting. We are responsible, the National Assembly, for it took us eight months to appoint the Council, and without the Council, this law cannot be applied. They are responsible members of the Council because they were not completely honest when giving their biographies. They are responsible for proposing people who are not sure they can fulfill their roles as members of the Council. The members of the Council are also responsible for fighting, sharing, and for publicly accusing each other of succumbing to pressures from various financial and ideological lobbies. So, responsibility is on everyone. It seems to me that the greatest responsibility on us, 250 of us, is, more precisely, the hand on the heart, but still on the ruling majority here, but since we are all MPs and since the Radio-Deffusion Council chooses the Assembly, we are all responsible. We only have one way to get out of this situation with honor. We would seem to have done very well to determine that we have broken the Law that we have passed, to confirm that the Law must not be violated, to admit that we have unqualitydly executed the selection of members of the Radiodifuse Council, to make an apology to all authorised proposings, to ask them to re-propose their candidates, to send an apology to Mr Cvetkovic and Cekic for having, by breaking the Law, brought them into an unfavourable position to challenge their biographies and, of course, to ask that the applicants check their candidates before they propose them, and to open our eyes well when we vote. No harm would be done. On the contrary, it would be a great benefit for the National Assembly, through its president, to make an apology to the public, to admit a mistake, and to begin to do the job again, but this time really well. Because citizens expect order to be introduced, to know who broadcasts and how they broadcast, to set certain cultural and political standards that must apply to everyone who wants to advertise and send any kind of message to citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32515	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milovanovic, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. The remaining time is five minutes. Then the People's Messenger Pal Shandor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is the objective of the National Assembly's motion for a decision, and what is the purpose of this debate? If this issue is considered from a procedural aspect, it is clear to all that in the proposal of the members of the Broadcasting Council, the procedure has been violated in advance because the provision of the law is not respected that 30 days before the election of members of the Council is published with their biography. This is what is required by the provisions of Article 24th position of the 12th law, and as regards the election of a member of the Council, Goran Radenovic, it is mentioned that there is no respect for the provisions of Article 23 of the Law and that one person of the Council should be from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. to work and live on Kosovo and Metohija territory. It was wrong of the law to seek this condition. Why? It is important that a man, no matter who he is, as a member of the Council, does his job in accordance with the law, honestly and honestly. Of course, this condition was not to be set up under the law, and the election of members of the Council from Kosovo and Metohija itself could have been applied and respected, so that one person from the southern Serbian province could be found a member of the Radiodifuse Council. Of course the procedure you've violated can't be fixed by any discussion. It is only possible to repeal the decision, to put out of force, to re-establish the procedure, i.e. the procedure for selecting members of the Radio-Delefuz Council, and from a fundamental point of view, the issue that today is discussed for us in the Serbian Radical Page is less important if the personal composition of the Council of the Republic Radio-Delefusing Agency is observed. Whether or not someone will be more obedient to political orders, it is less important. Whether someone will argue over money from donations, whether part of these donations will go into private pockets, whether Nenad Cekic will criticise Veran Matic for the money he went to for TV B92 or not, it is less important, as well as whether the money from donations for the development of local television in Nis, Television 5, will be directed to increase the production capacity of the roasting and coffee processing in Sokobanja, the main and responsible editor of this television, is equally less important. It is important for members of the Council to be honorable people, to respect the legal provisions, and to do honest work for them. Of course you've raised media dust on all of this. You could see a large number of cameramen, reporters, journalists in the Assembly building during the day. I don't think that much interest would be present if it were to discuss a national and national issue. The legal basis for the resolution, the reason for the application for resolution, does not exist in any case, when it comes to Cekic, and Cvetkovic and Radenovic. What's the real point of all this? The real aim of the Law on Broadcasting and the Councilradiodifu Agency and the members of the Council is to be in the role of carrying out the will of the non-national, illegal majority in the National Assembly and the group of people who exercise executive power. This, in fact, you want to empower, to strengthen, legalize the illegal choice of this member of the Council. Will the Council, after its formation, propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to direct the meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? That it is true that this is only a farce, where you have alternatives, or counter-proposals, since these three members of the Council need to be resolved for the election of new members of the Council. This was done by order of Mauricio Masari, head of the OSCE in Belgrade. The main goal of all of this is to clear up the media space before the next elections, so that you can't hear the word of those who think otherwise, political opponents, and above all of us from the SRS. That, of course, cannot prevent us from revealing to the citizens part of the true nature of your government and the manipulations you serve. One part of the nature of your government is well known to citizens, and that is the standard of living, that is the misery and poverty in which you have drawn the citizens of Serbia and the hungry belly of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32517	The word has the People's Messenger Pal Shandor. The next person registered for the word is MP Momcilo Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32518	Dear colleagues, of course, I'm unhappy that there is no Mr. Andric. He was lurking around the hall today rather than listening to what the messengers were saying. I don't think that's a decent attitude towards MPs, when we're discussing an issue that falls within the jurisdiction of his board. I want to tell him officially from the pay phone what I think, not in the hallway in private, because we're not in private communication. I'd like to say this: I think the whole job's been done with no respect for the procedure or the muscles. Indeed, we at DOS don't need to do it that way. We can do it elegantly, finely and legally, as God commands and rightly so. If the procedure is the basis of democracy, we did not respect the procedure. When you're in a civil suit and you're late with the appeal one day, then the judge tells you, "I'm sorry, you didn't file a complaint in due time." We didn't stick to that timetable here, the term that predicted the law itself. I don't understand at all why we're discussing whether these three members are controversial, when they're all controversial and they're all elected in a way that the law doesn't allow and within a time limit that it doesn't allow. It has been published in the "Official Messenger" since 11 April 2003. They cannot be elected on 11 April 2003 because they had to be elected by 27 October. The second thing, the Assembly itself violated the procedure because it did not publish its two members within 45 days, as provided for in Article 23. And we are one of the promoters who has to announce his candidates within 45 days of the law's entry into force. The law was published on 18, eight days of entry into force - July 27th. Since July 27, 45 days have passed when the Assembly must present its candidates. Then, in the next 45 days, he has to make an appointment, of which 30 days must be made public to see who is proposed. That Article 24, paragraph 12, says very precisely that the Assembly will, in a convenient manner, publish all valid candidates. Has the Assembly published lists and valid candidates? It's not. Who posted it? They were published by the one who suggested it. The assembly, probably in "The Voice," or I don't know what's meant by "the right way," should have said -- candidates for the Radio-Difusion Council are you, you and you. Therefore, the law provides for our obligation to publish a list of candidates. We didn't do it. Article 13 says, "The Parliament can organise a public conversation to gain insight into their abilities." If the Assembly had held a public debate about their insight into their abilities, then we wouldn't be in a situation where we are now, to talk about whether they are suitable or not, whether they have falsified diplomas or not. Thus, the congregation did a whole series of oversights, violations, simply did not stick to the terms. I think the only way out of all of this is with members 114 and 115 being violated. One who submits an amendment in the Assembly, when the deadline passes, cannot be on the agenda, not the election of members of the Broadcasting Council. I think the debate we've been having today is completely impeccable, and the way out seems to me in the following: that the Assembly finds that the members of the RadioDifusion Council have not been elected, even those who are indisputable. They are not selected because they have been selected within a time limit that cannot be selected. Then the next step should be for the Assembly, committee or someone to propose one member and amend this law, and to say - if within the prescribed time limit the choice has not been made, the legal procedure will be repeated. We can change the articles 114 and 115 there, so we can shorten that deadline, but somehow we need to take a selection of members of the Broadcasting Council into some orderly process. If that doesn't happen, we will constantly have a conflict between ourselves and politics, that always someone will doubt these people and their choice and always someone will ask the question of legitimacy. And I have to say, in other transition countries, there are radio-distributive advices and frequency-sharing conflicts, as we have them, but there's a 30-day deadline there, people are being brought to their attention. They were, to say, publicly "lustrated", checked and selected, what someone here suggested, two-thirds of the majority. Why the two-thirds majority? Because it is necessary for those who are the opposition today, and those who are in position, to reach some consensus that the Radiodifuge Council is not lax and that it does not change from political consolidation to political consolidation. I am convinced that there are people in Serbia who can get a two-thirds majority here in the Assembly, if we have a debate in the right way and talk for a month about those nine candidates who satisfy both sides. You can't convince me that in Serbia all of us in this assembly can't agree, it doesn't have to be a two-thirds majority, and I said that this would be good for the stability of this council, its reputation and its neutrality, but to discuss it publicly for a month about people, to see who these people are. If the Information Committee, as it has not, had heard and organized, as the law provides, and he has not done, people who are supposed to be members of the Broadcasting Council, we would not be in this situation today. Now, when we cannot respect their decisions, nor can we change them, I think it is only wise to stop and apologize to them, I am very close to what my colleague Radulovic says, that there is no connection from which he is party, because his proposal is reasonable, to be honest with ourselves, because we will have to deal with politics in five years. We can't always do everything on the muscles. I know we have a majority, but most people aren't always enough to have a conscience in peace. We should say, we were wrong, the members of the Broadcasting Council didn't choose to go back to that process. Of course, it can happen, that's what politics is, that those proposed by the congregation majority are back on the list. It's supposed to be done, of course, but in the law, it's meant to be done. I don't argue that we can organize that majority, that most of us can win and that they will be again, but then first of all, it's not a game of democracy, and then no one in that procedure can slow you down. So, you have to beat your political opponents, but in a procedure that is predictable in the legal way. Of course, we came to an even more absurd situation that at the moment of the election some members were known for more than 30 days, they were known for seven months, and that some members were known for two days. We got them one day before we voted for them. It's against the law. So he can't do it for two days and he can't do it for seven months. Therefore, I think that this broadcasting council is neither legal nor legitimate and that we should be re-elected in the way that will cause the least passion and should call on the promoters, if possible, to stay with the candidates they propose, and then we will, of course, organise ourselves, and we will already vote on those people we think should be voted on, but the situation can clearly be overcome in a legal way so that we say that we have broken our own law. In this case, the assembly has violated its own law. The government would have been strong and got good points to say - good people, we were wrong. We didn't look, we had a lot of things to do, other things happened. Let's get back in that procedure and no one's getting the crown off their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32519	The word is made by MP Momcilo Trajkovic. There's no sign of word anymore, but the bosses are picking up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32520	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really wouldn't have anything else to say but what I said in the first debate. I believe that the criterion, which is incorporated into the law, is wrong, because it is possible to be an MP from Kosovo and Metohija, not to live in Kosovo and Metohija, but to represent that people, and it is impossible to be a member of the Council, the Radiodifuse Council, and not to meet, for example, that criterion. Let me repeat, apart from knowing the family and Mr. Goran Radenovic personally, I have no other argument than that he has an apartment in Pristina and that I have seen him in central Kosovo and Metohija, but to repeat once again that I was not obliged, as you were not obliged, to follow if anyone lives down and how long. If anyone asks me how long I live in Kosovo and Metohija now, I have to tell you very little. I'm living for two to three days right now. I spend all the rest of my time here in central Serbia, or Belgrade. Therefore, whoever lives and lives and how, where he works and what the job is, whether the job is related to Kosovo or beyond, these are questionable issues. We should rely on the arguments and documents Mr Radenovic has submitted and if they are false there are organs through which it will be determined. I think it's the right way to solve a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32521	There are no more entries for the word according to the list, but there are, of course, registered for the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used this right in Article 89. The first to be declared is MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then MP Vladimir Garcevic, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32522	Ladies and gentlemen, just a few sentences, because we've spent so many days on this, it's simply that no law deserves as much attention as it deserves, it turns out, this advice. We were essentially talking here, when it was on the agenda of the Broadcasting Act, that this law was set on the wrong ground and that it would cause huge consequences during its application. Here's a year after that, we're actually testing the consequences of the poorly-produced Law on Broadcasting. However, I have a dilemma here, and I have talked to a number of MPs. I do not understand how this issue was found on the agenda, we are now considering it, and why it is so important that there are 43 MPs who have been given the opportunity to discuss this initiative in the Assembly, and some other initiatives, much more important, that come from MPs, have not come to the agenda. I know, we filed a request or a proposal a few months ago, a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, and by which the request is now less important than the debate on the confidence of the members of the Radioconfusive Council. How come now the request for a debate on this, on the members of the Broadcasting Council, comes on the agenda, and that the request to discuss the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, which we have tabled here, and that even the representatives of the government, including the Prime Minister, have all declared themselves, have all supported and is not on the agenda. What is the difference and what is the privilege of this issue with regard to members of the Council? As for the members of the Council, we do not hide, as we are called in public whether we voted, we voted for Goran Radenovic. Not just for Goran. I'd vote for Milisav, I'd vote for all my ex-youths. Milisav was young and today I see in the paper that Tufegdzic, Mitrovic, was also, and when Mitrovic was a candidate and for him we will, he was my youth activist, Pavlovic, the same when he was, they were all my youth activists. It's true, I was president of youth and it's logical and fair to vote for them, and so is Goran. Goran was the president of Pristina's youth and so we voted for him. There's no dilemma. I've trained them well and they'll do it well. Pal Shandor was a stockholder, too. That's not the problem. That's the point and point of this story. We of course voted for Goran, we can't vote against, but let's open one story, and it's tied to the next item of the agenda. What is the importance of the Vodnelic family? I have to say that because of this waterelić family, we've been talking here for days and hours. The father's a member of the Broadcasting Council, so he needs to lustrate some for the frequency. A woman, a wife, I see she's proposing here for lustration, to lustrate politically. A daughter to lustrate those on radio-television. Is there anyone else in the family? How about we suggest on the agenda that a council be formed for the Serb conscience and that this family be among the members of the Serb conscience council and resolve the issue of this family, that we no longer deal with this family here in the Assembly. Is there another member of that family that isn't proposed here in the Assembly for something we need to deal with? However, this advice by Serbs should be extended to Kandić, Sonja Biserko and Biljana Vučo, and I think it would be a good advice for the Serb conscience and we would then resolve all the issues here in the Assembly, to finally get on our feet, to finally talk about something else. As you chose these members of the council, you will taste it. We don't touch them. Your problem is how you choose them, keep them safe, keep them safe. Even when we come to power we won't touch them, let them be 100 years as far as I'm concerned, you've chosen them so well, and those who resigned, they shouldn't have accepted to be and it's a good thing they resigned. They have a happy trip, and I hope none of those names will be found at the government, let alone on congregation proposals here and finally let us see about something else. Here, you see, someone said that in the next three weeks the privatisation of state media should begin, to submit a proposal for local media, how to privatize. At the same time, some state institutions, including local self-government, are making local media. How come now? On the one hand, in three weeks, the privatisation of these media should begin, and on the other hand, money is being invested in the municipal environments for the creation of these media. Does anyone coordinate and do you actually know who's doing what in this congregation and even by verticality when it comes to the law? I know Bogdanovic knows what he's going to privatize in Belgrade, which he won't, but I'm talking about these lower local levels and, therefore, let's see who else you're going to lustrate by all these laws, make a list, and then let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32523	The word is given by MP Vladimir Garcevic, authorised representative of the Socialist People's Party, and then by MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32524	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow MPs, I find it surprising that we are discussing this today, that 700,000, 800,000 dinars are being spent today for the whole day, so we are discussing what we once discussed. If the Assembly was wrong in the procedure, the task is not to follow procedure. The task of the MPs is to consider the quality of the people who are coming and therefore to be declared on the basis of the data they receive. But the essence of things is something else here. You, comrades dear, in the DOS, complete, got money from abroad, you funded yourself from there and the media funded from there, transferred Radio London and Glass America, and Kragujevac, and the local media and these and them. The invested huge money needs one who invested for years in the previous period to continue to master Serbia's media. Now that you've broken down a little bit within the DOS, we need to redistribute the political forces, and we have a general conflict of politicians over who will be members of the council. What does that mean? That means no one cares whether it will be better to inform Serbian citizens and whether the Serbian people will have a chance to see this assembly and once again be transferred, it is not about which of the money, illegally acquired, gets better frequencies. We, as a parliamentary group, voted in favour of this proposal. It is not our idea, nor the MP's group, to change our attitudes in two days. In view of this, I also attended that session that was in the big hall, the board session, which confirmed what we knew, that the big money had been brought into the bags here into the country of Serbia, which we knew before. These money has been used everywhere, and the boss has to pay back the debt. This debt should be paid back by Vodalić and the society, which appears and which should condemn everything politically, and here the media should give. This Veran Matic was in America for so long. There is Soroš with him, so Soroš is with our Prince, who needs to finish his education, and when you see it, something is being created. Comrades, if you can't make a deal, then there's one solution, I'll take over as a member of the council, I'll work honestly and honestly, and I'll give the frequencies by law. Therefore, it is a solution when you have no other option. You can't, because you don't trust each other. As for whether someone lives in Kosovo or not, leave it for the media, that struggle politically, let's see that the people have nothing to live on and that they are hungry, that's the essence, and that's what this assembly should do and open up the media space for all of us to Serbian citizens to hear what we're doing here. We, if there is a vote, will vote for what we voted for 15 or 20 days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32525	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32526	Since these problems can no longer be hidden, it is a good thing this debate took a little while and we had the opportunity to hear the MPs of DOS reform, and the rest, too. It's a good thing almost everyone has confirmed that there's been some mistake in the procedure, as some say. Because of this procedure, we're discussing today. Now, if there's a consensus that there's a mistake in the procedure, then we have to answer the question, and who is it that brings us back to the subject after three months to the selection of members of the broadcasting agency's council. Of course, if the Law on Broadcasting is looked at, it can be seen that several members mention the Assembly, but only in two places is the President of the Assembly in Article 27 and Article 31. When the Law says that a congregation is thought of, as to the guarantee that the election process and the resolution will be in accordance with the law. If we call for help from our Rules of Procedure, then by Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly. Article 28 states what the president of the National Assembly is doing, and the other thing is said, everything he is authorized to do under the law. If you look at Article 65, you can see that the Committee on Information and Culture has some competences, he's wondering about something, but it's not a working body that needs to publicly announce all the applications. Since the Legislative Committee has come to the conclusion that there is some procedural interference over the elections and what the National Assembly is doing, all the failures of procedures are essential infringements of the procedure, there are no relative ones, there are no non-essential ones. The fact that 30 days have not been put into public view all the data on candidates is a major violation of the procedure and we today cannot establish a legal state by an illegal election, which took place several months ago. A few days ago, it also expired three months ago and it is quite obvious that the broadcasting council is not working for three months, and other conditions have been concluded for their collective resolution, because we, in practice, do not have that broadcasting advice. As far as the resignations are concerned, the one who proposed those candidates who resigned immediately is required to submit a new proposal and the deadline expires, as it is three months. This resolution today is insignificant and will not correct the situation in the broadcasting council, and this is the goal of the overall initiative on the resolution and return of this agenda. What's the point? Obviously, after this debate today, and no matter what decision it takes, the broadcasting council somehow collects five members and tries to do something. But, again, there will be objections to anything to do. So, the broadcasting council won't be here until further notice, and those who are interested will keep their monopoly position. How long? To some new elections, to the change of some authorities and to the establishment of new principles and new rules. It is said here that two members whose resolution is proposed cannot bear the consequences of some mistake stemming from the National Assembly. They can bear the consequences and have to bear the consequences and bear the consequences, not affect them, but hit us and hit an institution called the advice of a broadcasting organisation. The fact that these two or three months represented members of a council, and apparently unlawfully chosen, does not mean that they have acquired some personal rights, so now that their acquired rights cannot be affected by them. They don't have any acquired rights. They were elected to public office and to do public work. The fact that they are in this council, it is a public matter, it is subject to review and it is subject to other ways of managing their choice and working with the law. They don't want to work on that advice, because they can't make a deal. That advice does not surprise me, too, that a man with a black mantle sits in such a society. What's that interest that forces him to play a member of an organ that doesn't exist. Whether someone has been delegated or not, he does not belong in that council, because that advice has discredited itself. All those who have commented on this advice do not practically want that advice to work. There's some installed interference in the law itself, in the very idea. The idea is clearly imposed, and the state does not want to take responsibility for the situation either in the media or in the distribution of frequencies. So, the result of this debate today could probably be something else that's illegal, but there's only one thing that would be legal after this debate, which is to determine who's responsible in the National Assembly that the procedure was violated in the election of members of the Broadcasting Council. We, if we do not resolve the matter, will always return for the Lustration Commission and other committees and for all the laws passed by this National Assembly. For the past three or four months, we've been having a debate about the same laws. Organized crime, criminal law, war crimes, prosecutions, courts, elections, resolution, and that's what MPs are having fun with, so they don't go to their seats, so they don't hold the rallys and invite the people and show the people what the structure is and what the essence of this government is. Someone said that many countries have gone through a transition and have not had problems like this with their objective, impartial body for the distribution of frequencies. They probably didn't have any problems like we did. We have them because this furniture of people who are in power, it came out under one rail. That's that vest that was treading here, that was pulling a mustache, that was chasing, that was confiscating, denationalization, etc. It's this structure of people who think nothing's changed. There goes one who held the monopoly. Word is we can't pick nine. We can't. Why? Because there is no democratic standard, because tolerance is rarely understood. Here tolerance is understood as the obligation of one who is imprisoned to be calm, not as the obligation of one who is powerful, who is strong, and who holds the power to give in for the sake of the common good. While this is how tolerance is interpreted, as media travels, as every public word is shut down, haunts opposition and financial and otherwise, there will be no progress, there will be no broadcasting advice, there will be no lustration committee, but you yourself will lute yourself to persecute yourself. Do it, just know it's primal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32527	People's MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group, reportedly, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32528	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 81. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest that today's session be held up to 20 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32529	I am putting on the vote by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform to extend our working hours to 20 hours. For 78, against 31, did not vote 46 (50.3% voted). So, a proposal by MP Bojan Pajtic was accepted to extend his working hours to 20.00 hours. I ask if any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are applying for this item of the agenda? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, I ask the motionary's representative if he wants the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a single search on the motions for decisions and we will decide in the day to vote on this item of the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a selection of members of the Committee for the Examining of Responsibilities for the Infractions of LjuDIC Rights I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit the lists with a statement on this item of the agenda. You have received a proposal to elect members of the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations, submitted by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Natasa Micic. In addition to the proposal, you have also received short work biographies from all proposed candidates. Before opening a single search, allow me first to explain the proposal. Article 22 The law on liability for human rights violations provides for the establishment of a Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations, as an independent and independent body, which conducts a lustration procedure against persons laid down by that law, determines the violation of human rights in a manner determined by that law and sets out the measures provided for in that law. Article 23 The law stipulates that the Commission has nine members, three of whom are members of Serbia's Supreme Court Judges, three members -- prominent legal experts, one member -- a member of the republic's public prosecutor and two members -- MPs who are graduate lawyers, and are not elected from the same election lists. Members of the Commission are proposed by the President of the National Assembly so that at least two candidates must be proposed for each place in each group and selected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by a secret vote. I remind you that the total time for the debate is five hours. Once again, I ask the MPs' groups to submit the lists of those reported for this agenda item. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal to elect members of the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations. Does the Proposer's representative want to take a word for it? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32530	The word is proposed by the MP Natasa Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32531	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, under the Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, I am obliged, and it has been an honor to propose to the members of the Commission to examine the responsibility for human rights violations. By respecting that legal obligation and the deadline provided for, I have drawn up a proposal that lies before you today. According to the proposal, there are four groups of candidates for the election of members. The first group, these are the judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and having confidence and respect for the Supreme Court institution, because I think it is a prerequisite for the development of institutions, I have asked their opinion and I have received from the Supreme Court of Serbia the proposals I have made to you. First, Mrs. Vida Petrovic - Shkero. I'd like to note that she was on the media, which I found out yesterday, by the way, by the telegram, which I received this morning at around 10:30, she gave up her candidacy. Please, I respect you when you speak. Mrs. Vida Petrovic - Škero, unfortunately, gave up on the candidacy; the damage, otherwise I would vote for it, because it stands for lustration, but it is an expression of the general weakness of this society, that we often advocate something, and when we need to take responsibility, then we find some reason to stay away, that it is easier for us to advise or criticize. The next candidates are Mrs. Sonja Manojlovic, then Mrs. Jelena Borovac, Mrs. Vera Pesic, Mr. Vladimir Tamas and Mr. Miroslav Letic. By candidates from the republican prosecutor's office, Mr Bogdan Stankovic and Mrs Maja Stefanovic were proposed. The third group of candidates are candidates who are prominent legal experts and on this proposal I consulted the professors of the Faculty of Law, professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences, as well as NGOs, such as the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights, the Committee of Human Rights, and two of the proposed members of the Palgo Centre, which is also an NGO. So, candidates from prominent legal experts are: 1) Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakić - Vodanelic; 2) Prof. Dr. Mijat Damjanović; 3) Prof. Dr. Dobrosav Mitrovica; 4) Dr. Tamas Korhec; 5) Vlasimir Janković and 6) Mr. Mirjana Jovanovic - Tomic. The fourth group of candidates are MPs, and according to Article 23 paragraph 3 they need to be candidates from different electoral lists. I have proposed the following MPs, of course with the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's reform was no problem, I am pleased to say that more candidates have applied than I should, and I am sorry that I could not put in the proposal. So DOS candidates are MP Sima Radulovic, the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, who is otherwise one of the legislators and the other is MP Srdjan Sikimic, the DOS parliamentary group - the Democratic Alternative. We've got a problem, it's a proposal for candidates from opposition parliamentary groups. I therefore held consultations with all the heads of parliament's groups and unfortunately refused to propose all opposition groups, including the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. I think it's, I can express my position, very bad for the opposition. First, because it's a very bad strategy for politicians of the J.J.I. century, to advocate human rights in words, often here for a pay phone, we can hear from the opposition a great push for human rights, and when it comes to taking part in questioning and respecting the same, of course, works are gone. So, one is words, the other are deeds, and I'm sorry that's the case. Another reason why I am sorry that the opposition did not accept my proposal, namely candidates Zoran D. Nikolic and Petar Petrovic gave up on the candura, is one demonstration, or demonstration of the disrespect of an institution such as the Assembly, and very often here we advocate the development of institutions and others, disrespect of the law, and very often here, with these speakers, opposition leaders, as well as others, advocate respect for the law and rule of law. In any case, of the 18 candidates, 15 gave their consent. I hope that all candidates are good, that you will choose the best among them, and that is very important, because this commission has a very serious, responsible and significant job, it is a solution to a very sensitive problem, which, above all, I am convinced, is a priority of state interest. I am convinced that our citizens, like myself, are primarily defined for justice, or for dealing with responsibility, the past, and the truth above all other interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32532	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) National MP Petar Petrovic, authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32533	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I now appear in a double role, as vice president of the Assembly Group of the Soviets, and at the same time as an MP who was proposed to be on the committee for determining responsibility for human rights violations or popularly speaking, in the Lustration Commission. The reason why the parliamentary group of the Soviet Union and in writing informed the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Natasa Micic, that it did not want to give its representative to this commission and that it did not want to work on this committee, were also presented when the Law on Human Rights was adopted, when we also said in the discussion that we were not in this law. We expressed this when voting, when it was decided to accept, or not to accept this law, because we believe this law will not make a better deal for the citizens of Serbia. We are not against it, I would like to say once again that every citizen of Serbia, no matter what political option it belonged to or belongs to, who has committed human rights violations to anyone, but today we believe that there are other competent state authorities who will determine whether or not someone has violated human rights and therefore bear certain consequences. We from the Soviet Parliament group are at the top of our heads, so I have to use that folk term, these commissions from the communist and socialist period, because we think that whenever we don't have a good solution to some problem, we form a commission to separate things. It's the rest of the old regimes that we're fighting, and that's why I think that commissions are not a solution, but that they're a solution to state authorities. That's when it comes to the position of the Soviet Parliament group. When it comes to my personal position, I made it very clear and unequivocally said and wrote to the National Assembly's president on 11 this month, that under the name of Petar Petrovic, I do not want to participate in the work of the commission to determine human rights violations or the Lustration Commission. And I'm glad that my opinion is finally respected, because I think it's democratic to ask, before it's proposed for something, whether or not it wants to work on that commission. This is not fear of working in that commission or of running away from responsibility, but only the principled position I have expressed as the position of the Soviet Parliament group. In the hope that when some other committees and bodies are proposed, and not the commission, they will be respected and the will of whoever is proposed, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32534	We continue the debate according to applications for the president's word, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. National MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke. And according to the Rules of Procedure, you wanted to? Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32535	On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I wanted to state my position on this proposal, to point out something that is also in our Rules of Procedure, that is Article 133(2), and the Law you are calling on as a proposal in Article 23 is very precise and clear and it says - members of the Commission are proposing the President of the National Assembly so that for each place in each group, it is set out in the position of the 1st member, it must propose at least two candidates. That means we can't work unless there are 18 candidates. We have been informed by the motionor that the first candidate from the Supreme Court sub-list has given up. We have also received information from you that the two members whom you have proposed from the order of the Messengers of the people have also given up. Now we have two members from a group of MPs here, but they were on the same electoral list, and Mr Radulović and the other one, they're also from the DOS parliamentary group, the single DOS, it's the same electoral list, and it wouldn't be good if we're having a debate now, we're talking about some things, and we already have something in the beginning that's a violation of education. Secondly, you know, we're very uncomfortable when you go out for a pay phone and say something that's absolutely not true. The SRS received your act at 16.40 p.m. asking us to propose candidates for this commission. No one has consulted or asked us, and this material was scrutinized on Friday or Saturday, to push it quickly, to start with this session. Please listen to this Rules of Procedure, you see, it's a good thing we're all calling on the Rules of Procedure right now, it's a good thing we admit when it's wrong, so we don't come back to the situation to admit mistakes. Please postpone this item of the agenda because neither of these prescribed terms nor the Rules of Procedure are met and such a proposal must be in the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32536	Under the Law on Liability for Human Rights, it is necessary for the members of the commission to propose the President of the National Assembly, so that at least two candidates must be proposed for each place in each group, and as far as the MPs are concerned, these are two members, MPs who are graduate lawyers and are not elected from the same electoral lists. That's the kind of proposal I put together. So you have two candidates, one of whom is selected from the DOS electoral list and you have a proposal for two candidates from different opposition lists, one of which is also elected; later, there are nine lawyers here from opposition parties, none agreed, but, of course, the obstruction of the opposition cannot be a condition for destruction, i.e., I'm sure the opposition can't depend on whether the commission is formed or not. I'm sorry the opposition didn't have so much hearing that at least it took part in the commission so that it could have insight into the commission's work and sort of control of the commission. However, since the opposition's strategy is only destruction, I say, on the basis of the law I have drawn up the proposal, they subsequently gave up, by saying that Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero said that her consent was not taken into account, but I say, I respect the institution, the Serbian Supreme Court has sent me this proposal and she remains as a candidate, and she is bound by the Law of Liability for Human Rights, because as the Supreme Judge, she would not be able to choose whether she will prosecute or prosecute and have obligations in the capacity of the judge, which she has been ordered by law. Thank you. I think you're satisfied with my exhaustive response. I ask the Administrative Committee, since the MP is not satisfied with my response, to reply to the remarks for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament of the People, Zoran Krasic. I ask, do they want to take part in the debate of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32537	Given the interpretations of the laws that we are witnessing in this assembly more and more often, which are contrary to all the known rules of interpretation of the law, and here is one of the most recent I have heard, which is quite interesting, that someone is against their will, because he is a member of an organ, can be on the list, and if it is against it, there is something new to me. Certainly both the university and the Serbian Supreme Court will know that it appreciates this contribution to the court theory and the case law enforcement practice, i.e. the exercise of law. Here we are talking about rights, the use and violation of rights, and we are contesting the right of a Serbian Supreme Court member to say whether he will or won't do anything. We force him to be on the list, he can be elected even though he's against it, and we're talking about a law that needs to sanction a violation of the law. So it's more than funny and contradictory, that way we can even discuss this. How can we discuss a proposal that is incomplete? How will the commission work if it's incomplete? That's almost impossible. We're doing some things here again that are completely inappropriate and completely incomprehensible. As Mrs. Shkero, since you said that you would vote for her and she would be on the list, here's to say that others will vote, she will be elected, and she specifically said before the act came to the agenda that she did not give consent to be a candidate. If she's chosen to work, will she work, if we pass her will we put her there and violate her right to plead on the jobs she wants to do. We here violate her right to determine if she will do anything, we put her on the list for this commission that needs to sanction human rights violations, and we violate her right and her plea. Where does that make sense? Of course, there is no logic, nor in many other things that are happening in this congregation. The Democratic Party of Serbia did not give its candidate for this commission, since we were against the Law on Human Rights or the popularly called lustration law, believing that it was too late and that the issue of lustration in the countries of the former Socialist bloc was quite controversial and the results of the lustration were devastating. They're almost gone. We also highlighted statements by Adam Mihnik and Vaclav Havel regarding lustration in their countries, Poland and the Czech Republic. Since they are among the most prominent dissidents at the time, they too had every right to raise and open the issue of lustration in those countries. When the lustration issue opens up victims of communist regimes, it is something that is quite acceptable and when they demand that it be sanctioned Ali, they later said that the lustration has become the same and has not produced adequate results. It's something to listen to, but when the lustration issue opens up those who were part of the communist regime, then the question is what is the point. Are they going to lute themselves? This is where Mr. Angelkovic mentioned some of his colleagues from the Alliance of Socialist Youth. It's okay. Will they be the object of lustration? We'll see. Why in 1976 and why not a period earlier? Why should professors who kicked out professors from the Law School, who opposed the 1974 Constitution and who were only cleaned up for it? Why would anyone want to amnesty to those professors? Why would someone amnesty those who were sent to prison, from Glog Island, to everything that was going on until 1976? We know that it was, perhaps most before 1976. Will those who took the mustache take the property and everything else be the object of lustration? Of course not, because it happened before 1976. Then what are we talking about? Here we narrow down the period from 1976 to this moment, and beyond, but by 1976 we all amnesty and those who have violated human rights by 1976, and there have been many, you will be completely amnesty, they will be clean to deal with politics. Then what did we do? What did we do? Is it more sacred to us in 1976, when the UN Charter was brought in? (President: colleague, please return to the agenda, since the Lustration Act was on the agenda at a regular session and we heard all your arguments. ) In view of the composition of the commission, we pointed out objections to the members of the commission even then, that the Supreme Court judges could not be on the committee, since the appeal against the commission's decision is brought to that particular court. We have a conflict of interest here. How is a judge going to judge something if it's his colleague or if he was involved in it himself? It is totally unacceptable, in this way, to resolve complaints against the Commission's decision. Also, a commission like this doesn't get much. Simply, judges can't be chosen twice in this congregation for something. They were once elected judges of the Supreme Court, and now we're re-elected into another body, we're still choosing them without their consent, and what someone says is that they may not know, or have given consent. How they're gonna fill in the blanks. If so far three candidates, from 18, have cancelled or failed to agree, the question should be whether they were asked whether they were there, or whether they were asked and waited for their answer to accept the candidacy. Maybe someone asked them, and they said, well, I'll think about it, and then it was considered an acceptance of the candidacy. If they were asked, and they initially gave consent, and now they've withdrawn consent, then it's inconclusive and playing with the President of the Assembly and this assembly, if they've already done so. If they have not done so and are not questioned and put on this list, and then someone says they must be on that list because the Supreme Court of Serbia or someone else has proposed it, and the president to us, then it is an extremely controversial and threatening of their rights. Not every judge of Serbia's Supreme Court has to have a positive view of the lustration law. Well, the rest of the DOS didn't all have the same attitude and not all voted for the Lustration Act. We don't have to clone the Supreme Court judges here, that everyone has to accept the Lustration Act, that everyone has to support all decisions of the Assembly and that the judges don't think for themselves. Then why do we choose them, if we already know in advance what decisions they will make? Then it is enough to make these decisions here and to strike the Supreme Court seal and say it is the decision of the Supreme Court of Serbia. There is no mechanism here to fill empty spaces, will the commission be established without those blanks and one very important question - does the party's membership discredit anyone to be a member of this committee? Yeah, I think he's discrediting. If one is a prominent member of a party and if one is a member of the main committee or other party bodies, then it disqualifies him to be a member of this committee. I think the promoter had to at least take care of it, if he's already proposing a commission to deal with human rights violations, make sure they're people who aren't party members. Of course, everyone has the right to their political opinion, to plead, but not to be a member of the party. It also gives the impression that he may not be objective and that he may not take care of how he treats someone else and members of his party. I remind you that there are a lot of those who attended the 8th session, who were next to Milosevic, along with Stambolic, along with some other currents, defeated and winners at the 8th session, who graduated from the kumrov school and everything else. How, then, will the members of these parties treat their party colleagues who would be struck by lustration? That's why it's not good for party members to be on this committee. I don't think that's the happiest solution and that the promoter had to take care of it. Since we see here that judges of the Supreme Court are sitting both in the Commission and in the Supreme Court that decides on the appeal, since we have in mind that the commission is doing some investigative actions, such as the MUP, since we have in mind that the suspension of the basic constitutional principle of limitations that exists since Rome's right, this commission will have a great burden of responsibility. I'll continue for the next 10 minutes. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) I said I've been going on for another 10 minutes. Simply, this commission, so incomplete, without consent, I think it was essential that we get the consent of all the members of the commission, as it does in the election for other functions, where we get the written consent to agree to this job that it does. This way, we don't know if this body will come back to life, whether it can or won't be able to establish itself. This law is well contradictory, does not fill the legal gaps already in the first step, when the commission was elected, and that is whether the commission can be established if not all members are elected, is the absence of an opposition representative in that commission something that can seriously compromise the work of that commission, is that party member only in the commission or party members "experts", through "experts" that we have party members entering? Are all these certain facts that make it impossible for the independent and objective work of the commission and its constitution at all? Can the commission be established if, for example, from the Supreme Court of Serbia, five candidates compete for three seats, if we know we need at least two candidates for one place? Will we be able to, with the knowledge that Mrs. Shkero won't run, is that appropriate for us to decide? Is that fact we know, that she won't run, more measured than the fact that the president of the assembly says she has to run? What does she have to run for, because she is the Supreme Court of Serbia's judge? Why does she have to run and why would she take the fact into account when I vote and why would a statement by someone not to be a member of the commission be weaker or less than the speaker of the assembly that someone must be a member of that committee? Are we going to try here to protect the right of the one who refused to be a member or are we going to try to make sure that here, for who knows which time, we are ultimately interpreting the law and bring us into a situation, as well as at the Broadcasting Council, when we warned that the law is being broken, that it takes 30 days, that we are going to do the opposite of the law here again? I don't think that's a good solution, and that's how this commission's work is completely compromised, and if we start from the beginning like this, what authority is going to have a commission that can't be built because there aren't all the members? Let's ignore the part where the opposition might want to obstruct the commission's work or not participate in this because it didn't vote for the law, about this thing that's not a classical political matter, some law or some other commission, it's something that's very important. Let's ignore that and take into account how the commission will be established when, in the election of members of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the criteria laid down by the law adopted here are not respected. How can this commission work properly? Will someone dispute the commission's work on that basis? That's one thing. Second, various requirements for the constitutionality of this law have been filed, so we need to see how all this works. Of course, DSS MPs will not declare themselves on the members of this committee, since we did not support the law. There is an objection which we have made and in the debate over the law, that members of such a commission, which has the task of questioning human rights violations, such as members of the Broadcasting Council, should be elected by an absolute majority in this assembly. They are chosen by most of the total number of MPs present, which is one factor that is not negligible. There's going to be another store, revotes -- you let me take Tamash Korhec's menu, which was proposed by the League, I'll vote for you who was proposed by the GSS, you let me do this, I'll vote this one for you and we'll get another classic political trade on a very delicate matter. When things are solved that way, it's always the same as what it was meant to be, and it gets its opposite, not the essence that it should be, to really investigate all the human rights violations that have been, but not since 1976, but since 1945, and all the shootings that have occurred since then. If it is necessary from the trial of Draži Mihajlovic, to the fullest extent, to find out that it was done in Serbia, so that the Democratic Party of Serbia will not support the vote, or that it will not be declared for the reasons set out, and the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia who are taking part in the debate will present further arguments as to why this cannot be decided and why they would not even vote even if all the conditions laid down by law were met, let alone now that the conditions for decision have been seriously violated, since all the conditions laid down by law have not been met.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32538	I would just like to answer that other candidates are not members of any party, except for MPs, who, of course, must belong to some parties. So, you've given one lie, and now I'm denying you. They are not members of either the Supreme Judge, or prominent legal experts, or vice-presidents of the Republic Public Prosecutor. So, other than MPs, other candidates are not party members I answer to you as a proposal. [[Dejan Mihajlov, from the place: I have the right to reply.]] Did I offend you? Did I misread it? You actually said it was a condition. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic is not a member of the Civil League. I'm telling you, I'm saying, and you're questioning my credibility. I said none of the proposed candidates, except the MPs, are party members, and that's where we're done. As far as the Supreme Court's proposal is concerned, I repeat, members, or the Supreme Court judge, I'd very much like to see who you'd like to address if you were to elect the Supreme Court judges, since there are over 60. Of course, I have addressed the Supreme Court as an institution, and you are also in favour of the development of institutions, and I have received this proposal, that this morning, as I said, at 10:30 p.m. Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero would say she was not in agreement. I'm really sorry, but first of all I have to respect the institution, and they're obliged as judges to obey the law and I think that's where the story is done. You know my party better than I do? You know everything better. The People's MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32539	Ma'am, I'm really asking you, if you're a pronoun, if you have anything to say, come to this pay phone, so say it. This chat doesn't work, and we don't have that authority to punish you, and we have to punish you for throwing you away.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32540	You don't have authority when you don't want to participate. You're not involved in anything, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32541	How much of my rights I'm going to use is up to me, not you. I've come out to warn you of certain injuries that exist, and it concerns, above all, the quorum and that's Article 82. I would ask you to come in accordance with Article 117 of the Service, pick up the extra card, so if you can search some, take out those cards and find the quorum nicely, still bring this down to something that is civilized and according to the Rules of Procedure, and not here to play with 49 MPs the National Assembly that works fully and decides. Please carry this out, so if there's a quorum, we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32542	I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I ask, do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32543	I'm just surprised the promoter didn't make any better suggestions. I watched almost the "Yes and No" show, and I saw a good proposal from the National Assembly, and almost Mira Markovic won. So good a suggestion, it was a little short for us to get back to JUL. Let those who suggest and ask for the most beautiful things to do. What's the problem with this proposal? The main problem is that today we have heard that there is the agreement of the fifteen to be candidates of this commission, which is a little surprising, since it clearly indicates that few of the potential candidates are seriously considering their participation in a commission like this, which would apply the GSS law. We are practically now coming into a situation to discuss the proposal of the one which the commission, which should be elected, should be lustrated. The first task, if this commission is elected, regardless of its composition, will be its proponent to lustrate, by law and by official duty. Now we're getting into trouble, how they're going to lustrate their proposer. Can anyone imagine Sima Radulovic illustrating the president of the National Assembly, MPs from the GSS, the GSS officials who are in some state functions covered by this law. Of course it's just impossible. It is simply impossible, as it is impossible for someone to expect Mrs. Vodnelic to lustrate on the official duty of someone who is now holding a function. Maybe this one from the DOS election list, next to Sima Radulovic, this gentleman, and I think he's the deputy chairman of the Legislative Committee, with Mr Pajtic, with Mrs Vodalić, Hiber and others going to the Constitutional Court and defending the Extraprofit Act. Then tell me what the difference is, where they have conflicted interests and where it is some impartiality. Vodanelic and Hiber represent the National Assembly, with Pajtic and this Sikimic. What objectivity are we talking about? Can they apply this law? Those who have passed the Single Tax Act on extraprofits and about, one seven or eight months simply rejoice when they hear no one mentions that law anymore. It's similar with the other laws that were passed here. It's about inapplicable laws, legally unblessing laws, that mean nothing. As far as this law is concerned, it was adopted one day, and the next day a procedure was initiated at the Republic Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality, and I think it is illusory to do anything at all under that law, until Vucetic decides whether this law is in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or not. He, in addition to 20 major problems, has two obvious ones. There was also the Constitutional Court, and as the Constitutional Court was inserted as an institution applying this law, it also discusses some complaints, it remains unclear. Organic nebulist stands in this law. When amendments were adopted, when something changed here during the debate, it was overlooked and legal nonsense went away which makes this law not applicable. You see, the fifteen in Serbia have found themselves who have given consent and their consent to apply and they want to lustrate. I'm absolutely sure they want the maximum contribution to lustration to give in the following: let's say, the one who was elected Judge of the Supreme Court on 15 August 2002, and the proposer of this decision is absolutely right, he says, he has to be a member, DOS suggested, DOS asks him to do the job he's been proposed to do, to lustrate, eliminate, dedicate this space here. That is, for example, the situation with this candidate Sonja Manojlovic. Then, Jelena Borovec, you see, she was elected Judge of the Supreme Court in 16.4.2003, and she scratched her fingernails with her fingernails, and her hands and legs to get to the Supreme Court and entered some combination, and now she has to pay, she has to do the dirty work. We move on, Vera Pesic, 24.4.2003 became a judge, an expert in lustration. Furthermore, Vladimir Tamash, 1.1.1992, this one somehow strayed here with that career. Miroslav Letic, 5.8.2002, was elected judge of the Supreme Court, so he must repay the debt. As for the people who are proposed from the order of the institution, that is, the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, here is Bogdan Stankovic, since February 2003 as deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. So it must be proved; Maja Stefanovic, since December 2002. Now the pearls are coming. They're from a group of legal, large experts, experts. Vesna Rakic-Vodinlic, she has an established hatred for everything that smells like national. She'll make the most of it. She has to fit in with the Vodnelic family. It's similar with other candidates, so I don't read it to you anymore. You've found people who need to do the dirty work. Why the dirty work? Re-preparation for the election, in prolonged emergency. How long? Let the legislators and motions of one of these choices reflect. In honesty, honesty, real intentions you can't convince anyone. You can swing with the 127 cards, make it so big, and so on. But you're going to the "yes and no" show. You can imitate, do whatever you want. Mira Markovic returns at 46.7%. Who guarantees us that these people, chandeliers are not the first lustration patients. I did not get the impression from the inaugural presentation of the promoter that the promoter was also sure that these did not violate human rights. He says we're getting into it, so here's 15 of them. It took 15 of them to do this job. I'm not sure, no one has convinced me that they are objective, impartial, that they are not politically burdened, because in the course of their actions, they must also take care of the dignity of the person. I do not believe that most of these can meet that condition and that across the way, a representative of the government, a future candidate, would not surprise me if the pots were confused now, so that Mihajlovic and Covic were killed in the process. It wouldn't surprise me, either, because since 1990 Micunovic's party has become so many democratic, as amoebe, it's all from Micunovic's flock. But because of vanity, because of personal interests and some other things, it's been shared, distributed, and it's not ruled out to start mutual lustration and each other's reckoning. And in March this year, I explained why fear and hatred are in politics. I said what would happen to fighting organized crime and assassination. It all happened to you. This will happen to you with the Lustration Commission. She's been working since 9/11. It won't start working. There will be other NGOs, associations, human rights fighters and goats all who will attack the members of this committee, because there are people who know very well who these people are, how they became candidates, who suggested them, why and what is it in the first stage? This is a bad job. With this business, you do not lead to political stability, and believe me, economic problems are quite unsolvable and the hungry stomach is very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32544	Are any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word is from MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group, Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32545	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how important this item of the agenda is, and how important it was to extend the session today, also shows the vote of Mr Shormaz, the MP of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who supported our proposal to work by 20.00 hours. I think it is unusually important that at least those colleagues belonging to the original DOS support this initiative, that we establish this commission and that the commission is working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32546	Any of the other presidents answer for a word? Right to the replica? No, you have no right to a replica. National MP Zoran D. Nikolic, authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32547	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say that I have received the proposal of the National Assembly President on my candidacy for a member of the Commission, and as an expression of some respect, I do not think that there is anything unwitting. The president had an obligation to propose to the National Assembly candidates, but as the president's undisputed right to propose candidates, I think even less should be the disputed right of candidates to plead whether or not they accept this proposal. Since the position of the party I belong to is also the same as my personal position, i.e. We are against the Law of Lustration, then it is quite logical not to accept the law against which we were in parliament. I'd like to state a few reasons why I'm against participating in law enforcement. First, on the formal side, it is fully retroactive and as such and formally opposed to the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Formally, it was always less important here. I actually think it's one failed attempt to correct the so-called. historical injustices. I remind you that this congregation has repeatedly tried to correct historical injustices, and even in 1992 we tried to take the land by confiscation to the heirs; it was a benefactorial act of the Assembly, or state. Instead of good effects, the return of land, we got that it was a parlogous plot, the heirs had a fight and now they're arguing about who's going to pay the tax. When we tried our best to figure out history and correct injustices, we didn't do these generations any good. We will not sooner threaten to punish, by revealing some mysteries from the past, or by sanctions to do any good to these or future generations. Secondly, international experience with lustration is more than clear. All the countries of the eastern block, and I think we're different, the SFRY, the SRJ, whatever you want us to call it, in our genealogy, never by the degree of human rights, or by the stamping of human rights, could be compared to the countries behind the Iron Curtain. And even those countries, where you had one Stasi, where you had 7.8 million people who had files based on surveillance by secret police, where over 200 billion marks were spent to reveal the truth about all these things. In the end, and by the recognition of these people and states themselves, they consider it an unsuccessful attempt to make historical injustice a justice. Why are we against it? Because a good part of the Commission's competence concerns the current workers of security authorities, the MUP and national security, or today's BIE, including the Yugoslav Army. We all agree that the state of security in this country has been out of order for a long time. Even in the future, it cannot be expected that something dramatic will be improved in the coming years. How we will send people now to Presevo or Bujanovac or to other work tasks, if we put a commission behind them to wait for them in Belgrade and ask if 20-30 years ago, listening to a Peru Peric, under official duty, acting under the regulations of that time, eventually violated someone's right. I think that this is exactly how we expect these services to defend the integrity and sovereignty of this country, in some ways, to be thrown into these organs and panics, and fear and uncertainty. I think from that point of view, this law is more harmful than useful. How will this law be implemented? Well, apparently, i.e. like everyone who was pompously announced, we had a chance yesterday to hear the statement of Justice Minister Mr. Batic, who says no one will be spared the lustration. Anyone who has read this law has seen that the Ministry of Justice with the enforcement of this law has absolutely nothing to do with it and this is another proof that the executive authority in this sphere, unfortunately as in some others, will try to impose its will, interpret the law in a way that it thinks is most comprehensive. That's why, as a parliamentary group, we've submitted a bill to put this lustration law out of effect, and we'll see if he sees the light of day. Since I cannot implement the law against whom I am and I deeply believe that it is neither just nor just, if there is some dilemma whether we should be remembered as part of Serbian parliamentaryism that will lute others or who will be lustrated, I choose this other solution peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32548	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to a debate in order of Members of the People's Parliaments, and according to reports, in a single search of the selection of members of the Commission for the examination of responsibilities for human rights violations. The first registered speaker, MP Velimir Simonovic, followed by MP Vladimir Garcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32549	Ladies and gentlemen, when it came to the Lustration Act, to call it so briefly, then the MPs of some parliamentary groups left the hall and that was proof that they were against the law. I didn't want to, I stayed in the O.R., and I was the only one who voted against that law. It's recorded in the press, and it's the only thing that's not mentioned is who voted against, which isn't so important anyway. So, since I was against the law, of course, I can't even be on this committee, but I don't see why we're even discussing this when the commission's gone. We don't have enough proposed members to join the vote, because three members have cancelled their participation in such a commission, they don't want to be candidates. I was told on television last night that Mrs. Shkero didn't want to be on this committee, she was very happy. This gave me back hope that even if there are people in the Supreme Court of Serbia who do not want to be members of an ideological committee to question the moral-political resemblance of Serbian citizens. However, these others may agree, but how can the Supreme Court judge agree to be a member of such a committee? It's just amazing. If we get to the third part of the members, the third group, the prominent lawyers, so is there really no more lawyers in this country than the married couple - Vodnelic, wherever you turn, is a candidate, either Mr Vodnelic or Mrs Vodnelic, and that is really amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32550	The word comes from MP Vladimir Garčević, then MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32551	Dearly respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, instead of arguing that Serbian citizens should not commit suicide because of hunger, inability to support their family, we want to go back, prove what we cannot prove, call out, and remove political opponents. Political opponents, the only way we can get them out of the scene is in the election, which means if we're not satisfied with them, then we'll organise elections, so the political opponents will have their price in the electoral body. It's the only criterion you can look forward to. This criterion, which is in power to persecute the other, is politically not good and will not bring good, nor those who will be persecuted, nor those who will do it, and I am deeply convinced, will neither benefit those who are the beginners of this. What does that mean? When we come to power, to tell you the truth, then I'll see what he's been doing here with Gash and the Civil League, the gentleman, the Hungarian origin, the magnificent rich man, the heir son, to see where he is, so let's see what's going on with everyone else. Shall we call all these in this lustration that have received money from abroad and betrayed the national interest, shall we also call them, if it is known that there is a Serb people guarding their people. So we won't, because they're in charge of those who don't want to. How do you do that? I don't think it can be done at all, and I think it was meant to create trust in this congregation, overcoming all the events, creating each other what was in some part of it. Let me tell you, the moment I came to the congregation, there were calls from certain colleagues, a seminar, and work on the board, he created me to meet these people, to get close, no matter what different attitudes. It was necessary to work on the creation of a minimum community in the work of the Assembly, regardless of the different software content and the different programming orientation. With what we're doing now, we want to fire, you've seen, dear comrades, that the Serbian people won't do it. In addition to reading on TV Belgrade - 1, you are told, the message is clear, the Serbian people will not, the Serbian people want peace, they want to work, they want to create conditions, they want to have bread, not to deal with it. Nothing to the citizens of Sremska Mitrovica means one man to be lustrated, what does that mean? Nothing, but does it mean that his kids have bread, is there anything to do, and what do we do? We're dealing with something that's going to suggest a party that, to tell you the truth, let it add up how many members there are, let it add up, I'm sorry these parties supported the rest of that law. I think a little tolerance, a little understanding, is the situation changing one way or another, that we have to build some other relationships, and I think this should be withdrawn, that these commissions should be eliminated, and hearing about someone out there being everywhere, to shoot down the Serbian people, so please excuse me, what are these monsters that suggest they be on this committee too, what are they? It's not normal people, because they wouldn't suggest a sister, a husband, a woman, this one, and what it means is we choose those who can commit crimes, so they should have done that Biserko, so Kandic, so put it all down, they can do it. A normal man can't do that. In his work, a man can make a mistake. The Serbian people must rise up, some things and forgive and thus create a well-being for the citizens of Serbia. This way you won't get out on the right track. (President: I express my warning to the MPs Zoran Micovic and Aleksandr Radosavljevic, and I ask you not to throw it out of the bench. ) So, the future and this assembly, the future of the country of Serbia, is in the burial of war axes, not the opening of new ones. Those who open may wonder where they're going. I don't think they're going through Serbia's progress. It's against this kind of composition that our party is, and we will remain consistent with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32552	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, then by MP Milan Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the MPs gathered in the DOS parliamentary group will elect members of a paradoural body, I would say through the court, the modern inquisitors, who will judge Serbian citizens for allegedly violating human rights, for acts that cannot be tried before regular courts and cannot be punished. Today you will choose the members of the commission who will have the basic task of removing unfavourable political opponents from the political game, to go to the elections themselves, to win the elections themselves, to lose the elections themselves, to be the authority and to be the opposition themselves. Then someone else will probably win the voter's trust very soon, some others will become power, some other people will propose members of the commission, and you who choose members of this committee today will be the subject of the commission's work, and so on and so on. When power is changed, members of the commission will change, other European peoples will move forward, and we will lustrate each other to the last. It'll all take a while until it's smart in Serbia and until it's said -- that's enough, let's work for Serbia now. Because, gentlemen, in Europe, political opponents will be unthinkers in the same idea that nations live better, and with us political opponents, if you continue like this, there will be blood enemies. The MPs of the SRS, while still searching the Law on Human Rights, held responsibility for those who violated human rights allegedly, argued that people could not be tried by reading police reports, reading what municipal civilians or regional civilians were reading, and were also delivering them to the authorities of national security, they were scrutinising and thus creating the characteristics and moral-political resemblance of many people. I know that many people because of such stories, even though they worked hard on their jobs, although they did their job fairly, couldn't achieve proper professional results or advances, because someone knew to go to the National Security Service, to the SUP, to tell his neighbor a cop - this one spoke against Tito, this one against the party, and such people were seduced into police files. You've proposed 18 candidates. Some of them you'll choose. What's the resemblance between them? Everyone in the line will be DOS. From the point of view of the SRS, we do not care whether Srdjan is elected instead of Srdjan, instead of Dragan Marko or someone else, mostly, they will all be ideological members of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia and each of them will intend to allow the ruling structure to remain in power for as long as possible, and this will only be possible by those political opponents, whom they consider to be a danger to their regime and that elections will be able to gain citizens' trust, out of participation in public and political life. Serbian radicals have nothing to be ashamed of in their political action, without being afraid and unable to scare us, I hope that in 12 years of parliamentary life in Serbia you have already understood that. We can take revenge. We can suffer injustices, but the idea of Serbian radicalism cannot be destroyed by this law either. What kind of jobs do these people expect? I'm very sorry about these people because they'll probably, when someone else wins power and if this law remains, they'll be lustrated themselves, and only yesterday they'll be judges of the Supreme Court, only yesterday they're elected judges of the county courts, and they'll have to pay a heavy tribute, to repay their debt by having to do something that they're probably not convinced of themselves. Now the bearers of Titus's staff, those who went on foot to the grave of Comrade Titus, will be in the role of those who lastrate those who fought against those same years. I hope you've made the right choice. I personally know that among the proposed candidates there are those who will eat an act for a decent reward or make a new act to accuse someone. As far as these proposals are concerned, I have one more thing to say, maybe we would have believed that it was honest and honest people, who could be responsible for this ungrateful job, but look, five, six, seven months ago you proposed public prosecutors, you proposed judges, and now among these same newly elected public prosecutors and judges are some already arrested for crime. That's when you said it was a rare honest and rarely honorable people, who are precisely because of such characteristics and choose responsible functions. Besides, it's in the previous agenda, when we discussed members of the Broadcasting Council. So, the SRS won't vote on a proposal for a commission candidate. In the end, just let me express my admiration for some of the ladies who ran a little bit in the air to give a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, although they are not the owners of some television, although they do not have to wait for the consent and permission to work on that television. Of course, it is the opposition Party of Serbian Unity, which has shown its opposition action at this time, allowing such a law to be passed, i.e. to elect members of the commission, primarily thanks to its quick legs and determination to protect its head of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32554	The word has been made by MP Milan Radulovic, the next person registered for the word is MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32555	Dear People's MPs, it would be good, indeed, to discuss this subject on the agenda a little more seriously. The President of the National Assembly shall be on the basis of Article 23(2). The law on liability for human rights violations proposes candidates for the Commission to implement the law. In doing so, I remind you of the previous item of the agenda, when it comes to the Law on Broadcasting -- here is a respected deadline provided for in the final provisions. The final provisions of Article 34(2) provide that the law enforcement bodies will be educated within 60 days of the date of entry into force of the law. The only authority that needs to implement this law, which is authorized and designed to implement this law, is the Commission we are talking about today. I will remind, by the way, that there is still a basis for the objections made by some MPs, including Dejan Mihajlov, that the procedure itself, since some candidates have given up, is in some sense missing or may be controversial. Even if the procedure is not disputed, the Commission that is to implement this law will find itself in a very awkward situation. Namely, this commission, if it implements this law consistently, will represent a kind of moral sword or, more specifically, a moral-political inquisition in Serbia. But there will be no Inquisition here. I think MPs who point out that the law is directed against some political groups, unfounded colors. This law is simply inconclusive. He can't be applied. The Commission, which is chosen to apply it - and all of these are candidates for which the President of the Assembly guarantees to possess both moral and professional integrity, which could also be concluded from biography - will very quickly face the fact that they need to implement something that is not possible in our conditions to implement. The Law on Liability for Human Rights Infringements is based on the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. The international pact on civil and political rights is now being implemented backwards, but what is very good is also being applied in advance. These laws are an ideal way of defining human rights, and in a completely idealistic way it is prescribed what constitutes a violation of human rights. In that sense, I would be willing to welcome this law if it determines political oligarchy and any other kind of state officials that cannot be done. It's high time that in this country, politicians were told by law what they couldn't possibly do. However, trouble is when what must not be done, which is really not human to seem, which is not civilized, and not only is it not democratic to seem, trouble is when applied to a time when human rights violations were meant. How will the commission implement the views of Article 5, let's say, that it should lustrate a person who is in the exercise of his duties, namely the task "although the aim is to deprive a person of the right that belongs to him or to make it difficult for him to exercise such right"? We know we lived in a country where the institute so-called. moral-political similarities. The Institute of Moral-political Similarity has itself made it difficult to achieve equal rights. It will also be very difficult to implement the position set out in Article 7 to lustrate a person who "in an unequal position brings one person to the other or the other, contrary to the principle of legal equality, regardless of gender, age, race, color of the skin, nationality, political attitude and other qualities". Based on political views from 1945 to today, including today's day, citizens were discriminated against, not all had equal rights. However, to return to the proposal of the candidates themselves. Madam President guarantees or assumes - he may not be able to guarantee it, because the law stipulates that a person who subjects himself to lustration may also enter the Commission - so he very well assumes that none of the proposed candidates for the Commission has ever violated any human rights, that none of these judges have ever asked one of their colleagues to take over the order the subject of his friend, and that he skips the one whose case is in order, if someone, say, "there is no one in court". I would like the President to give us another piece of information in the final word, when she explains and gives her final view on the composition of this Commission: were these people once members of a political organisation? I believe that apart from two, three or four MPs, as proposed -- and some have already given up -- none of the candidates are now a member of any party in Serbia. There's no reason not to believe it. But we have the view in Article 12 that "belonging to a particular political party, organisation or group, apart from belonging to a criminal association" etc... In itself, it is not the basis for a lustration procedure. I have to apologize to a lot of people here, I really do have to apologize, but I think that in organizations that belong to it without the lustration itself, I can't get into the KPJ, the Union of Communists of Serbia and other communist organizations. Here's why he can't. The Communist alliance banned, through its organs, a multi-party system. If you forbid people to organize themselves into a political organization, you have insulted their human rights. It went into effect during the regime, under which three people, if found and discussed critically about the regime, could be declared an organisation that destroys the constitutional order. There was in that time in Criminal Law a famous member133. The Society of Librarians and Free Intelligence gathered around the institution to fight hard. What is the second sanctioning of verbal delicacy rather than limiting freedom of opinion and expression, and freedom of opinion and expression is part of human rights. All these insubordinations, I have to call them that, they were legitimate. They were installed in the Constitution, in laws and in the social system; they were the foundation of the ideology of communist organisations. Therefore, if someone belonged to a communist organisation, he did not have to carry out such a violation of human rights, but he supported an organisation that, in an apparent way, discriminated politically against the citizens of a country. So will the members of this committee face this problem? Whether or not they themselves are subject to this widely understood interpretation that under the membership of organisations that release from lustration, they cannot enter the Communist party and its factions, because it, by its own nature, is aimed at discriminating citizens and politically dividing them into "moral-politicalally similar" and those who are not alike. This idealistic law will hardly be implemented. Indeed, human rights are here, I repeat, defined in an ideal way. Where they're lucky we can apply this law. But we can't apply it because -- there's a valid sun in that -- and in the Commission proposed by Mrs. President any members of the Union of Communists; because when you look at their biographies and career advancements, it still seems that they had the support of the ruling party. I have no intention of insinuating and asking if there were any members of that organisation among the lawmakers who had violated human rights for 50 years. This commission can therefore be elected, but cannot implement this law. This is one of those idealist laws, the wonderful laws that the government is proposing, that cannot be applied. I have the impression that the government is proposing two types of laws: one that can be applied, and the purpose is to keep the status quo, and others that are in line with the highest European standards, which cannot be applied. This law is cake cream; but, gentlemen, we don't have cake. We can't put cake cream on our peasant pass. Our human rights are 50 years at the level of the poorest, the most crude millet. There will be no dangers, no one will be able to be lustrated under this law except where there are drastic violations of human rights. If only part of the members of one law are applied, and not the law in general, then the law is lacking; and all the members of this Law were alive and seen, they cannot be applied, even though this Commission was proposed by Archangel Michael himself and even if the angels themselves sat in it. They will show mercy and understanding for the situation in which people have acted and in which they belonged to one organization that was the only one, which in its being was directed to divide citizens into advanced, moral-political alike, those who love another Tito, self-government, non-classification, and those who have some small reserves according to it, or are open opponents of that system. I have the right to speak of this a little more temperamentally, because in 1977, I was among the few people who signed Charter 77. The 77 charter is Havel's charter, which came from the Czech Republic to Serbia, that is, to Yugoslavia, and then very few people signed this Charter of Human Rights. At that moment, it was difficult for all those who did so afterwards to exercise some rights, whether professional, political, or material. I'm not talking about it because I'm looking for some satisfaction, God forbid, but I'm telling you that back in 1977, and that was a year or two after the International Pact was adopted, in this country heresy was mentioned human rights. And that's how it lived until 1990. Then, in 1990, the regime abolished at least one apparent violation of human rights: it allowed people to be organised politically. The favouring of people based on political belongings we still have today embedded in our laws. We have a system, such a system we inherited, in which ruling parties must run their people into boards. Whether we appoint someone who is a member of my party to the board of directors, who is less capable than someone who is not a member of any party or is a member of the opposition party and is much more competent to understand a particular system and manage it, we thus restrict one's rights. Yes, we are! But we haven't changed those laws yet, and we've brought new ones, according to which systems will be left to the people who wear them; let them sort out and create a technocrat and control structure that will manage these systems themselves. In short, a very contradictory law, inapplicable. I am sorry for the members of the Commission who will be in a position to partially implement the law, to abuse it for political purposes (and that is also theoretically possible) or be in a position to say - people, the law is ideal, but cannot be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32556	The People's MP Goran Cvetanovic has the word, and the next one declared for the word is MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that the head of the DOS parliamentary group is present, who suggested that we work by 20.00 hours. Apparently, he was the first to respect what he suggested, as usual of DOS. The law on liability for human rights violations is primarily political law. It was exclusively made for political purposes, with purely political motives. The law is unconstitutional and undemocratic. No law can prescribe that there is a right if that right is not regulated by the Constitution itself. Article 9 of the Constitution states: "The judicial authority is independent, belongs to the courts themselves". If there are no constitutional powers to form a commission, where do you have the right to set up a Commission for Pre-Courts, when that court does not have a legal fact. Whether the proposed commission provides judicial protection, freedoms and rights guaranteed by the Constitution. In Article 45. The constitution guarantees freedom of conscience, thought and public opinion. Will the members of the Commission, by examining who is doing some of the actions, have wronged human rights, and this Article 45. The Constitution ignores. How can Serbian citizens trust the judiciary if it is not depolitised, if we know that Justice Minister Mr Batic, who participated in the DOS elections and received a number of MPs, six or seven and publicly boasts that he now has two more MPs, and then probably no Serbian citizen can trust the judiciary. If members of the Constitutional Court violate constitutional law many times, only the Serbian Radical Party had an initiative 18 times to examine the constitutionality of certain acts and never received a positive or negative opinion, apparently the commission should exercise a lustration of members of the Constitutional Court, including the President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Vucic, who is a member of the political party. The Commission is proposed by the President of the Republic, who we do not have. Mrs Natasa Micic is referring to the adopted draft laws to declare the President of the Republic. I told you about the laws, and you listen, sir. You usually sleep, and today you're a little more up-to-date.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32558	Then please speak about the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32559	Ma'am, I'm about to link your work to the commission's work, because besides having energy, I'm not going into whether it's positive or negative energy, and even though you have long legs, you're only chosen to act as president of Serbia for the simple reason that you can move from this parliament to another building as soon as possible and sign the acts brought by this assembly. That's exactly what members of the committee do, and that's why I had to mention you, because the same members are illustrating you, and later they solve your complaints as a second-degree body. Do the members of the commission possess moral standards if they accept to be members of a court who will lustrate individual politicians from political life, in order to put aside political competition for those who have proposed those members of the commission. Who's going to be a member of the committee, it's obviously a matter of political settlement here. Many executives have tried to reduce their behavior, actions, and responsibilities by hiding behind a decision by the board of directors or congregation committees. They were violating human rights, and who's going to answer? Will all members of the board of directors or will it be just collective responsibility? Have some violated human rights because of their inactivity or passivity? You have Mr. Dinkic, governor of the National Bank, who, in his time with long pipes, broke into the National Bank. In all the media, you can read how government representatives are corrupt and there is material evidence and arguments that this is true, unlike the Democratic Party of Serbia. Now, I'm asking you, if that's true, it means that you have to make arguments and that the Attorney General, by official duty, responds to all the charges that have been made. If not, then he must answer for everything he has done or exerts political influence on the National Assembly and the Government to choose him. If he is not elected, Serbian citizens will know that it is something else, that he has great arguments and that the government must put pressure on him and do what he wants. It's obvious that she used to be OZNA, who they say she finds out everything, and then the national security that proved to be, what she's doing and all the activities she's had, especially in her last period of time. I don't see the reason why we would trust killer now, but probably because of thinkers, because of Mr. Socrates' smart man, who gave the right information and who would suggest who should succumb to this law and who didn't. In the end, just a few staff questions. Serbia's Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Skero, and you know it was removed from the Constitutional Court and transferred to the Supreme Court, and now the woman does not agree to be in this body, and you propose it. Is that some compensation for what you've done. Other candidates are members of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. In Article 103. The constitution has been defined by the public prosecutor's office as an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators and invests legal means to protect constitutionality and legality. Article 105 defines that a public prosecutor cannot carry out a job incompatible with his office. You obviously didn't take care of that. These legal experts you have, I will only ultimately read something about Mr. Vlasimir Jankovic, and where it is defined, says, in addition to the benefits he had as a prominent legal expert, he has collaborated with many NGOs and especially with the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. I guess that's the most important item in his biography and life experience. Finally, since there are V candidates for members of the committee from the ranks of MPs, I am really asking of these four candidates how many of them were not members of the Union of Communists and whether we should discuss them first or some other persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32560	The People's Messenger Pal Shandor has the word, and the next one declared for the word is the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32561	Dear colleagues, esteemed presidents, I regret, indeed, that you have been brought by some candidates astray, by proposing them, and they have withdrawn their candidacy. I really think that's incorrect on their part, because we're here in a situation to consider a list of candidates that isn't complete. It is not complete in the sense that there is not enough number of MPs from different lists and is not complete because of Mrs. Shkero, who has still retired, if I know correctly, with a telegram. So we can't force her to be a member of this lustration committee, but she doesn't have to be if she won't accept it, even though she's a Supreme Court judge, and that comes from one another. It's just, I don't think it's right on their side, and if I were you, I'd pull this list until there's enough candidates who accept to be candidates, so let's see who we choose. Anyway, that's the first thing I wanted to notice. The second, very principled one, I wanted to say about Mr. Korhec, or more to ask, you remember, this is Mr. Tamash Korhec, the older one, who was eventually proposed to the District Court judge in Subotica, and I, of course, said that I was completely illogical and that it was unremembered in the practice of courts to be foreign citizens as judges. Now I find it totally unacceptable and unreasonable for foreign citizens to be members of the lustration commission. Please, what's it gonna look like? Mr. Korhec, I think he's a foreign citizen. If not, I'd like him to say it under moral, material and criminal responsibility and not turn out to be an unfounded attack; to say, I'm not a foreign citizen, and then it's something that's acceptable to me. That those who are strangers are illustrating us, I think it's morally unacceptable. There are few of us left, but I hope you won't vote for him for the same reasons you didn't vote for in time when he was offered as judge in court. It's simply incorrect. Tell me another country where a foreign citizen is a member of this lustration committee. It really isn't there. I mean, of course, among the Hungarians there are very good candidates, there are very prominent professors at the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, and that could have been, say, Mr. Salma Jozef, here's my first memory, the best expert, probably with us for bond law. We could have suggested him or someone else. Of course, he's not my favorite and he's not my party buddy, but he doesn't belong to respected judges and respected lawyers, you really can't say that. Besides, Mr. Korhec is a man of age, 66 years old, and if the judge were somewhere in court, he wouldn't be able to perform that duty, and he probably has someone younger and better. I think it's simply, as a suggestion, no matter who suggested it, I'm not getting into it, it's not correct, and it's in line with my security to draw attention to those mistakes and those suggestions that I don't think are properly proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32562	Before I give my word to the next candidate, Mr. Shandor, you'll allow me to answer, very briefly in two sentences, and I don't have to go out for a pay phone. In fact, Mr. Tamash Korhec has dual citizenship, which means he has both ours and Hungarian. I don't see why they'd disqualify him if he had one more citizenship. On the other hand, Mr. Shandor, it's really incomprehensible to me, you who advocate to be as many Hungarians as possible, and I've listened to you now, the other day, here at the pay phone, and now you have completely different arguments, even though I respected in my proposal, there's a candidate who's Russian, one is Hungarian, then there's a lot of women in the motion to elect members, and I think I've respected, therefore, the right to replication. I don't see anyone being disqualified because they have another's citizenship, and of course they have our country's citizenship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32563	Of course, I don't mind, but tell me another country where a citizen who has another citizenship can sit on that lustration committee. It's nowhere to be found. Is there anyone in the Hungarian Lustration Commission who has Ukrainian citizenship or Czech? We can play deaf phones, but it's just not right. I was not in favour of the Hungarians being sufficiently represented, I said there were others who had only one citizenship, who had not determined that they could have another resignation. I even said one name, surely the most respected law professor among the Hungarians. You can find some other people. Just because I'm against Mr. Korhec, of course, doesn't mean that I'm against Hungarians being on those lists. Simply, I don't think it's correct that a man who has dual citizenship and apparently has other moods says here whether, God forbid, with the position of Serbian nationalism or not, I don't know what, against the organization, he was involved in something and he should be convicted. That's not gonna be good for the lustration committee. It will have no credibility among those who need to take care of it. A double citizen can be, I don't know, at the post office, at the cashier's office, he can be in some company, but in the justice system, I've looked at websites, various websites, on the Internet, there's just nothing like that. So I'm not against Mr. Korhec specifically, to be clear, I really have nothing against him, but I'm against principle. I think there's one among those Hungarians who don't have double citizenship enough good people to be there. Otherwise, I might be able to set it up, if I knew eventually, if there were someone who had both Bosnian and Serbian citizenship, and I couldn't accept it the same way, and in our courts in Vojvodina there are those who have dual citizenship and who are refugees from Bosnia, and they judge, Hungarians. It also seems to me that it's not correct. So there's just some things where there's a limit and there's something you can't do. That's what I wanted to draw attention to, and what's proposed, it's nowhere in the world. I'm not against Mr. Korhec, namely, here he is, and I'm not against being Hungarian candidates. I did, and I think there might be two of them, and three and five of them, but this case is like I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32564	The People's Messenger Hranislav Peric has the word, and the following is the People's Messenger Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32565	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today on the agenda of Parliament is the election of members of the Commission to investigate the responsibility for human rights violations. When my colleagues passed this law, they talked about it and proved that this law was unconstitutional. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 73(1), point 2, but this cannot be the basis for the adoption of laws whose content does not comply with the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. Even though it is pointed to everything that is not good in this law, it is still adopted. Today we have to choose the Lustration Commission. When a little closer look at the composition of the Commission, it can be said that we are introducing another court in practice, and it is a political court. The commission's or political court's task will be for all candidates in the election, who are not in power, to lustrate. The first reason why we will not be for the proposed members of the Commission is as follows: Article 126. Serbia's 4th constitution has defined that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform other functions or professional activity, and neither can judges do other paid jobs. Secondly, it is an observation that the members of the Commission of Members of Parliament can only be lawyers, which is not the right of other MPs and what if there are no lawyers in the Assembly. The Commission will also judge in the proposed composition who does not have the right to run for certain functions. These judgments will be published in means of public information. The one to whom the lustration is concerned will only be able to withdraw the candidacy and is not given the right to appeal, i.e. Defense. The Serbian government's regulation on putting into account certain files conducted on Serbian citizens in the Service of State Security has been seen as a fear of some members of the government because they fear their own past. Therefore, the Law on lustration is only a farce, because it will not apply to members of the government and people of power. But you are the majority in this House and you can vote whatever you want. You can apply lustration to all parties who are in opposition and you will be able to do so as long as you are in power. The next person who has a majority in this House will only apply your law to you. It's important for us that the law applies equally to everyone. Probably this commission will lute those who worked with the mob, the clans, those involved in tobacco smuggling, those who worked with sugar and all other malfeasances. As you can see, we will choose the Commission and select the members, and then we will see which of them will accept to work in the Commission. If he won't, then we'll go back to the previous law. I hope that this commission will also be half-way, so that we will recomply as with the previous law, because it is seen from the previous that this is not a harmonised proposal and that people did not agree to work on these functions. And in the end, this is more and more like a local community. It's unserious. There are also weights that the President of the Assembly also v.d. The head of state is proposing candidates, and they're starting to drop out. Where is the authority of function and responsibility?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32566	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in ancient Athens, the wise Athenians who were simply far smarter than we are today, who run this country, had an institute called ostracism. Honorable persecution meant that a citizen who was found to be dangerous by state did not lose property, but for 10 years he was exiled from Athens, and his family lost the right to political engagement. In Athens, among the wise Athenians, this was considered the most terrible punishment a free man could receive. It was a terrible punishment that the Athenians simply never chose people who would decide who would be exiled. It was done in secret, drawing the name of a man on a clay plate. So none of the Athenians ever wanted to accept on themselves such a great responsibility, a terrible responsibility to condemn another man to persecution from political activity. To forbid him from political engagement. Unfortunately, in Serbia at the end of JJ and in the beginning of the JJ century there are people who are not so terrible, they have enough courage, I really think these people who are offered are extremely brave, to take on such a responsibility. I would never dare do such a thing myself. It takes courage, forbidding a man to be involved in youth or in political or public engagement. It is clear that there is a criminal responsibility for the guilt, for the violation of human rights, for the violation of human rights, and that is what we should have applied. No lustration. Especially not in Serbia, especially in Serbia, which is the last two centuries of a country of enormous discontinuity. A country where we do not have continuous development, which has not yet set priorities, nor its strategic developments, a country where every generation of sons is reckoned with a generation of their fathers. This is a terrible moral responsibility for these people to take on something like this. Serbs and Serbian society were divided along the monarchy line, into people who were for Yugoslavia and Serbia, for partisans and for Chetniks. Serbian society was mostly divided between polarised political extremes. It never took the strength to, as a normal developed Western society, find the strength to continue on one line, to continue on one point of development, no matter what someone was in youth after political definition. If we were to carry out a logical absurd, every member of the Communist Union would have to be convicted. He'd be banned from public engagement. They agreed, those millions and 200,000 people in this country, to be members of a political organisation that defines in its programme to fight for the creation of conditions in which the proletariat dictatorship will rule. Such people have been, and they have been involved in Serbia's political scene day and day. You don't have to tell me what a dictatorship is. The dictatorship is holding power by violent means. Whoever accepted it, by reason of their common sense, unforced, cannot by this logic that is imposed by this law, even these people who should be elected to the lustration commission, to engage in no public engagement. Serbia is unfortunately too divided a country. Serbia doesn't need any more deobs. I sincerely hope that these people you choose will keep in mind what is the leading dissident of Eastern Europe, Vaclav Havel, said in 1998: "If I had known what an accident the Law on lustration would bring to the Czech society, I would never have allowed it to be brought. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-14-0.u32568	This is what we've done today's work and we'll continue tomorrow. Thank you. I'm setting tomorrow as voting day. When the debate is over, we'll approach the vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official records, 118 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Juhas Atila, Milutin Svetović, Aleksandar Stefanović and Kermeci Karolj, and in the morning Bojana Alexic, Dragan Rafaelovic and Predrag Stojanovic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for the selection of members of the Committee for the Testing of Responsibility for the Infringements of Human Rights (Resume) We continue according to applications for the word of the Members of the People's Parliaments. The word has the People's MP Branislav Blazic, and the next one registered for the word is Slobodan Janjic.
