ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thanks to the proposal of one MP who has never come out for this pay phone to defend any proposal from the Government or to submit and explain any amendment, we are in a position to explain in a single debate the proposals of six laws. By the way, I won't be able to look back at all the bill's proposals. I'm just going to have to run over some of them, because for a serious debate, it would take us at least two hours. But there's obviously no one here who's interested in the debate. We showed that at yesterday's session. The means of information, of course, do not report the views of individual MPs and parliamentary groups, there is no objective journalism. All reports from the Serbian Parliament are clearly written by Beba Popovic and Goran Vesic. Let's get straight to the law, 'cause we're in tea. I'm not going to take a special look at the Arms and Ammunition Act. The Serbian Radical Party has no objection to tightening the fines for the illegal holding of weapons. On the contrary, we believe that that's the way it should be, since all the weapons that are now being returned are weapons that you gave to the citizens on October 5th, kidnapping him from police stations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27984	On the basis of article 101, I give you a warning because of the insult you have made to the MPs of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27985	Isn't that true? Well, that was in the press, please. I didn't say anything that wasn't true. We have only one proposal to submit annual reports on the number of weapons returned and to have the status available and the situation in the warehouses, so that at one point we are clear that all these are returned. It makes sense to conduct a joint investigation and a joint debate on the Law on the High Council of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Law. Under these two laws, which are related, the High Council of Justice no longer has jurisdiction in the process of electing public prosecutors and their deputies, which we told you should not be even when we passed a package of judicial laws. In the meantime, you saw it didn't work out well. And then you were aware that it wasn't good, but it was a mutual agreement between the DSS and the rest of the DOS, that you would vote on these laws concerning the judiciary, and they were the laws on your work. According to us, the Assembly should retain jurisdiction in the election of a public prosecutor, by not seeing the difference between public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, especially when it comes to the fact that the deputy public prosecutors are the ones who are operationally doing the job and whose treatment should be the same, as far as the election is concerned. It means that again, the Assembly will be the one who chooses them, and whose proposal -- certainly not on the government's proposal, I assume the public prosecutor, that the Justice and General Administration Committee will pass through and come back here to the Serbian Parliament, that the Assembly will decide on that. The truth is that the Public Prosecutor's Office is neither a clean administrative authority, nor a judicial authority. It differs from the judiciary and judicial functions in that they are not completely independent. To give the government the authority to appoint deputy public prosecutors is absolutely unacceptable to us and in this sense we have submitted amendments to this law. The most important law in this package is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, which defines the concept of organised crime in a completely different way, the term organised criminal group, which is now defined here and so on. Another organized group, a completely vague notion; but we can assume what is behind it -- it hides a lot of things and leaves the possibility of collecting responsibility, although in a criminal and legal sense there is only individual responsibility. I'm going to give an example, the way we figured it out, what could be another organized group. It could be any association of citizens, it could be, say, the Society of Judges, so two or three judges commit some crime, it already has some features of organized crime, or it can. What is the consequence of this organization, or the Society of Judges? It can also be a union organization, and a political organisation. In Article 3. The proposal for this law of the criminal proceedings provision cannot be materially contained in this law. The minister told us yesterday, unfortunately, he's not here, that these provisions are a lex specialis compared to the Code of Criminal Procedure. So we have a 30-day detention, thanks to the state of emergency and regulation v.d. The president of the state, and on a regular basis after the state of emergency, which he once has to stop, will be held for 270 days. From the provisions of these articles from 15a to 15l, we see that detention can last 24 hours, and it can be extremely extended for 30 days, 30 days, and 30 more if there are grounds for suspicion that the person has committed an organized crime, then three months in a detention unit (that reminds me a lot of me of The Hague tribunal's detention unit), and another three months, means 270 days in total. The question arises which international convention allows, given that we must respect international conventions. I will read to you only one document from the second meeting of the Conference on the Human Dimension of the KEPS, Copenhagen in 1990, paragraph 1, Articles 5.15 and 51.6. Point 5.15: "Any person arrested or detained on charges of committing a crime shall be entitled immediately to be brought before a judge or another person authorised by law to perform that function in order to decide on the legality of his arrest or detention". Point 5.16: "In order to rule on criminal charges against such persons or their rights and obligations in court proceedings, everyone has the right to be heard fairly and publicly by a competent, independent and impartial court established by law." Since the state union of Serbia-Montenegro has accepted the Statute of the Council of Europe, it is required to apply the generally accepted principles on human rights. The Council of Europe requests that the arrested and detained person be brought to justice immediately and the right to be heard fairly and publicly by a competent, independent and impartial court. So, not the police, the prosecutor, and especially the minister can't decide on the detention, but only the judge, so we wonder what the consequences are of not respecting these international conventions that we are obliged to respect. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Of course. As far as the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is concerned, this was, in our opinion, looking at the material that you delivered to us and concerning the amendment of the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, a moment to codify criminal-legal matter. After the adoption of the Charter of State Community, Serbia-Montenegro missed the moment, so we have these changes per piece. Through the amendments and through the discussion in detail, you will see how unconsistent the promoter was and how he had no patience for everything that needs to be changed, just because this can now become only a basic law. The basic criminal law of the Republic of Serbia will be further explained through the amendments. So first, the problem is Article 1 and the change of the name of this law to the basic criminal law. If so, then it must be called the basic criminal law of the Republic of Serbia and that all those provisions mentioning the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are changed throughout the text of the law. The papers are provided for in Article 3 of this proposal, where a confiscation of property is introduced as a secondary penalty. Under the existing law, the law that applies has already regulated the possibility of confiscation of anything that has been illegally acquired, and even of what the convicted person has passed on to someone else, a spouse, a relative, or a gift to any person. So there was a possibility that this property could be taken away. Here, of course, it is wanted to be organised crime, and this is the condition of this member, and how it can be a violent collapse of constitutional order, then Minister Batic (here it comes) and his action to collect signatures for independent Serbia, because it has all the features of organised crime, because it attacks the country's constitutional order directly and strives to change the country's constitutional order. I will remind you of the Convention on Money Laundering, Search, confiscation and confiscation of property (from Strasbourg, 8 November 1990) adopted by the countries of the Council of Europe, which, under confiscation, implies the confiscation of property benefit obtained by criminal acts. "Every party will adopt such laws and other measures, which may be necessary to enable the confiscation of funds and property benefits obtained by criminal acts or assets whose value corresponds to the benefits obtained." Therefore, there is no complete confiscation and cannot be subject to confiscation to obtain property legally, gift, inheritance, joint property acquired in marriage and so on. The second paper, the law knows only the return, not the multiple return. What's the consequence? The possibility is that, say, one person sentenced to prison for a year because of a bar fight, in a certain period of time, will be sentenced to 12 years, which can be doubled immediately, and then 24 years, and this is the return of two crimes in five years, because after five years, it can't, and after that it's out of date, is deleted from the record and immediately applied to this measure. Multiple returns would have to remain as an institute and in this law. The return has already been regulated by this same law in Article 41(2) in which it has not intervened, so these two norms are in collegiate and I think it will be a confusion and a possibility for courts to judge differently and to interpret these two legal norms differently. All this shows is that you did not seriously deal with criminal law, but rather solve some acute problems in criminal policy. The third newspaper is a criminal offense, Article 48, which has already been changed ten times: "If a prison sentence has been found for crimes in prison, the single sentence must be greater than each individual imposed punishment, but must not reach the set of established sentences, nor cross 15 years in prison." In our view, there should be 40-year prison sentences, so it can't go beyond that; 40 years is something we could call a life sentence, and we think that's enough. Otherwise, punishment becomes retribution, and the second function of retraining is completely lost, if possible. And we have no retribution, if I recall correctly, since the time of the cowboys in the United States, where an unorganized sanction like the lynch was applied. Furthermore, the proponent obviously did not notice that a whole group of crimes against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which no longer exists, was to be the subject of intervention, so that instead of the SRJ, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia stands there. It wasn't a problem to do this, if we wanted to seriously deal with this law and if we had already embarked on changes and additions. We are opposed to only setting minimum penalties, although we are for tightening criminal policy, but we are always for determining both minimums and maximum penalties, otherwise we are in a situation that can always be imposed maximum punishment. This will certainly affect the policy of the judiciary in measuring the fines. We'll have very, very different practices. As you can see, I'm running across the law, but what am I supposed to do, 20 minutes is a little bit more serious about this than we used yesterday's time for these laws, because the discussion we had yesterday had absolutely no effect. I would like to give just one example, which illustrates that the proposing did not make sure that the law was consistent, because in Article 63, for the unlawful deprivement of freedom, which resulted in death, the sentence was set at five years. It would have to be seven years, because it's a minimum sentence intended for murder, as proposed by this law, which is the subject of an amendment already in the first article. So, we should let go of having to deal with problems acutely, just like they're trying to solve. When these problems were created, you didn't think about how you'd solve them, but if we're going to change the existing laws and if the Charter already obliges us to make some changes to the law, let it be done seriously. We will then shorten the time during which this assembly will constantly deal with one and the same law, because, believe me, MPs are already getting measles when they get this set of judicial laws, how many times we've had in the process in these two years. The MPs of the SRS, in any case, because of this approach to this problem, will not vote for the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27986	He has the word, as head of the parliamentary group, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27987	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable presidents, this set of laws surrounds the system of standards that this Parliament and the federal parliament have brought over the past few months in the fight against organised crime. What I would immediately recommend to those who criticise this approach to combating organised crime is to take into account the fact that every country is making such standards and such laws depending on the degree of social danger from organised crime in that country. This is also the case with an Italian example (which is classical and is always mentioned) and with some other countries, and never, or in the last hundred years, at least in Europe, happened to try a coup in a country. What we had, the assassination of the prime minister, was nothing but cooperation with some media representatives, with some corrupt people from the state authorities, with some people from political parties, but an instrumentalized attempt at a coup, and a school example. In this sense, the degree of social danger from organised crime in Serbia was maximum and, in that sense, the positive legislation to such a degree of danger must react. It should be said that this set of laws (not all judicial ones) protects the rights and persons in custody; therefore, it is not only an increase in the punishment for murder, robbery, kidnapping, extortion, but also, as it prevents, or much more stringent, sanctioning police torture and preventing the abuse of the situation and the authority of officials in the investigation process, i.e. in dealing with potential perpetrators of a criminal offence. Therefore, the criminal act of extorting statements, which apply to officials, is much more drastically sanctioned by this bill; and this also prevents the official authorities, i.e. the authorities of the MUP. What is unusually important is that in the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, we adopt a definition which we are obliged to adopt under the United Nations Convention on the fight against Transnational Organized Crime. In this Convention, organised crime is defined in a broader way. And this law is in a broader way than organised crime has been defined so far, so the criminal group is reduced to three or more members, but it is not limited to the number of crimes that we have had so far, as a description of what this criminal group is doing, to represent a criminal group of organised crime, but it is a crime that leads to the direct or indirect acquisition of material benefits, as well as groups that are in correlation, and we know very well why this norm is introduced. Not only were crime groups directly engaged in groups that were extremely dangerous to social interest in the Republic of Serbia. So these groups fall under this definition, or they are sanctioned under this law. The strategy of detention in a special detention unit, i.e. the stratification of detention provided for by this law, is very natural and is quite clear. So, 24 hours to collect the necessary notices, which is some minimum that is necessary, 30 days for persons who could interfere or prevent investigative activities, and 30 plus 30 days for those persons who have a basis of suspicion that they are perpetrators of certain criminal acts that fall under this law. Ninety days, therefore, no more than three months, as foreseen for those who need to remain in order to determine identity and capture, is once again a natural measure, therefore not sanctions, but a measure necessary to trace organised crime. Because of the specificity and power, material and every other crime that the organized crime carries with it, a somewhat longer period is necessary than otherwise provided for by the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to track these groups and to allow these groups to be effectively broken down. Amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice and the Law on Public Prosecutors make it clear that it is necessary for the prosecution, as an executive body, to be bound more closely by the Ministry of Justice, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as a special state body, which prosecutes perpetrators of criminal offences, or by a government where powers are concentrated and by the Law on Internal Affairs, therefore, and by the Ministry of Justice; that public prosecutors are appointed or elected in the Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, and that the deputy public prosecutors are appointed in the Government, on a proposal from the competent minister of justice. Criminal legislation that is being amended (the two institutes, confiscation and cumulation of penalties, which are being challenged) is also an adequate response to that degree of social danger that has emerged in Serbia because of the existence of organised crime, noting that confiscation is exclusively a secondary penalty. So far, we have had the institution of confiscation of the property benefit obtained by the execution of the crime, where the court has determined the extent of the property benefit, condemned the person against whom the verdict was issued, that the property benefit should be paid at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, or through coerced execution, but confiscation is necessary because the degree of social danger from organised crime is far greater than other criminal offences subject to criminal law and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The cumulation of penalties is also something that is fully known, something that may be more characteristic of Anglo-Saxon systems than of continental ones, but it is undeniable that after the abolition of the death penalty and because of the dramatic and dramatic consequences of organised crime in Serbia, it is important and preventive to act in this sense in order to achieve cumulation of the sentence, i.e. that it is not limited to as low as it has been so far, but that it is possible to impose a single sentence in prison, which cannot exceed the total collection of prison sentences for crimes, which he has committed, but it is quite enough to force criminals to happen to stay in prison for the rest of life. It seems to me that it's a much more effective measure than the death penalty we had until we abolished this institute. The amendments to the arms and ammunition laws also sanction an abnormal state of presence of thousands and thousands of "long pipes" and explosive devices in our population. I remind those organizations that function from circumstances to circumstances, a little bit like political parties, a little bit like paramilitary formations, that this mass possession of weapons and explosive devices is much more due to wars and all that's been going on over the past 10 years than anything else that's happened since that period. So, a minimum sentence of three years for possession of those weapons that are not allowed to be owned and a minimum sentence of five years for possession of explosive devices, it seems to me that it is also a good preventive measure for all those who think they can take the law into their own hands and act with weapons as they did in the 1990s in the streets of Serbian cities. Some have insisted that the state of emergency be abolished without any selective and particular reasons, believing that such a situation is unnecessary and intolerable, regardless of the abolition of the state of emergency, without achieving the measures and results in the investigation that is necessary, would mean amnesty of several hundred criminals, and would automatically mean the survival of organised crime. When several hundred criminals are released from custody, surely the least problem is to organise criminal groups of 300 or more. In that sense, those persons and those organisations also advocate not accepting these laws that are also nothing more than a reflection of the needs of the Republic of Serbia to fight organised crime in an effective way. We understand the motives of those politicians, those MPs whose party comrades today represent the subject of investigative actions and are located in detention units, those who participated in the organisation and protection of criminals. We also understand the motives of those who announced the bloody spring, the murder of political insolents, who announced May 29th in this congregation, and they do not seem to remember it, and we remember it very well. We can't accept that as an argument. The fight for the rule of law has no alternative for us. The fight for Serbia without drug dealers in schoolyards, no criminals on the streets, no murderers in state bodies, in the media, in political parties, there is no alternative for us. Therefore, the DOS parliamentary club – Serbia's Reform – will vote in favour of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I guess we'll welcome one day that the President of the National Assembly has the same archeology for all the MPs who come out for this pay phone. I didn't ask the bitches anything. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] So I ask you, when you come out for this pay phone, as I said well who did what and when you did, to name those you blame for participating in a coup by killing the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Say, there was this political party and that political party, so let's make a nice deal here, this microphone and this payphone. I don't see how scary it is if a hundred people are presented here in front of a single grade that is generally known, compared to the estimates that can be read in the daily press and that are read by millions of people, and it's a trick at political opponents, especially the SRS. I would just like to remind you that Mr. Vojislav Seselj began to warn you as early as January 2001 how much crime has grown in this country, who are the main criminals and mobsters and who they are in control of. I would ask you to ask your colleague Cedomir Jovanovic who visited Dusan Spasojevic in prison when he was arrested abroad for the abduction of Miskovic. Cedomir Jovanovic visited him and he insisted that the judge be released. Whoever is now involved with crime and who was involved in a coup, you can conclude on your own.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27989	I give the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic a second warning, based on article 101. The Rules of Procedure, because, among other things, she misused the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and used it as a right to replication. It's time for him to learn. Right on line, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27990	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's pointless to talk about who he is and whose MPs announced on May 29th after each presentation. It's pointless to talk about a direct threat to reckoning, but an existential reckoning with political inexperiences. I think it's completely notorious that if anyone mentions a bloody spring and represents an opposition, it's clear to whom it applies. It is totally undeniable how uncivilized and primitive such an approach towards political insolents. I never accused your party of organised crime, but I was talking about some MPs, and we all know who announced May 29th and a bloody spring, which is an unusually primitive and inappropriate way of threatening the physical liquidation of political inconsistencies. If something is going to be the fluid of all this happening in Serbia, it is that such a thing will be absolutely impossible to repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27991	We're continuing the debate according to the application for word. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27992	In the debate about six laws, we should go in a row. The first law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. This law has three system failures. The first failure is the definition of organized crime. The place for this definition is located in the material provisions of Criminal Law, not in this law. This law, by its name, should regulate the organisation of competent authorities. So, the organisation of the MUP, the organisation of the court and the organisation of the prosecution, which this job should be doing. In the area of jurisdiction, it is only necessary to tax the competences of those organisational units of the competent authorities. Unfortunately, in this bill, we have a whole series of provisions of procedural character, whose place is in the Code of Criminal Procedure. There's another major flaw, which has no reasonable reason for these procedural provisions to be so formalized that they significantly endanger fundamental human rights. It should be said that both the detained person and the person at the detention of the prison enjoys human rights. It's only limited in some rights. This assembly should be reminded that not only by entering the Council of Europe but also by some documents signed from 1970 to 1990, this country has made commitments to install these international standards into its laws, and thus in 1990 and 1993, as well as in 2001, the matter of criminal law has been changed and brought into line with European standards. One of these attempts was to remove the death penalty as sanctions, and another attempt was to lift the police detention of three days. Unfortunately, the police lobby is always there, and that's the part of the police that probably wants to put people in jail based, because they're mentally turning the prosecution and the SUP situation towards the suspect. All I have to say is that only last year we got a suspect's appointment, and that's every person that has the most harmless degree of probability or the foundation of some mild suspicion that there's some indication that something's been done. But under this law, that face goes to jail, and based on what? Based on indications, rumors, something that can't even be proved, and being put in jail to provide evidence in the follow-up procedure and provide the rest for conviction. So this law is practically impossible for us to pass. I warn the National Assembly that the provisions of this law violate the international documents we have approached. The second thing, it seems an incredible pression to the judges, who's going to lustrate even from the brain, and for what, the brain? These laws of the judge are not allowed to apply, and for what? Because they're in direct contrast to the provisions of those international documents that bind us. In addition to this claim, the position of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been changed in fact since 2000 on the relationship between our legislation and international norms. It used to be a rule that when an international contract was signed or accessed, those standards were implemented in accordance with our law, provided they were not contrary to the Constitution. As of a year ago, we have a completely different practice of giving primate to international documents, regardless of whether or not we have made a change in our legislation and whether it is in accordance with our Constitution. It should be taken care of, because, practically, the judges will be in a position not to be able to apply this law because it has an installed irregularity and contradiction with international standards, and this contrast directly concerns violations of the human rights of certain individuals. In this way, all persons who are detained, detained, sentenced have every right to report in the fourth or fifth degree to an international court, a court that recognises the Council of Europe. As far as Criminal Law is concerned, I think that this change that has been given is a step backwards, not only because some institutions that are no longer needed are being introduced, but because criminal policy cannot be changed in this way. You can't sharpen criminal policy; this is practically a blank shot. As far as the arms and ammunition laws are concerned, of course, we're all agreed that possession of an automatic rifle or an iron is a felony, and that should be a criminal offense, possession of that type of weapon. But I would warn of one right that every man has by birth, which is the right to protect his life; and, in that sense, there are some actions in the world, in the sense that legalize the possession of weapons as a means of defense, means, weapons in the house as a means of defense. We don't want to cause any problems about tightening the fines when it comes to this law, but we warn you that possession of an ordinary gun that was inherited, and no change has been made in the SUP, a far less social danger than a pit-bul terrier being kept in the apartment and walking in front of the building. I'm talking about the consequences, because the first one can never have the consequences, and this is a day-to-day possible consequence, and it's too severe a consequence.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27993	Borislav Pelevic, an authorised representative of the Soviet Parliament group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27994	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, the fight against organised crime is the national interest of every country. Of course, at this point and above all, the interest of the Serbian state. Any well-intentioned will support any form of fight against organised crime, of course, in accordance with existing regulations, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and in accordance with European Conventions on Human Rights. That, therefore, is not at all questionable for the Soviet Party. However, this set of laws, in particular the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime, has two major shortcomings. The first is that the concept is left out - the fight against corruption, and we are witnessing that there is a fight in all European institutions not only against organised crime but also against corruption. Evidence of this is an ongoing investigation that has shown that there are also many corrupt officials in the public authorities, especially in the prosecution and the judiciary. I think the lack of a legislator of this law is that he did not engage in the fight against organised crime and the fight against corruption at all levels. It's the first flaw in my humble opinion. Another lack is the non-compliance of this set of laws, especially when it comes to the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime, with the Constitutional Charter. As with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties and the European Convention on Human Rights. I am not very interested in the fact that this bill is not in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, because we are witnessing that the international community is very much not sticking to its resolutions and its conventions, and the evidence of this is that this community is being incorporated into Resolution 1244 on Kosovo and Metohija, brought by the Security Council -- here, for the fourth year it has not been applied. Therefore, it does not concern me much, but also how it concerns the non-compliance of individual members of this bill with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The only law last year voted for by the Soviet Union was precisely this law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime. We have the best will and desire to support the bill this time, of course, provided that some things improve and comply with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. I will, in particular, retain that last year, when we discussed the adoption of the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the fight against organised crime, we talked a lot about it, as well as the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. At that time, we - our MPs Dragan Markovic - Palma, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Urosevic and I - asked for a tightened criminal policy and gave countless amendments that had to tighten certain provisions and members of the Criminal Law at that time. Unfortunately, the majority of the congregation did not listen to our proposals at the time, and I am sure that there was then hearing and that our proposals were adopted so that we would not now discuss, even if not the amendments and additions to the Criminal Law and the basis of the Criminal Law, or Criminal Law of the SRJ which will now be renamed with full law into the basic criminal law. So these were our many amendments and proposals, especially when it came to the Security and Information Agency Act, the Law on Combating Organized Crime and Criminal Law. I am sorry that now there is not enough time to read to you the stenograms of what the MPs of the Soviet Union have said and I think that reading of the stenographic notes would convince many of you who even today connected the SS with organised crime or with paramilitary formations, etc. At the very least, it's not correct and it's not fair. I'm sure you'll be as sorry as you are tomorrow, when this investigation is over, for the members of the Soviet Parliament's group, but let's leave it to them and the time to come. What's important is that we're asking that and BIA deal with organized crime. That's when the police chief refused, because he said it was in this law on fighting organised crime. Wasn't it appropriate to also adopt it in the BIA law, because what was actually the work of the BIA if it wasn't primarily a fight against organised crime. Unfortunately, that amendment of ours has not passed, and I'm sure it should have passed today. We also talked about tightening criminal policy, especially when it comes to organised crime and endangering constitutional order, especially when it comes to drug dealers, the production and traffic of intoxicating drugs. And that amendment of ours has not, unfortunately, been adopted. We asked for the death penalty not to be abolished, although it is contrary to the European Conventions on Human Rights. We live in a specific area, still burdened with memories of war. The war was recently over and there are a lot of guns, a lot of frustrated people, a lot of people who came out of the war not quite normal, the way they entered the war. So we asked to keep the life sentence. When that didn't go away, we asked for the institute of life imprisonment. Please, many states, civilized or most democratic, as they call themselves, as the United States, have a death penalty institute. So 25 states in the U.S. have a death sentence. In Texas alone, the highest death penalty in the entire U.S. is said to be the most democratic country. What cared was that for another period, in five, six, ten years he would be detained by the Institute of Death Penalty or at least life imprisonment. Unfortunately, that didn't go away, but now there are those who think the same way we thought then and as we think now. We asked that these measures be given greater authority both to the police and to the judicial authorities. Mr. Dragan Markovic then said, I will paraphrasise him, it is a shame to catch a criminal and to conduct himself at the judge's office and to be released after four hours at the request of his lawyer and later found to have committed a crime. So that's what we've been looking for, I repeat, if our proposals had been passed maybe today we wouldn't even be discussing amendments to the Criminal Law and the basic criminal law. This bill of law has a lot of inaccuracies, a lot of inaccuracies. I'll try to count them. I'm talking about the law on fighting organized crime. First of all, I'm being challenged by Article 2(2), who is talking about some other organized group. It is said: "The second organised group of Article 2 of this Law implies a group that is not educated in order to directly commit crimes, nor does it have such a developed organisational structure, defined roles and continuity of membership of its members, but is in the function of organised crime". I have studied the European Convention on Human Rights and have not come across such a term and term as other organized groups. If political parties are not meant here, then it is indeed a struggle against political insolents. I suggest that Article 2 be deleted, and that is the proposal of our amendments, because I don't think there is any other organised group that is not educated in order to do crimes directly. What kind of group is that? At least that's not the exact term. I think the amendments should erase the position of the 2nd member. Also, what is problematic and inaccurate in Article 15b is whether this is about a potential witness who is being detained within 24 hours or a person who is in some way directly or indirectly associated with organised crime. If it's a witness, then it really is contrary to all human rights conventions. I suppose that's the case, but it's not specified in this article, I guess it's just that this is about a person who's in some relationship, directly or indirectly, with organized crime, but not a witness who's being held in custody in that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27995	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27996	A new detention and preventive detention institute has been introduced here. We need to be clear about the fact that it's about the arrest, or the detention. It's just another word for it. This shall not be disputed if it is a detention or a preventive detention in the jurisdiction of the competent court, as defined in Article 1(1). 14th and 15th. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27997	People's MP, do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27998	Yes, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u27999	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28000	If it's in the jurisdiction of an investigative judge, then it has a basis in the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. If a person is brought in by a service, or a police officer, or by a prosecutor or a public prosecutor, then it is at odds with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, and it must be amended, if we want to respect what has been adopted both in this assembly and in the Federal Assembly, which is the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. Therefore, I expect that an amendment, which will be adopted by Article 15b, Article 15a and Article 15g, will especially improve, will be adopted, that the person detained, or detained, has the right to appeal, the right to inform the members of the nearest family and the right to an attorney at the hearing. Of course, on the condition that neither a police officer nor a prosecutor was assigned to custody, but an investigative judge. So, the competent judicial authority. This would be in line with both the European Convention and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. Of course, it could not be for 30 days, but for 48 hours, in article 15. These are some things to pay particular attention to. I really expect that this assembly will adopt amendments that say that it will not be able to detain a police officer or prosecutor, but a competent judicial authority, as is the case in the Constitutional Charter, in the Charter of Minority Rights, in the European Convention on Human and Minority Rights. Since such amendments exist, I expect it to be adopted; if adopted, in that case the law will be significantly improved and no one will be able to make relevant remarks to that law. It is Articles 14 and 15. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, and I will quote those attitudes that specifically refer to this. So: "Anyone who is deprived of freedom must be immediately informed of the reasons for the deprivement of freedom, as well as his rights. Anyone deprived of liberty has the right to notify the person of his choice without delay." Article 15. The Charter of Minority Rights says: "The arrested person must be brought to court without delay, no later than 48 hours. Otherwise, it's released. The person suspected of committing a criminal offence may only be detained by a decision of the competent court, if necessary for the purpose of carrying out the criminal proceedings." Since there are many amendments to this, I hope that this assembly will adopt these amendments and thus bring this law into line with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. As for the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code of the SRJ, i.e. the future basic criminal law, the SSJ welcomes any tightening of criminal penalties, and we particularly welcome the high penalties provided for the production and traffic of intoxicating drugs, especially for manufacturers and drug dealers, because this is a danger that concerns all of us, regardless of the political option. As far as our children are concerned, it concerns the future of this country. Therefore, if this law on the fight against crime is brought into line with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, the Soviet Union will support this law, as we supported it last year, and we will support the Criminal Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28001	We're continuing the debate. According to reports for the People's MPs, the word has been issued by MP Zoran Angelkovic, the SPS parliamentary group. The next reported MP, Slobodan Adzic, is the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28002	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a position to discuss a huge package of laws, which is extremely important for the citizens of Serbia. We are talking about this package of laws against everything that has been said in the previous two years here in the Serbian Parliament. In the previous two years, representatives of the government, the government and the DOS parliamentary groups -- reforms -- have been full of mouth stories about how every law, every act proposed here, should be in line with European conventions, transparent, reform law. Today we can't hear these words here, today we can't hear those words, and we can't hear them for the last few weeks, and we can't hear them saying that the laws that are proposed are more transparent, more reformative, that these laws are in accordance with European conventions, we don't hear them. We can't hear. That they're not transparent, of course, it's quite clear. Yesterday I used one term, I said that by talking about such an important law as the Law on the Change of the Constitution, we are talking at some sort of secret session. In that sense, she's not closed, but she's closed to the public, because there's no reporting. I said, we'll see tomorrow in the paper what it's like and what it's gonna be about this law. I only took newspapers that were printed in several hundred thousand copies: "News", as a state paper, where, for example, what the SPS parliamentary group discussed about such an important law. That's what I'm saying because of this law. He says, "A similar view was given by the Socialist Party of Serbia." In Blic, which is also printed in several hundred thousand copies, there is not a single sentence. Now, that's how we need to talk today about a package of laws concerning Serbian citizens, about the fact that Serbian citizens have to understand that they will be fined rigorously if they keep their weapons on them. The party president can't find out this, of course, is not in a position to find out. (Vladan Batić, from the site: Please explain it to us. ) It's out of the blue. I'll explain it to you after transparently in the hallway, because the president can warn me if I step away from the subject. It says that the citizens of Serbia will not be familiar with either the arguments of the parliamentary majority, the parliamentary minority, the opposition, or the authorities, about what is proposed in this huge package of laws, what will change. All of this concerns them, how they will behave, will they contribute to a total brooch against organised crime. There is no fight against organised crime without the help of the citizens. If Serbian citizens do not accept it as a common struggle, then neither the official state authorities will be able to successfully implement the fight against organised crime. If Serbian citizens accept it as part of themselves and as part of the obligation, and as part of something that helps them, then they must be aware of what these arguments are to adopt such legal acts here, what are the arguments put forward by the opposition, which is the government, which are the representatives of the proposings, in the end. Unfortunately, all we're talking about here today is a story for a dozen listeners. The others are reading the paper. Everything else is excess. Of course, and for those who write memoirs, it's useful, because it's going to stay for what anyone stood for. But there is essentially no use in what, how and how to convince both Serbian lawmakers and citizens about what needs to be accepted and what not to accept. The second question, when it comes to laws themselves, is not recommended anywhere in the world for these laws to be passed during an emergency. It is not recommended, not good, not useful, because the atmosphere of the emergency situation itself in the state and in the state authorities has a different tension, a different approach, has a radical approach, in the end of the day, which conflictes with any normal resolution in normal situations. Such an atmosphere, when passed into the law, cannot give appropriate legal solutions that are useful to Serbian citizens. Well, well, we're where we are. We have laws ahead of us. Some are useful, some are not, but anyway. When it comes to a few of the issues that are most mentioned here and which are most problematic, these are detentions in custody, at all, these dragon sentences, etc. We can't just talk a few months earlier about how we're going to respect human rights, how that minimum or even that level of human rights, which has been achieved, is going to be respected, and on the other hand, after a few months or a few weeks to change it. Many quoted this member of the Constitutional Charter as saying that without the law on guaranteed human rights, the Constitutional Charter could not be adopted either. Article 15 states: "The arrested person must be brought before the competent court without delay, and no later than 48 hours. Otherwise, it is released." Then, in the second position: "The person suspected of committing a crime can appeal to a competent court" etc. Of course, all of this is now proposed contrary to the Constitutional Charter, we build into laws that someone can be detained for 15 days, so 30 days, 60 days, then six months, so as long as, for the rest of their lives, without any legal basis, without any legal procedure. If we add to that that one who is to complain, he should appeal to the cadiya, not to the court, so he complains to the one who's running the lawsuit against him -- the prosecution, then there are no guaranteed rights. I've seen an amendment here that speaks of it, a member of the DOS amendment -- reform, part of the DOS -- reform. You don't know who or what that amendment has or doesn't have anymore. Of course, we will support this amendment, no matter what comes from DOS -- reform, we just don't know from what part, but anyway. This refers to the opposite of this article and this proposal with any convention, with any legal and constitutional powers. This article violates the Constitutional Charter, which you adopted, because we did not vote for it, and the Constitution that we adopted. And a valid Constitution of Serbia and a valid Constitutional Charter. So, as you say -- what the former regime has brought, and what the current regime has brought, no longer applies, everything is broken, everything is thrown on the floor, and a law that is opposite of both the Constitution and the Constitutional Charter is passed. All right, people, can any MP here, whether he's from a position or opposition, press a key and vote for a member of the law he knows in advance, that he's the opposite of both the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution. That's exactly what we're doing here today. Why? Who gives whom the right to advance knowledge of the law and to vote in favour of a member who is opposed to the Constitutional Charter and the Constitutional Law. Now you can't say you don't know. It says here. You voted. You were in on it. You wrote that. So it's not a story about someone being led astray. No one has been led astray, but you knowingly violate the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution. The second question is a violation of the Constitution. When it comes to the prosecution, the rights of the prosecution and the rights of the prosecutor are one thing. The second thing is that the Constitution says very precisely - the separation of judicial, legislative and executive authorities. I understand in the debate, when it comes to changing the Constitution and the future constitution, and what's written in that draft constitutional declaration, which will be adopted here, that no one will give up on that principle. He won't even give up the ruling part. Neither will the ruling regime give up the principle of separation of judicial, executive and legislative authorities. How it won't, when we have a law that gives up on it and the D.A. represents and is tied entirely to the executive power. I'm sorry the Justice Minister's out now. The justice minister becomes Serbia's biggest public prosecutor and chief public prosecutor, as he appoints deputies. In fact, the government, but he suggests, therefore, it appoints deputy prosecutors, he appoints a prosecutor, by proposing to the government, the Government of the Parliament, and it is already known how it goes. It is a complete takeover by the executive authority of the judicial office, which should be fully independent. It just can't drink water. One thing is to fight organised crime, and another is to run a political campaign against political opponents. Two years ago, an extraprofit law was passed here, and a list was made against which people would be campaigning. What about Schiller? It's worth 10m euros. That's what you said. That's over 500,000 marks. Who started the dispute to determine the extra profit, that's 9.5m euros in extra profit? Is a 9.5m-euro solution sent to the extraprofit? You can't say you didn't see it. Whoever was there at the opening, he could see. I don't know who he was, but someone did. They say there were hundreds of people. It was built, however, at this time, not built during the former regime. Therefore, the matter is quite clear. I ask that laws be applied until the end of the conflict and we will come into a situation that all together, both the position and the opposition, but also the citizens of Serbia, help fight organised crime. That's the point here. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: You killed. Mrs. Milka, you're in charge of throwing everyone away. You're probably paid to throw out of place, not throw out of a pay phone. If you have something to say, it's finally time for me to see you behind this pay phone, once you say something from this pay phone, to get into a stenogram and a history of what you stood for, what you fight for, what your political views are. Your political attitudes from the bench are a matter of political marketing, of trying to destabilize someone, of someone who speaks from a pay phone. As far as I'm concerned, the more you throw me, the more you inspire me to talk. I love it when you throw it at me, I just can't hear you because you talk slow. There's no television transmission and, therefore, I'm not saying this because of the people, but because of you. When it's a television broadcast, I'm going to repeat this, don't worry about it. There is time for all of this to happen again, to be said and, in that sense, to clarify ourselves on this issue. It would be good if we took legal penalties, to compare a little bit, ( since we want to be transparent and a part of Europe) what they are for the same criminal offence in other European countries, what they are in those who want to become members of the European Union - we should compare with them, with countries in transition that have similar problems with organised crime. Let's see how they handled it and what are the legal penalties. In some of the elements of criminal law, we have twice as many penalties, and in another three times as much, and we want to be part of the European Union and yesterday we entered the Council of Europe. It's not just about entering the Council of Europe, it's about taking pictures at the Council of Europe Assembly. Entry into the Council of Europe is the adjustment of all legislative regulations and all legal solutions that are ahead. It's not hard for me that you're making a lot of noise. It means that I am right as soon as you are making such a fuss, but it is essential that this remains written and that you simply, when in a few months, and I am absolutely sure, and perhaps early in the summer, suggest that you amend this law and come to a new law, which will be adapted to the Council of Europe and the European Union, because we will be forced together to do so, to adapt to the documents and legal solutions of the Council of Europe and of the European Union, that we can then clearly read together what we were saying. (Milka Marinkovic from the site: Learn the slopes. I am proud of my birthplace, of my mother, and of all the positive and negative things that I am from that area and that I got from my mother. Thank you very much, and I'll see you when you propose to amend this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28003	The People's Messenger, Slobodan Adzic, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28004	Dear fellow MPs, first of all, do not see any reason why this session of the Assembly is not being broadcast on state television if the public is very interested in the issues of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the fight against organised crime, on which senior state officials from the executive authority speak on a daily basis in numerous media. There is no reason for the public not to hear the views of the MPs on these issues. I hope you do not think that the change in the Constitution of Serbia is a struggle against the crime of the ruling parties and MPs of the ruling parties. Secondly, it is difficult to hold a debate, and in particular to participate in the principle debate, when six points of the agenda and six draft laws are attached in a single debate. This way of working in the congregation directly endangers the right of MPs to participate in the work. I hope that in the future, those who support this will take care of it and respect the National Assembly more, as well as themselves. What is common for all draft laws in the field of justice and criminal law which are on the agenda is an attempt to increase the efficiency of the work of state authorities and tighten criminal policy with the aim of curbing crime in society, and particularly organised. You are familiar with the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia on the permanent indication of the existence of organised crime in relation to individuals in power, both before the 2000 elections and during the period of DSS participation in the government, and during the period of DOS rule. In that sense, we pointed out that the government is doing a little bit of crime prevention and that no one associated with crime, whether general or economic, should be protected. Unfortunately, the Serbian government only understood this when the crime victim became Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. I would not agree with the promoter that the laws were an obstacle if crime control did not begin immediately after the government's conquest. By putting the agenda of the law under an emergency procedure in public, it can be assumed that the laws were an obstacle. I don't think we should deceive the citizens. Let us take, for example, a bill of arms. It is proposed to tighten the fine for illegal weapons possession from six months to three years on a one-to-five-year sentence. If it was known, and it was known that there are many illegal weapons owners in Serbia, then the Serbian government could have suggested tightening the fine much earlier, thus eliminating the possibility of a number of serious crimes being committed. Although I think the old law could have done a lot, the state authorities were as active as they are today. In the light of the proposal for a law amending the Criminal Law, the SRJ states that the reason for amending the law is that there has been an increase in the number of executions of certain criminal offences, so it is necessary to tighten the criminal policy. The same changes are introduced as a secondary penalty for confiscation of assets. I would ask the government here -- why now, suddenly, information that we have an increase in crime, when we are also MPs, and Serbian citizens from that same government are informed that Serbia is the safest country in Europe. Confiscation is a measure that is very controversial, and I think it is more an expression of the impotence of the investigative, public and judicial bodies to prove that part of the property of the person against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted is acquired, because otherwise the Criminal Law foresees a measure of confiscation of the case or property acquired by criminal acts. Any proposed changes to the law in form and contained as proposed by the Serbian government will undoubtedly be voted by the assembly majority, but I would like to appeal that in order to preserve credibility among international institutions, the DSS amendments to which the draft laws are corrected, as the amendment aims to bring the laws into line with international legal standards and international law norms at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28005	The People's Messenger Petar Petrovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28006	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the little time we have available to discuss such a set of laws for longer, I will remain in front of the Serbian Unity Party for only two of the proposed six laws. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Prosecution, among other things, proposes two very important newspapers, which is a way of electing public prosecutors and their deputies and working experience needed to work in prosecutors. In the view of the parliamentary club, the Soviet Union is not overall and it is not justified for public prosecutors, i.e. deputy public prosecutors, municipal and district attorneys, to be elected by the government on a proposal from the minister. We believe that this should remain in the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and we can discuss the matter of the promoter. So, we are exclusively in favour of public prosecutors and their deputies being elected in the National Assembly. On the other hand, when it comes to the constitutionality of the public prosecutor's office, we think it is not justified for public prosecutors to be permanent, i.e. from the day of the election to the day of the end of the working relationship to be at the post and that their deputies are elected for eight years. It is justified, since the employees of the public prosecutor's office are just the deputies of municipal and district public prosecutors, that the continuity be equal. Either the other will be permanent, or both will be elected for eight years. When it comes to working experience, it is unwarranted and not overall, in our opinion, that a person with two years of legal experience can be selected for the municipal public prosecutor, and for the deputy only a year, that is, for the district attorney for four years, and for the deputy three. We have proposed an amendment requiring at least increasing the working experience required for the work of the public prosecutor and his deputy, while at the same time spending a certain period of time, at least a year, or for the district attorney for at least two years, on the work of the judiciary. We will come to an absurd situation, as it happened in the election of some municipal public prosecutors, as if there were those who did not spend the day in the judiciary, they came to such important functions; before that they were (I have to use that term) in some small companies, where they simply did the jobs of a secretary, a graduate lawyer, and they did not meet with any criminal charges, or anything from criminal-legal matter. It's also important for district attorneys, that at least they have two or three years of experience in the judiciary. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, I will remind you that right in front of the Soviets, from this pay phone, I have requested a tightening of criminal policy in the then proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. Unfortunately, I am not supported by me or the rest of the Soviets, in those intentions and our proposals. I am pleased that the ministry has realized that it is necessary for the criminal policy to be more severe, in order to prevent the future perpetrators of criminal acts from being committed. Especially now, I urge that some subsequent amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in particular protect private property, and its defence, and that the perpetrators of criminal acts against personality and morals be severely punished. I also spoke, and I will repeat, especially those who commit crimes of promise over an powerless face, rape, anti-natural fornication, etc. It is necessary to punish far more severely and to act exactly preventively against it. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but we keep hearing that we need to improve the conditions in our prisons. I agree with that, but previously, ladies and gentlemen, we should improve the conditions of life and the work of honest citizens of this country, to improve their economic and social position, and then think about improving the lives of those most orthodox criminals, who have lived in this way for many years, because, simply, their only life is good for them to live in prisons. Do we want to take care of them, or the citizens of Serbia? In the opinion of the Soviet Union, we should first fight for a better position for the citizens of Serbia, and only then for a better position of criminals who support the sentences in our prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28007	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic tells them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28008	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I lived in belief, at least that's how the government used to say, listen to electronic media, read in the papers, listen to various statements, especially in Nis, how we live in a safe state, in safe cities, in cities where there is no crime, where the number of solved acts of the most serious crime is increased, to reduce the sale of drugs on the streets, that there are fewer firearms, violence, etc. It seems that the information that was coming to us was wrong, because now we find out that the entire state has made crime, that there is crime in the state services, in the judiciary, in the MUP, among government officials, and as you say, and you never prove it, both between political parties and members of various political groups. And what citizens expect from their country, which is taxed, whose army they serve, and where they live and work -- expect to have a minimum existence, if they can't already have prosperity, expect to be protected from violence on the streets, to be protected from the illegal conduct of state authorities, from the means available to the state, which they often use in an illegal manner or with excessive use. What we, as members of the SRS and MPs of the SRS, expect is to tighten sanctions for the most serious crimes. We want the drugs to be removed from our streets forever, that the children go freely and peacefully to their schools, that in conditions and when the state of emergency is protected not only by government officials and MPs, but also by children who go to kindergarten and school, they are safe and safe. And is that how it is now, is it necessary, in order to solve crime, to introduce an emergency and to change a large number of laws in these conditions? We can't say that the penalties for illegal possession of weapons are too strict, we can't say that we can also be solid to those who hold bazookas, bombs in their homes, who hold those assets that half the city can blow up. I don't even agree that citizens carry guns with them when they go out into the streets. I'd like to live in a country where the police protect all citizens and that no one needs to worry about their personal safety alone. But, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, as members of the SRS, we cannot support legal proposals in which detention can be extended to 270 days, and the conditions for its extension and its leadership are unclear. We cannot support the re-enlisting of a service, as if remanding is our destiny, that someone without a court order can bring and extend that detention, we cannot support those preventive detentions, which is decided by someone who is not authorized by the court. We think that in 1944 and 1945, many injustices, many, on suspicion alone or in order to obtain someone’s property, took away the entire property and property. We agree that those assets that have been acquired as a result of committing a crime will be seized, confiscated, but not everything anyone has acquired, or generations have gained, or belongs to the children of the perpetrator of the crime. The setting of penalties without the upper limit, for example, says -- will be punishable by a prison of at least three years; and what is the upper limit, what is the limit, does that mean from three to a hundred years; it cannot also be supported by the SRS. We think this state of emergency will last, although we disagreed with its introduction, although we think that crime could be resolved without introducing an emergency, which still has a limited duration. But we can't support the state of emergency in this way and when it's lifted. Because if we threaten to achieve a degree of freedom of citizens, the right of people to feel safe and protected from the repression of state authorities, then nothing will help us, because instead of one crime that existed on the street, we will have a crime of state authorities and it will again be citizens who will suffer torture. It doesn't matter if they suffer from criminals on the street or the illegal conduct of state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28009	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28010	Ladies and gentlemen, it is really very debateable that in an emergency, a set of laws in the area of justice, in the area of criminal law, which regulates a very delicate issue, which has not been sufficiently investigated in scientific circles, and in many countries, enormous and enormous efforts are being made to explore the best view of the solution to issues so-called. organized crime. Of course, the handicap in all of this is on the soul of the ruling structure and the ruling set in this Parliament and Serbia, which is that six really crucial laws are brought together in one debate, so that the time foreseen to explain the changes and additions to these laws, especially in the law on the prevention of organised crime, is maximumly limited. However, what is there is, that I would not continue to spend the time it is and in so short, I will move on to explain the envisaged solutions, as I have already said, to curb organised crime, because the opening debate explained that the main objective of all these amendments and the addition of six system laws, including the Criminal Law, is to prepare and create conditions for the more effective fight and control of organised crime in our country. With that in mind, I must say that a large number of envisaged norms in these amendments and additions to the law are not only unconstitutional but also contrary to the provisions of international law, provisions that we have accepted by joining the Council of Europe. If we want to go to the Council of Europe, we have to deal with our legal projects in a more valid way, so we don't sit here and in infinity, who knows which way, change what's not good. Examples tell us that in many cases, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has already shown that what is not right cannot be passed in this Constitutional Court, and what is proposed in this assembly. However, we return to organized crime. As I said before, one of the most dangerous and at the same time the least known types of crime is organized crime, which is not sufficiently scientific, but is also surrounded by mystic, secret. Mystics are further supporting the means of mass communication, and we have an obvious example today in Serbia of how this is done. To address this problem very structurally, numerous UN resolutions, including at the VII Congress against Organized Crime in Milan, the VIII UN Congress in Havana, the Resolution on Recruitment, etc., were put in place. But what is essential is that it must really be studioed up to explain or edit the very concept of organised crime. There are two theories. One theory is narrow, another theory is wider. The wider theory allows very great self-will to authorities who can freely interpret what organized crime is and that against such organised crime, understood in the broadest way, struggle or use the means of physical coercion to combat organised crime. Our opinion is that it must be approached by the restrictive definition of organised crime, which, among other things, has been applied in the current text of the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime. I'll remind you that the first approach that determines organised crime is broader and defines it as the activity of criminal organisations. So as soon as there's a criminal organization, there's organized crime. It is an extremely broad definition and it is foreseen in these amendments and additions to the laws on the prevention of organised crime. This could lead to major abuses in the area. The second, narrow system of understanding or defining organised crime was specified by Italian author Giovanni Fjondaka, who cited four conditions to call some activity organised crime. These are: 1) an organised dimension, therefore, that there is a criminal organisation; 2) the organisation of activity of an economic type or a criminal corporation; 3) the use of violence to preserve positions, championships or monopolys to spread profits, but also the financing of murder in order to prevent the application of the right or to prevent political decisions that threaten them; 4) corruption of police, judicial and political-executive authorities, which is most important. In our opinion, we should adopt a narrow definition, as we have proposed to the amendments. We have suggested that there remain a concept of the applicable text of the law, which implies the taxing of the conditions I have read. So all we have to do is distinguish between the existence of criminal organisations that are indisputably more or less in all countries today than organized crime, whose organisation is conditio son luja non, therefore the basic reason of existence, but not sufficient conditions for existence. Of the other important lines, of these four characteristics, is the fourth most important. Pay attention, it's infiltrating the structure of a government that starts working for a criminal organization or at least guaranteeing her immunity. This understood definition of organised crime in the draft amending and supplementing the law, I am afraid, there is indeed no basis in parallel law and represents very broad powers to combat organised crime, which can also mean fighting political opponents and the widest possible form of repression under very discriminatory conditions. I'm going to remind myself that a large number of states were also climbing to find good legal solutions to curb organized crime, so in the United States in 1970, it was brought to Organized Crime Control Act. Italy has a number of anti-mafian or anti-mafia regulations. The biggest problem is the fact that their organizers, due to the developed system and the mechanism of corrupting the authorities' institutions, are being abolized by prosecution. I will once again underline what is most important, and that is the fourth condition -- infiltration into the structure of government. So organized crime doesn't exist without infiltrating the structure of government. That's basic. That's the bottom line of the problem we need to solve. What is foreseen by the amendments and additions of this act annuls this conditio son of a lilies non and enables broad interpretation and abuse of authorities in the fight against organised crime. That's not good. The SPS responded to the amendments. We tried to let you know that the proposed solution is not good, that the better solution that is in the current legal text. I hope you will have understanding if your wish is a real fight against organised crime, and for reasons and for the intentions that we as SPS have expressed in that direction. The second thing that is foreseen by the law, which is very negative, is the introduction of police detention. Namely, a large number of international organisations were extremely active when the issue of police detention, which was current by 1990, was to be considered, when there were many calls to the Criminal Procedure Act, which enabled police authorities of certain abuses in the area. Because of the inaccuracy of the formulation contained in the present Code of Criminal Procedure, it could have been that the police authorities, the authorities of the executive authority, arrested the accused of committing a criminal offence and, without any valid reason and without direct enforcement before the judicial authorities, kept him in custody for a certain period of time. The deadline was 48 hours, so it was reduced to 24 hours, and today, due to the provisions of Article 3 of the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the law on the fight against organised crime, conditions are created that police detention, detention of a person, contrary to the provisions of all international laws, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure, can hypothetically last for up to three months, five months, as long as they are requested. The reasons for this are set out in Article 15b; - an authorised official may, and without a court order, be forced to bring and hold a person in the offices of the service, in order to collect information and evidence of organised crime, up to 24 hours; and to his reasoned proposal, police detention may be extended by a special prosecutor for another 30 days. Hypothetically, another type of police detention is formulated by Article 15g, which says: "The person for whom there is a basis and suspected of committing a crime with an element of organised crime can be kept in the rooms of a special detention unit for up to 30 days". So we have a situation where someone can be detained for up to 30 days because of the need to obtain evidence of organised crime, so that this person, who has been found to have been involved in organised crime, is reprisoned, and the solution of the interior minister can be extended for another 30 days. Such a provision will not pass in the Constitutional Court. It will lead us to major problems that we will have with international organisations, primarily with the Council of Europe. Such a provision will allow a wide range of people who are under pressure to fight organised crime to be brought in under this law and to seek compensation for damages to be brought in by the state. This could lead to major problems in our country. Since I'm being warned in time, which I don't have enough, I'm not going to talk too much about amending the Arms and Ammo Act. We have one amendment on that. Amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office are contained in one. What is most important is that here is the ultimate restrictive solution, which allows for the direct interference of the executive authority in the court, which was not at our time, at the time of the application of the Law on Public Prosecutors, which was adopted in 1991, which was changed in 1992, when the National Assembly elected both the Republic Public Prosecutor and all the Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, nor has such a solution been provided in the amended Law on Public Prosecutors since October 2001, when the authority of the High Council of Justice, the new body in the judicial system, was proposed to the Assembly by all the holders of the Public Prosecutors, therefore the Public Prosecutors and the Deputy Prosecutors, and that, which is a democratic principle, the National Assembly under that proposal. The envisaged solution deletes the powers of the High Council of Justice in favour of the executive authority and gives authority, practically to the government to propose to elect a public prosecutor to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and, more drastically, to appoint deputy public prosecutors. It's a really inappropriate solution, it didn't exist at any time, and if you go to democracy you'll have to ask yourself if this is in line with the basic democratic principles of the division of power, or if this is the introduction of a dictatorship on a small door. Raising the executive power is exactly what it is, but all the laws testify about those who vote for them, and this law will also testify about what the current government, DOS authorities in Serbia are like. Accordingly, the amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice have been proposed and I do not think that too much should be spent on this, because I have already said that it is a matter of repealing the role of the High Council of Justice as an expert body that will have both a narrow and an extended composition, where representatives of the judicial and executive authorities will enter, as well as representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is crucial to speed up the independent judiciary. Of course, and the independence of the public prosecutor's office as one judicial authority that must remain there, not to extend the arm of the MUP, the Ministry of Justice and the executive authorities. With this in mind, there were neither such solutions at the time of the previous law nor at the time of the applicable law; this is a practical humiliation of the rights which the independent judicial authority had in relation to the existing one. I think that's an unacceptable solution. If you think the proposed solution is good, you will vote for it, regardless of all the arguments you hear from this pay phone, and I think these arguments are supported by facts, because look at the previous laws, look at the administrative and legal solutions, and you will see that it is. Let me say a few words about the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Criminal Law and amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. It is really very important that one country finds an optimal measure between two principles. So, a country that finds an optimal measure between the principle of punishing those who carry out criminal activities and the principles of human freedoms and rights, it can be said that it has done a good job and that it is successful. All countries have the intensities to comply in an optimal way with the protection of human and civil rights and the punishment of those perpetrators of incriminating crimes in accordance with the principle (zero crimen zero points son of a leg), but I must point out that many mistakes have been made at this time. Before I move on to explaining the specific provisions, I have to say a few words that reflect the situation after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, which regulates the adoption of new laws or the harmonisation of republican laws with federal law. In front of this parliament or in front of some other parliament that comes after us, there is no doubt a great deal of harmonisation of all the laws, including in this criminal-law area, in a comprehensive way, so that we do not have a situation that is in force today, which is that we have one general law or basic law, that here in the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are proposed, and that we have one, (for if this is basic, what is this, complementary) republican criminal law with partially non-compliant provisions that are trying to comply in a partial way. There is, therefore, a very complex business, which will be witnessed by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, who unfortunately are not there, and I was hoping that they will be here, so we will be able to settle on the basis of arguments, so that we can come up with a common solution that would be a good solution from the point of view (because I am a Pyrocan, as well as some in this assembly) of economics, that our Assembly does not deal with the same things a thousand times. I'll remind you that we've talked about judicial laws three times in a year and two months, and then we've spent people's money on everything and everything, and we haven't solved this fundamental problem that is related to criminal law, which is - we haven't solved the very causes of criminal activity in a society. So my appeal is that this assembly must deal more with solving the causes leading to all these criminal acts, criminal acts, resolving the economic and social conditions that drive people, whether we interpret it, to counter-action in order to obtain certain benefits. Unfortunately, this assembly has been more concerned with the regulation of the judicial system, and now we will be dealing for the first time, in fact, for the second time, with criminal-legal matter, and we will not reach a comprehensive system of unification of criminal-law matter. Therefore, the specific solutions provided for in this amendment of the law concern, first of all, the introduction of criminal confiscation and property. I remind you that the famous lawyer of Cesare Bekari in 1764 in his work on crimes and punishments has just criticised the way, i.e. the punishment of confiscation. However, you must understand that confiscation of assets must only apply to the property acquired by the incriminating act, but not to the general property, and that there is no such property in any legal system. On the other hand, gentlemen, the argument is on our side, you're going to have to agree with the fact that the solutions that predict the acquisition and return of earlier solutions to a particularly difficult case and to delete the provisions in multiple returns can lead to the introduction of a life sentence on a small door, contrary to the provisions of all, but indeed all legal reasons. And I have to say that the life sentence is unacceptable for human and economic reasons, but I'll say a few words about it later when I explain the amendments that the SPS has submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28011	The word has been given by MP Dusan Budishin, followed by MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28012	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very difficult to talk about a variety of matter, unfortunately, we have combined seven points of the agenda in total, so that a crucial matter must still be discussed, I would say, in a hurry. When it comes to the Arms and Ammunition Act, I'd like to make only two remarks. The president of our parliamentary group spoke about it, and the DSS has been in favour of tightening the fines in the area before. I'd say this is a measure, but it's too late. Why? From the previous period, we inherited a large amount of weapons, ammunition, and more than that, funds that could lead to injury, loss of human lives, destruction of property, and did not respond in time. I remember a time when you could buy cashiers at every Belgrade market under the greens. As much as my memory serves, the price was on average 50 marks. It was necessary to react, therefore, much earlier, and to react would not have been the consequences that we later experienced. That's one thing. The second thing, if we are talking about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, the DSS has given its amendments, and we will explain it more when it comes to order. However, since it is a very important matter, which is intruding into human rights, I don't think it's intrusive to point out the following. It has started quite hasty and I am really interested -- now that we have officially become members of the Council of Europe, that some of the solutions agreed in this bill with the international pact on civil and political rights; I will remind you that since 1966, the UN General Assembly has been applying us since 1976. It's very important, and we really need to think about it, as several members of this pact say. I really need to quote some provisions, I think we're going to have trouble with the Council of Europe. "The member states of this pact, which are used by the right of derogation, must immediately, through the UN Secretary-General, declare to the other Member States provisions from which they have deviated, as well as the reasons for their derogation." So this is the exception. It's very dangerous. What did we do? We have provided by draft law, Article 15b, 15v and 15g, for the purpose of depriveing themselves of freedom and preventatively retaining persons who can provide information and evidence of organised crime, so he says, 24 hours. You can baptize one thing however you want, but it remains the essence. This is no detention, ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple detention. So it's an attack on the freedom of a person. It deprives itself of freedom here, not of one suspected of a crime, but of a witness. How it will fit into the provisions of the said pact, I really don't get it. However, I must read Article 2 which says: "Member States of this Pact undertake to take steps, in accordance with their constitutional procedure and the provisions of this Pact, to allow the adoption of such legal or other measures which can exercise the rights recognised by this pact and which have not yet entered into force". The same article stipulates that the right to appeal can be applied. There's no real complaint here. Mr. Secretary isn't here, I'm sorry, but he's worked in law enforcement for a long time and he's been an experienced lawyer and he'd have to know one thing: there's a big difference between the internal affairs authorities and the investigative judge. Why? It's about access, it's about the way you work. The internal affairs authorities are only interested in finding the culprit and their role is exhausted. They often work collectively, while each judge signs his decision, each of his decisions is subject to the use of the legal remedy, and every such decision has its own name and name, or one behind it. No judge likes his judgment to be lifted, because it has an effect on the value of his work. However, the internal affairs authorities are very different. That's why we often said that, until the person was brought to the investigative judge, there were all kinds of confessions, so there were countless people if it had to be admitted that they had written "The Upper Wreath." This is a cartoon. Believe me, there's truth. They're interested in confession and nothing else. When it comes to an investigative judge, it is very hard to believe, because very rarely it was happening, that investigative authorities, and I mean investigative judges, serve such methods that at least threaten not only freedom but also the dignity of the detainee, or the accused. Here, with these articles that I quoted, 15b, 15v and 15g, something else characteristic. The witness's freedom is deprived, the arrest is determined, and whoever determines it is the police. It can never end well for those reasons, if the police determine detention. This is about this bill, which will be spoken of more about the amendments, only with notice that the proposed solutions, in addition to the conflict with the international pact on civil and political rights, come seriously into collage with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was adopted in the Council of Europe in the distant 1950s, namely, since then. If this is about the next legislative proposal, which is the law amending the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia, I will remind you that the DSS has also made amendments, and I will not stick to it, as we will make any further remarks in explaining the amendments. Finally, if it is the laws on the public prosecutor's office and the High Council of Justice, there is no reluctance to make a remark that certainly stands, which is to go to the system of writing-deleting. I will remind you, in November 2001, on the DSS proposal, this same assembly adopted some solutions that I will list next. The deputy prosecutors under the bill had no continuity. Even then, the government opposed it, went to other solutions, and thought it was better. In 2002, when DSS MPs were not in this assembly, it was adopted a solution advocated by the government in 2001. What situation have we now come to? Now old solutions are being taken again and it leads to the fact that those solutions that we already had are being copied. The public prosecutor's law stemmed from the concept that the public prosecutor's office is a judicial and administrative body based on the principle of monocratism. Under the earlier law of 1991, the prosecution was one small, not quite, but still an independent branch of government, such as a court. The National Assembly then elected prosecutors on a proposal from the Republic Public Prosecutor, the Justice Committee proposed. There is so much characterism and inconsistency in the proposal of this law. With that in mind, I'd point to another one. There was quite a rush when we abolished the death penalty, for the simple reason why the international community asked us to do so. When tragic events took place in March of the month, the minister of justice allows himself to hint at the return of the death penalty. Such an absurd attempt was made to amortise the president of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly -- that there is only one statement, but of course it cannot happen now that we are in the Council of Europe. It's just proof that very important questions are being approached and that they're easily going over certain things. And lastly, if it is about amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, I would say only two things. It's rather unargumented from it, I'd say it's a pretty flat-rate assessment, that's not enough of a harsh criminal policy. In order to reach that conclusion, the criminal policy must also be compared with the criminal policy earlier, with the criminal policy of European countries, as well as in the countries of the region. That's not how it's done, and that's why the solutions are flat. That's what we'll talk about later. So I won't take any more time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28013	The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, a parliamentary group of the Serbian Unity Party. The Serbian Unity Party has four minutes to go. After him is the word of the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28014	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, last year's Party of Serbian Unity voted in favour of the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime. President of the Serbian Unity Party, Prof. Pelevic mentioned in his speech that there was a stenogram of what we were saying. If you had accepted our amendments then and accepted our discussion, many of the crimes in Serbia would not have happened lately. I'll remind you of just a few things, that I personally said that very small powers have the police under that law that you've passed, that the suspect can only keep four hours in the MUP, and it's known that if a major crime is committed, four hours from now, no investigation can be conducted, and if the participants in that area are more persons, they can't be detained, they can't be found in four hours. You didn't accept that. We came to the conclusion that the Serbian Unity Party was right. I'm going to say one more thing that I said back then, because in four minutes, I can quote the whole stenogram. "The Serbian Unity Party requires that the laws be strict, rigorous, that the powers of judges increase." If you had then accepted European standards in terms of protection and our amendment, there would be no kidnapping of judges in Serbia, Mr. Minister, no one should threaten a judge with a phone if he knew that he had been facing jail sentences for years. You didn't want to accept that. We also suggested that there be higher wages. Where does corruption occur? Corruption occurs in those institutions where low wages are low. You see what is meant by organized crime, to be back in time from a month ago, what happened and to be mentioned by judges, prosecutors, police, BIA, the military, although they are not the authorities of the Republic Assembly when it comes to the Yugoslav Army. So, even then, we suggested that there be higher salaries, greater powers and security of the person involved in this business. They were amendments to the Serbian Unity Party. That's how he fights organized crime, not just criticizing judges, and judges don't have great powers, they don't have protection, and we know what happened to those judges. Also, where's the organized crime base? The base is cafes and discotheques. The working hours of discotheques and cafes are from 23.00 hours to 05 hours. Now imagine our young people, when they get used to their own organism, those who study, going out at 23:00 a.m. for five and ten years, and coming home at 05 hours; and when they get used to living like that, what kind of parents they'll be, what kind of workers they'll be, will they be on time for work where they're employed? It is that there are local self-government ingenuity, but the government needs to make efforts, or this assembly, to make such a decision to reduce working time. Mr. Minister, I'm talking to you because you're the only representative. We say we don't know who the drug dealers are, and we know who the users are. If you see who the users are, you'll find out who the drug dealers are. It is known that Pomorava County is one of the largest districts, when it comes to drugs, organised crime, and all of Serbia knows it. We know how much real estate they have, what they have, but there's co-operation between local self-government and those faces. When all this time goes by, someone's gonna say how much they got to build so many buildings in Jagodina. These are people who don't have days of work, never had their final bill, who didn't have an aunt, uncle, father, mother to work abroad. We mentioned it and criticized it, but we had no one. Furthermore, we from the Serbian Unity Party fear that things that have been happening so far will happen in the coming period, that double arches will be used. Here, specifically, when it comes to parliamentary mandates. Parliamentary mandates have been stolen and it is now at the Constitutional Court of Serbia. There is a period at the Constitutional Court of Serbia, when the Court will say - those who stole your mandates are right, or those whose mandates are right. No, five months as it stands. You know very well that the mandates of the Democratic Party's MPs have been taken away in Turkey just because they don't respect the Party's discipline, and they wanted to do good for Turkey. Even you and the president of the Assembly gave consent, as the president of the Assembly's authority to discuss local elections, to have a supplementary account now, or to adopt the budget afterwards, and twice adopted a budget without a quorum. (Dejan Mihajlov, from the post: How can they adopt a budget without a quorum? ) Ask Mr. Minister. Now they have been authorised by the finance minister to be able to dispose of municipal money for the next six months, and there is no municipal decision. Therefore, the Serbian Unity Party is for harsh laws. We will support that if a few amendments are accepted. We want the laws to be implemented the way they're supposed to be implemented. Look what else is done. Now he's threatening the lustration of the judges. The lustration law has not yet come to the Assembly and judges must not judge by law, but as the executive authority wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28015	The word has a folk MP Petar Jojic, followed by Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28016	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has a number of objections to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. These remarks would come down to the following: first, this bill with its standards, which it foresees, is contrary to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which the Council of Europe adopted in 1950. The Serbian Radical Party will not support the vote of the bill on the grounds that the provisions of this law are contrary to the documents of the Council of Europe, including the more significant Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which the Council of Europe adopted in 1950. Secondly, Serbia-Montenegro's admission to the Council of Europe obliges our country to respect the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and their Freedoms, with these provisions having priority over the relative domestic regulations. Third, Serbia-Montenegro has committed to harmonising the rules of practice with European and international standards. Fourth, the Constitutional Charter gives priority to ratified international law contracts. Fifth, the provisions of this law are also contrary to the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1966. The Serbian Radical Party will not support the proposal for those reasons. In the first instance, our legislation should be harmonised with European legislation, i.e. continental, not Anglo-Saxon. Under the bill, a preventative detention institute is being introduced, which takes a very long time. This preventive detention does not guarantee or provide civil rights for detained persons. What's that all about? They don't have the right to defend themselves, to a lawyer, for a time to contact their family, and besides, a potential witness has the property of an incarcerated person, not a preemptive person. A preemptive detained person has the same treatment and the same status as an detained person. Where are these faces during a preventive stay? There aren't any special detention units in which these individuals could support that preventive detention during the time. According to my knowledge, these faces are now located and staying in prisons with regular, districtal and are under the same treatment as detained persons. Compared to European standards, which predict that each person has the right to be brought before the court as soon as possible, to have the right to be tried as soon as possible, not to have his detention extended to 24 hours, then to 78 hours, then to 15 days, plus 15 days, then 30 days of the police, plus 30 days of the police minister, so if the trial is brought to an end within two years. I am afraid that this way we do not disturb our legislation which is not exactly that it has not had certain good sides and was built in accordance with European and world standards. When it comes to criminal legislation, especially when a new Criminal Procedure Act has been adopted, our country has been the first in Europe to follow democratic methods and democratic standards towards suspects, accused and accused. So I think, in this case, by passing a shortcut to this set of laws, one can go to another extreme; what one would say - play, but also for the belt hit. I fear that in some cases there will be insufficient control and that too much authority will be given to some authorities, and that the Assembly and the court will not have sufficient opportunity to monitor and control the work of those authorities. The Serbian Radical Party is to curb crime. In any case, all the regulations that are in force today are so normised and penalties are provided for so that they are not minor penalties, are in line with European, continental law, parallel law. I'm afraid with this kind of increase in penalties, we're going to get out of the box and we're not going to be able to fit into the standards of the European Community and the Council of Europe. As far as the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned, there is also an objection here, as far as public prosecutors are no longer elected by the High Council of Justice but by the Government; secondly, there is an important difference between deputies and public prosecutors, as prosecutors are elected in one way by the Assembly, and deputy prosecutors are elected on a proposal from the government, and the deputy public prosecutors perform the same functions, as they replace the public prosecutor in the performance of the prosecutor's office. As for the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, in any case, the Serbian Radical Party is to withdraw weapons from those citizens who possess weapons without permission, as it can thus prevent many consequences, both caused by the past and known, which have been contributed by numerous conflicts and wars in the Balkans lately.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28017	The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, followed by the MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we adopted the agenda, we brought together several points into one set of legal laws. We're going to have a unique debate on very important points that are on the agenda today. Since important laws, which will apply to the practice of the MUP, prosecutors and judges, need to be opened up to debate each law in particular. The merger of these laws shows how much he cares about regulating the laws in the best way. It may have been necessary to make changes to the legislation, but not during the state of emergency, because in times of emergency, a good and democratic law cannot be made. It is obvious from the draft law that the proposal for this law and solutions did not involve experts from courts and other legal experts, but that they are party leaders who propose laws to the current situation. Such laws may take a short time, more like single-use laws. This is far from an independent judiciary. Instead of independent courts and independent prosecutors, the bill will give us party judges, party prosecutors, and it can be concluded that we are going back to that old saying - cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you. There will be no pledge to be tried legally, quickly and effectively. Justice Minister Mr. Batic has repeatedly presented himself as a consistent fighter for the free and independent judiciary, but must also understand that judges are not people of politics but professions. It is hard to conclude that the proposed law will achieve legal reform in Serbia. With the new organisation of the March 1st courts, the court system ceased to exist. Regulations have been adopted in a political settlement, without respecting the profession. The conflicts of the executive and judicial authorities lasted long, with the blackmail of judges to join individual parties, where new subjects or dependent judges are created. There is no independent judiciary, if there is political and media pressure on courts. Strengthening criminal policy will not solve the problem of crime. It is known that we in Europe are the country with the highest number of prison sentences imposed, while on the other hand we have the least fined fines. Perhaps it would be better if they were affirmed in court practice to impose fines. By tightening criminal policy, criminal law loses the purpose of its existence, as large prison sentences do not contribute to the prevention of crime. The confiscation of assets should not be tied to the length of the sentence imposed, but it should be said that only those assets acquired by the execution of a particular crime are always confiscated, but not by the property found by the perpetrator at the time the offence was committed. In addition, when determining the level of punishment, the basic principle of criminal law shall be waived, in order for the penalty to be determined. It is not sufficient to establish only the lower limit of penalties, especially in a situation where the authorities are seeking to apply the practice in which the collection of penalties will be allowed. Giveing the authority that detention can be extended without a judge's solution to 30 days is a classic violation of human rights and freedom. In addition, such an emergency solution is legalized and will last for as long as you are in power. Finally, all of this indicates that the proposing of these changes wanted to achieve his political interests, rather than make the law widely accepted, in line with the European process of reforming criminal legislation. In this way, our criminal legislation is further away from European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28019	The word is made by MP Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28020	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is little time and it is completely unnatural to discuss such a number of laws, especially laws that treat something called a criminal area, in a united debate. However, on the essence of these laws, which is the first one, which is the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime, it seems to me that he has rightly started speaking to the SPS MP Todorovic. He opened a question that actually the Ministry of Justice did not in this law open in the right way. In fact, when it comes to organised crime, we need to know that we have no legal definition of organised crime. We don't have all the elements of being a criminal, or this element of being, that will characterize what it is and what it is organized to call this kind of crime organized crime. Two things seem to have mixed up in this sort of thing, which is that there is organisational and organized crime. Organisational crime is exactly the crime that treats the proposing, and it manifests itself through organised access to criminal acts by the group. But nothing else out of it. Organized crime is something that is quite special and represents a solid and compact activity, characterized by organization, the pyramidal hierarchical relationship of perpetrators of the crime and, what is the essence, which is a commitment to power. He, because of relying on the centers of real political power, is also characterized by a great social danger. This element called power and power, which comes with power, must be fenced as an element of the entity's crime, or as the proposer imagined to incriminate this kind of crime. So, this link that is an integral part of the concept (now I speak in one theoretical sense) of organised crime is directed towards parliament, according to congregation bodies, government, ministries, police, judiciary, prosecution, customs, inspection bodies. The most common link with these centers of power is not the whole group, the whole gang, but only individuals, mostly from the top of the line. If I could be modest in defining, which was actually the duty of the Justice Ministry, it should be like this - organized crime is a type of property crime, which characterizes the existence of the structure and plan of a criminal organisation, which includes or carries out activities for continuing profit gains through the provision of illegal goods or services, the provision of monopoly in business activities, using the political influence of public authorities, influence on the media, public administration, justice, economy, which is provided by voluntary means or, for example, by means of. corruption. Well, then it could follow everything else, it could follow what's called processing, as it's popular today to say, or actually to complete the criminal procedure itself. I'm going to skip all of what my colleagues have been saying today, and as far as this law is concerned, it's a detention that doesn't exist in any criminal law; custody, as they call it preventive detention, violates all possible conventions that we have to respect as a country that has now entered the Council of Europe, especially this preventive detention, and makes it harder to keep it preventive, and then empowering the police minister, so that he can keep it, too, and then not have the right to appeal, and everything outside the judicial authorities. I'll leave that to the DSS deputies to explain, and I'd just like to pay attention to this other law, which is the law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the SRJ. First of all, is it quite problematic that this congregation can amend and supplement the SRJ Penal Code, which is called the Republic Assembly? Would it be more normal if this congregation had passed, even if it had been completely prescribed by law, but its bill of law? There is no reason to change the name of the Criminal Law, and so did counterpart Todorovic, because if we have a basic law, then there are probably some other laws, e.g. economic criminal law, international criminal law, urban criminal law; this name has existed for 50 years and there has been no need for it to change, unless it was intended to show any other orientation or direction in crime prevention policy. What really disgusts is this confiscation of property, and after 13 years -- it was abolished in 1990, for several reasons. The first reason is that this sanction is unfair and cannot be brought into any connection with the execution of a crime. In fact, punishment must be personal, or personal. She can't hit anyone outside the circle of perpetrators, and often she doesn't, because he's already sanctioned or in prison. Another reason is that it just justifys its essence by material retribution. The question arises - why is there a difference between the perpetrator of organised crime and all other types of crime, e.g. in the part of corruption, fraud and others, why wasn't it applied here, but it went completely selectively? And the last reason for its abolition was, in 1990, the absence of the need for its existence, because, in addition to other measures, we have a measure of confiscation of the property benefit acquired by a criminal act, which is completely satisfactory. So these provisions fully satisfy the need for those who have acquired the property benefit by executing all kinds of crimes, not just organised crime, to actually take that property away. And finally, we have something that doesn't fully stand from a criminal point of view, which is amendments and additions to the Serbian Criminal Law. It is said, in the reasons for the law being passed, that it is insufficiently a harsh criminal policy, that criminal policy must be used as a means of preventing serious crimes. It seems to me that by raising a prison sentence, we're going to come to an absurd moment, that a man's life won't be so long that we can put everyone in the norms. Raising punishment, especially for weapons, and for other crimes, is completely unwarranted. The review of the existing situation in our legislative criminal policy requires a far more serious approach than is expressed here. So, if you want to take this problem seriously, the government has to carry out a comprehensive analysis of criminal policy, meaning, both legislative and judicial, both in the country and in the environment. I have to say there's as much crime in Serbia as before, nothing less, nothing more. At this point, it is politically released to say in the media that there is more crime than before. However, crime in its quantum is in the same amount. If we make a comparison of our legislative criminal policy with European role models and our closest environment, we will find that it is one of the most severe in the world. In addition to Germany, we are the country with the most severe penalties, and the smallest judiciary. If we take Italian criminal law and punish them in a time frame, we will see that these penalties are much lower, although their crime is far more serious than ours. After all, if we reach for criminal law, if we reach for prison, we must say that criminal law is the last measure to protect a society from criminalizing itself. In fact, it was an ultim war, the final degree of state's defense against the threat that threatened. I have to say that criminal law and prison punishment are just one of the means of countering crime and that prison is a measure that gives bad results and is one of the last and worst stages of defense. Criminals aren't afraid of jail. He can't tell the difference between 20 and 40 years in his head, but he's afraid of getting arrested. When we come to the field of fear of being arrested, we come here to the field of preventive action of all those other organs that are before the court. That's where I think of the police, the D.A.'s office, etc. At the end of the day, I will end the team in order to leave time for my colleagues, it is not good for these laws to be written in a time of euphoria and to make statements that crime in Serbia has been destroyed. He can never be destroyed, he can only be reduced to a reasonable measure. Penalty policy is a more serious thing than passing laws like this at one time, I have to say, and I can't help thinking that the purpose of these laws isn't exactly daily-political.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28021	The word is a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth, followed by the messenger of the people, George Mamul.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28022	The unique debate on six draft laws, which only laycom can be made at first sight to represent the set, is the culmination of the disrespect of parliamentary democracy and the degradation of this National Assembly, and hence the citizens whose will we are here where we are. Thanks, however, to the goodwill of the president of the National Assembly and the congregation majority, we are granted the right to make amendments to all these draft laws. We in the SRS have made the greatest use of this right, of course, not only to propose an amendment for amendments, but to help these legislative proposals to offices comply with the Constitution and international law. You saw yesterday that the justice minister had only run through these legal proposals in 10 minutes, that is, over only four legislative proposals, and the government did not allow us to send a representative for two legislative proposals who would at least say a few things about the government's proposal. The truth is, even in this principle debate, I can't focus much on all these proposals, because just listing the titles of these laws would take half the time I can speak. It is clear that this indignation of the bill is the government's marketing move. On the one hand, representatives of the government are praised daily on television that after this implemented "Sabbe" action, we will be the only country in Europe without organised crime, and on the other hand, regulations are being regulated according to the government's claim to protect against organised crime. I wonder where the truth is here. Maybe you think you're applying these laws retroactively? I'm not surprised by this government or this congregation majority either. In any case, you have violated all human rights, the Constitution of Serbia and the fundamental postulates of international law. After all, you heard last night that although you have not yet adopted these bill proposals, your European friends, in whom you have accidentally come to power, are asking you to stop breaking human rights. You've heard that they demand that all arrested persons be contacted by a lawyer and by family members. Of course, you can't do that until you've removed the consequences of police pollution. Do you, gentlemen of the DOS, know that, according to the European Convention, the person is arrested in order to surrender to the competent judge most urgently to be tried, not to be held in custody for 15 days, 15 days, and 30 days, so whoever comes in can add another 30 days, up to 270 days in total. I wish the minister, who isn't here, would say where he met it in parallel. I would also like to explain where in parallel law he met what is happening these days, that the vice president and individual ministers of the Republic government, not stripping themselves from television screens, are taking the public to the details of the investigation, racing who knows more. They follow, they accuse, they judge. I really don't know what the authorities are for. Your story is that these laws function in the fight against organised crime falls into the water when you look at members of federal Penal Code from 124 to 136, which you didn't even mention here. You didn't have any intervention on them. Gentlemen, you haven't noticed that these members have also been threatened with fines. I, as well as anyone from the SRS, have nothing against tightening the fines, but not just to protect the personality of certain state officials. I'd rather sharpen sentences in articles 124 to 136. Criminal law of the SRJ, which refers to terrorism, diversion, sabotage, espionage, state-class secrecy, reference and transfer to the territory of the SRJ armed groups, weapons and ammunition, calls for a violent change of constitutional order, the cause of national, racial and religious hatred, discord or impatience, a violation of territorial sovereignty. Don't these members keep the highest values of the country? Unfortunately, because of the shortness of time, I can't talk anymore, although much can be said about these laws. It'll be about the amendments. All I'm saying is, in the end, if you adopt and when you adopt these laws, it doesn't matter whether you end the emergency or not, because under these laws it stays worse than this emergency. Just so you know that all these laws will be applied after you, at least temporarily, until others are brought in, in accordance with the Constitution and international law, so God help me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28023	The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28024	As the break is coming, I'd like to thank you all for still being here. I must say that I am very reserved under the proposed laws and that I do not share the government's optimism that these laws are good, although I am convinced that this is the maximum the government can offer at this time. First of all, when we look at the media situation and the content of the law, I would say that the election campaign has actually started and that we will have the elections in September of the month, given the pace of the trial that is scheduled. The second item of the agenda is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime. This law, as it is proposed, does not surprise me at all; I think this is better regulation of law and this is a school example. Even so, the Serbian government, which also carried flowers and wreaths to the grave of Aleksandar Rankovic, the Yugoslav Đeržinski and Serbian Berija, or Slobodan Penezic, on the holiday of the State Security Service, cannot offer anything better. The proposal is that we will take off from the Council of Europe faster than we entered. The Code of Criminal Procedure itself is very bad, then trying to fix it with this bill, it's said that the Charter has a void; that's true, but it can't be filled with this. So, elemental ignorance is at stake. You should have looked at the solutions in the British laws for Northern Ireland, in Spanish for Basque, in French for Corsica, to make a cocktail, not this kind of improvisation. What does that mean, that for particularly justified reasons, detention will be determined? What is the basis, where is it, how will it be challenged? Then, detention is the deprivement of freedom, not the restriction of freedom of movement. The MUP did what it could in this situation; it was issued an account: as soon as possible to submit such a bill; however, despite their efforts, solutions are very bad. It's not good when the MUP doesn't consult on the bill, but it's very bad if their hands are completely cut off to introduce their practice into the law. Of course, I'm fully aware that many of us wouldn't wear our heads on our shoulders if the police did everything in gloves, but it can't be done like this. When it comes to police detention, the European Court of Human Rights -- some of them have been throwing me, as much as it is worth that court, you'll see how much it's worth, -- has determined that the suspect can or must be brought to justice immediately, in one interpretation for up to six days, and over six days of police detention cannot. So they decide and it obliges more serious states than this one. Read the practice, judges in Belgrade's judiciary already get decisions from the European Court of Human Rights to start stalking; and you say - it's not worth five pairs. On the other hand, this package of laws is passed in a state of emergency. It was meant to short-circuit the state of emergency, so that they would be brought in on a regular basis, and this will leave a mark that was brought in in an emergency if everything was accepted. In addition, these laws will apply after an emergency, so that they will go on a regular basis, although for me in this society, it has been an emergency since I was born. Yugoslavia's criminal law goes below the level of the Ante Markovic reform; it has broken down the Criminal Law. In this parliament, those who continue his programme, at the time the law was amended in 1990, had the courage and strength to support those reforms. Now we return to the solution that Ante Markovic abolished. His Justice Minister Kambovski gave an excellent explanation for the time, and now confiscation is being introduced; how so, because the Charter says there is no confiscation of property without compensation, and confiscation is no compensation. No one has read the charter, the Charter has been in the first "Official List" of the new state since February 4th and says - property cannot be taken away without compensation. If there is a measure of security in criminal law of confiscation of cases that have been used to commit a crime and if there is an institute for confiscation of illegal supply, then I guess that's an obligation for all of us. Confiscation affects the whole family. Back in the days of Joseph Brozaprofessors of criminal law, they wrote in their textbooks against confiscation. A particularly difficult case is being introduced, and this is also the return to the 1971 and 1991 solutions; even here it is talking about the crime as a socially dangerous act, which is the Soviet concept of a crime and is already forgotten. Otherwise, when it comes to these powers of the police, just to remind you that in 2001 the DSS submitted 16 amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure in the Federal Parliament and none of them were accepted - none; so there would be no such situation with custody that it was respected. These are all prescribed solutions from the German and Italian law on criminal proceedings. The then federal interior minister Zivkovic told me -- you know what, not your amendments are bad, but we didn't pay attention, so they didn't pass. That's what he told me. DOS then consulted the professors of the Faculty of Law, Beljanski and Mr Grubač, and they said these amendments were bad. We failed our exam, and here you are, and now you have a situation like this. It is amazing that after four failed assassinations on the Serbian Prime Minister, nothing is being done. Is it possible that he should have been killed so that such laws, of course, as an idea, would come to the agenda? Four assassination attempts, the public knows nothing about it, no one is responsible in the government and then goes with the story, so now they need to find the responsible ones, and everyone else is responsible; no idea of improving the law since November last year has occurred to anyone, and in November, a part of the group, the one Maximovic, who said and told that they were preparing assassinations on people from the federal and republican governments, and since then nothing. The law on arms and ammunition needs to be adopted, with it not clear from that law whether or not weapons are allowed, since there is a legal void. As far as the Prosecution Act is concerned, I think it's better to keep the 2001 solutions, to keep the deputies in a permanent working relationship, and to limit the admission of such people to law enforcement; because, those who left, I don't say, one part of the prosecution and the court, they couldn't get into a lawyer's office, and they created quite a situation like this in the judiciary. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28025	This concludes the session in the morning and continues the session at 15.00 hours. The first registered speaker is Dragan Ljubojevic, followed by MP Rada Bajic with one minute of the SPS parliamentary group. The 46th session of the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will take place today on 9 April 2003, starting at 14.00 p.m., in the second floor hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has a folk MP Dragan Ljubojevic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Petar Cvetkovic, or Rade Bajic, who has one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fundamental question arises, what did the Proposer want with this package of laws that we are considering today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; these six laws cannot be settled in the same area, neither in the area of justice nor in the area of criminal law. I think the background of these changes and the addition of these six laws is that the state of emergency, introduced on March 12th, is legalized, that everything that was done after 12th of March to this day is put into the legal framework and that the conduct, primarily of the executive authorities, is introduced into the legal framework and that this behaviour continues in the next period. What is the basic feature of these legal projects, i.e. these amendments to the laws, is the increase, i.e. the tightening of criminal policy, the increase of criminal provisions in criminal law, in amendments and additions to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions, in amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the control of organised crime. We in the SRS can in principle agree that there is a need to tighten some penalties, even in one part and amendments, we insisted that even where you have increased penalties even more significantly and even more drastically, penalties, especially for official public figures, or for those people who work in state authorities. Therefore, for prosecutors, judges, public figures, or members of the MUP. What is interesting, and we heard in today's principle debate, is the president of the ruling coalition's parliamentary group that there is abuse, repression and harassment by members of the MUP, in all events ahead of us, and that this bill will prevent it. I doubt that personally. It is also one of the basic characteristics that determines the minimum penalty, i.e. the minimum penalty, and that the limit is not determined. So we get into a situation where we can give the judge a chance to cut off a sentence from one to 15, 20, 30, 40 years in prison or even more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28028	I'm warning you, time's over. You've exceeded 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28029	Two sentences. It is important to point out that the provisions of criminal law are not changed, that is to say, not to increase penalties in all areas, but only in a small number of areas, and not to increase the sanctioning of criminal acts related to terrorism, espionage and state secrets. Unfortunately, for a short period of time, I will explain more in detail when amendments come on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28030	The word has a People's MP, Rada Bajic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28031	Fellow MPs, it is certain that we are not the first country to pass an amendment to the law in a state of emergency. We had to learn that practice has shown that in these countries that have made more fundamental changes in criminal laws they have not shown good. There is a shadow over any law that is passed under such conditions, even when they are good, and especially the shadow over these laws, for the reason that in many provisions, many members violate the Constitution of Serbia or the Constitutional Charter, which we have recently adopted, or the Charter of Minority Rights and Rights of Citizens, international standards and international conventions that we have recently adopted in the Council of Europe. There's a lot to say, but there's no time. However, if someone who has committed a crime and sentenced to a sentence for more than four years is fully confiscated if they are subjected to organized crime, it is indeed unacceptable. What if his family were to do that property, what would she do when all the property was confiscated? Every well-intentioned and honest citizen is for the eradication of crime, to put an end to thieving, but the property should only be taken away when it is acquired by a criminal act, or by a criminal act. Take away the property that was inherited, which was acquired, taken away from the whole family and from the children, it is unacceptable. For example, to bring the witness in just because someone pointed out that he could give some information when it comes to organised crime, so he kept it for 24 hours or even a month, that the executive body would define it, not the court or the prosecution, that is, what violates all conventions known in international law or other laws. I don't have any more time at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28032	The word has a folk MP, Petar Cvetkovic, and the next one registered for the word is Dragan Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28033	Ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda, we have six laws joined together in a single debate. Five hours for six laws is too little time to say anything more significant. What we can do is point to basic problems, fundamental illegalities and inconsistencies of proposals made in these laws. Does it have any purpose to point out these illegalities and discrepancies with European and world norms, or conventions, when the ruling majority does not want to hear arguments? We came to one position at a time when arguments do not have any power, which directly means power, or force of vote, is the force of the majority to decide on all issues. This is also very dangerous for a gentleman who throws away and laughs. It's dangerous for them both for democracy and for the "reforms" they've been calling for all along. Starting with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, solutions are offered, at the very least, problematic and contrary to international conventions and rules. The main contrast is with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which was brought by the Council of Europe in 1950. With these bill proposals, especially according to this proposal, our country returns at a time before the adoption of this Convention. So, between the 50s and the 60s, last century. I guess that's reform. And, as Mr. Mamula said, the ruling majority and the government are making worse and worse bills of law. That's what we've been pointing to for a long time. With these current bill proposals, we'll be back in time for communism. I'll remind you, and I'll ask you, if you remember, and if you have the opportunity, check out those communist laws and compare them with these suggestions and try to find a difference. I'm asking a lot of colleagues who are experts, lawyers, and they're getting it. I'd like them to come out for this pay phone and deny us. They won't come out because they have no arguments. They think it's enough that there's no television transmission. It's unnecessary to point to anything. It's enough to press a button and bring solutions that are daily -- the political need of the ruling majority, but that puts the state and the people, all of us, in a very dangerous state and back decades. Gentlemen, don't cry. There'll be time for that. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950, I remind you, see Article 5 paragraph 1 point (c): "In the case of legal arrest or imprisonment of liberty, to bring a person before a competent judicial authority, on the grounds of reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed, or where it is rightly considered necessary, in order to warn the execution of a criminal offence or escape after its execution." Item 1. reads - each has the right to freedom and security of a person; no one can be deprived of liberty except in cases (one of these is under point c). I also remind you of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. To make proposals and solutions are in direct contrast to Article 9. The International Pact. We'll talk about this when we explain the amendments in more detail, given that there's not much time now. Also, the proposals to give this proposal to the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the national oran are contrary to the Serbia-Montenegro Constitutional Charter of the State Community. I'm not wasting my time, I'm just gonna point out it's an article. 3, 9 and 16. Command. I ask you, will you violate the Charter of Human Rights, which you have recently brought, in the first application, directly. Besides, why would that be strange, and you violated the constitutional charter of the Serbian-Montenegro state union the next day. That's what you say -- "beneficial" violation of the law, or "beneficial" violation of the Constitution. That would lead to that, or explain the political needs, I would say, the daily political needs. I can move to the next point very briefly. These are the bills of law in the domain of justice, as you like to say. I will remind, primarily the officials of the Democratic Party go to all televisions, give statements to all the media, where very problematic and very easy to give the interpretations of these proposals that are being made, which are completely contrary to what is necessary and what is required of these laws. Before the start of the analysis of these solutions, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Justice Minister, to remind him that the adoption of the law from the domain of the judiciary, or a set of laws within the framework of the judiciary, as you like to say. I will remind you, as early as November 2001, the Democratic Party of Serbia gave a set of laws concerning the judiciary, among other things, and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the High Council of Justice, which are now on the agenda for the change. You're on time, Mr. Minister. I remind you, the Serbian government has expressed negatively in its opinion on the draft laws issued by the Democratic Party of Serbia and opposed the renaming of deputy public prosecutors. It was one solution of perseverance. They were a permanent republican public prosecutor and public prosecutors, and deputies were subject to a renaming. I quote the government's opinion: "According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the duty of the public prosecutor is permanent, and the current Law on Public Prosecutor's Office has been prescribed that the deputy prosecutor's office is permanent. The bill provides for the deputy public prosecutor to be appointed for eight years. As the deputy is authorized to take any action authorized by the public prosecutor, it is discriminatory whether it should make a difference in the duration of their duties." The government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry had the right to give a negative opinion. But what does it matter? It is important that the amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since July 2002 (that is the time when MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia were expelled from parliament), have made a completely different solution than the renaming of the deputy prosecutor. The reform government, the "reformist" majority in the National Assembly, meeting with public prosecutors' demands, has changed the law so that the deputy public prosecutors become permanent and elected by the National Assembly again. It's okay, because the government thinks it's the right thing to do. Mr Batic then prepared an opinion for the government in which he says -- according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the public prosecutors are independent state bodies, but not independent as courts, since they are, in their nature, the authorities of the administration. We therefore believe that there is no reason why the proposal of public prosecutors and the appointment of their deputies should be entrusted to a special body, independent of the legislative and executive authorities. The procedure and the authorities of the election are of particular importance for the achievement of the principle of independence of the judicial authority i.e. Judge, until that principle does not apply to the public prosecutor's office. In April 2003, however, the government returned to the solutions from the original, that is, the proposal for a law given by the Democratic Party of Serbia. So, within that period, the government has passed the whole circle, tried some of the solutions of July 2001, and, according to the current proposal, it is returning to re-election of deputy public prosecutors. Was that necessary and what it said about the government, about the government's work or about the work of the competent ministry? It is not just the case with these laws - taking, giving, undermining the daily -- political need and relations of power or, why not, buying; but it leads to the only possible conclusion - that there is no strategy and that from case to case changes are made without any analysis and without any real need. It quickly sees mistakes, so it returns to previous solutions and so on. In amending the SRJ and Criminal Law of Serbia, I will point to only one provision. Mr. Minister said, you are witnessing this, that the sentence of prison could be 100 years. I remind Mr. Minister of Article 38(1). The criminal law of Yugoslavia, which is precise and clear - the prison sentence cannot be longer than 15 years. You didn't propose to amend that provision, so how do you propose to impose a sentence greater than 15 years without amending this provision of the Criminal Code? We'll have a series of objections, but in time, I'll have to break up here. Here's an answer to Mr. Secretary right away. The death penalty was replaced by a 40-year sentence in only two cases: in the case of serious murders (Article 47(2)). Criminal law of Serbia) and heavy robbery, that is, robbery theft (Article 169(2)). Serbia's criminal law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28034	The DSS parliamentary group has 3.5 minutes left, and two registered speakers. The word is made by MP Dragan Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28035	And it's too short a time for such a complex subject as organized crime. I would refer to what was happening, relating to point 2 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime. Given that I am a member of the Serbian Parliament's Security Committee, we have on several occasions recently had meetings on organised crime, but unfortunately all this is happening and this bill is happening after the murder of the Serbian prime minister, leaving an impression. Last year, however, at one point, the interior minister, who is not unfortunately there today, said there are 50 organised groups in the Republic of Serbia. It's not a small number. If the minister then found out, then he could reach out for all the legal means to contain the crime in some way or to frame itself in a more latent way, and later to combat organised crime. There was nothing, however. A few days ago, visiting a television show, the interior minister, among other things, said his hands were tied. Now the question is who his hands were tied from, in which way and whether it's possible that he didn't have the elements to reach for anything, to start all of it in some way to do it. It all started the moment the prime minister was killed, leaving one truly reliant impression that suddenly all the criminal groups in Serbia could be known, that they knew who they were and then reached out to some measures. If it could've been done then, it could've been done before. When asked if there was a certain amount of responsibility for everything that was not done and for what is now being done, due to the killing of the prime minister, the interior minister said he felt no small amount of responsibility for all that was done. At one of the meetings of the Security Committee, I asked the minister and his assistant who is responsible for the integrity of the Serbian prime minister's institution, who is the one who makes the bills to protect the integrity of Serbia's prime minister. They didn't know they were giving an answer. Mr. Sutanovac is here and can confirm. They did not respond by pointing to the fact that a state commission will be formed that has yet to determine who is responsible for the security of Serbia's prime minister. Is it possible that no one knew how to protect the Prime Minister and who should protect him? Asked if it might be a security-intelligence agency, they didn't give an answer. In the end, Serbian citizens should know who was actually in charge of protecting the prime minister and who should be responsible tomorrow for being so deprived of life. If time allows, I would mention the appearance of organised crime in Kosovo and Metohija. I point out precisely because of the fact that the current social and economic situation is extremely bad, that more than 800,000 people are unemployed or out of their jobs in Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, I also point to the Albanian population and that the overall rate of crime growth in this area has increased sharply. Since this is the area of the Republic of Serbia and the community of Serbia-Montenegro, it must be strictly accounted for because of the escalation of violence, due to the escalation of organised crime from the Kosovo and Metohija areas here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28036	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28037	I am just saying that the drug refinery from the famous town of Trnavac in southern Serbia has also moved to the area of Kosovo and Metohija and is now under the control of the Albanian drug mafia, and there is distribution throughout the Balkans and across Europe. It should now be stressed that the Albanian drug mafia currently holds all the strings in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28038	This concludes the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. Whether one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, who did not exercise that right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure, does he want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28039	In today's debate on amendments and additions to the set of laws on the prevention of organised crime, the public prosecutor's office, the SPS High Council of Justice, amendments and additions to the criminal laws of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, without prejudice to the need to fight crime, as this should be the common interest of all political parties and of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, showed all weaknesses, irregularities of the proposed solutions, their discrepancies with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and relevant domestic and international documents that treat the mentioned areas. questions. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, the provisions of Articles 15v and 15g, relating to two types of detention, the preventive detention and detention of persons suspected of committing a criminal offence, are directly contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the provisions of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, because they allow detention of persons without a court decision, and for a long period of time, when it comes to detention on grounds of suspicion, and without any right to appeal. It is also necessary to say that Article 15e of Position 3, which says: "After the indictment can take the longest two years", is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Article 16. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states: "The length of detention must be reduced to the shortest necessary time. The detention may take place after the decision of the first-degree court for a maximum period of three months from the day of detention. This deadline may be extended by a decision of the Supreme Court for another three months. If no charges are filed by the end of those deadlines, the accused shall be released." That member of the bill is not appropriate to the European plan either. We talked about it several times yesterday, and I don't want to repeat all these arrest cases -- what it means and how it's applied, who makes decisions, etc. The concept of the bill - an organized criminal group - needs to be accurately defined and to say what is meant by that term, because otherwise any crime that has the mark of complicity can be manipulated under that term. The bad side of the bill is also that it is not clear what is meant by the elements of organised crime. When it comes to amendments and additions to the criminal laws of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, I must say that the proponent, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is proposing a tightening of criminal policy, which will certainly not solve the problem of crime in itself. With these amendments to criminal legislation, we return to the old solutions, which Serbia left in 1990, so that our criminal legislation will certainly be the most rigid in Europe, excluding perhaps only Albania, at the moment we were admitted to the Council of Europe. The provisions on the confiscation of assets are inaccurate. The confiscation of assets should not be bound by the length of the sentence imposed, but should be made clear that only those assets acquired by the execution of a particular criminal offence, not by the property found by the perpetrator at the time of the execution of the crime, or at the time of the sentence. In this regard, it should be pointed out that SRJ’s criminal law in due time provided for the confiscation of property for certain criminal offences, which are as such deleted by Article 23. The Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law in 1990, which was also the product of the then democratisation of society. In addition, the current Constitution does not allow such punishment to be imposed. It should be borne in mind that there are general provisions of the Criminal Code, which stipulate the obligation that all property acquired by a criminal act must be taken away. In some foreign countries and, of course, the laws they pass, when it comes to confiscation, its subject may only be property acquired by committing a crime. It should be borne in mind that confiscation is an anachron and an unjust punishment, because the entire property is taken away, even the property that was obtained legally, which is not the subject of a criminal offence. It's not the first time that the government has selectively applied justice and justice, directed, of course, towards non-eminents. The question to the government's representative, although objectively Mr Batic has nothing to do with it, but since there are no other representatives of the government here, I have to repeat something that has been asked by my colleague Zoran Angelkovic - were the people accused of participating in the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's president under the extraprofit law, since they owned apparently very representative business and housing facilities of several thousand square meters, and were these people accused of doing this crime subject to this law? Since we have a situation that some people have paid because of several square meters of extra living space to the Serbian Republic budget, it would be interesting to hear whether those accused of the most serious crimes were also subject to the law? There is just one more thing about criminal laws: the wording of Article 46 relating to a particularly difficult case, in which it stands "which has led to particularly serious consequences or has been done under other particularly difficult circumstances" is inaccurate, which is contrary to the principles of criminal law and opens up a wide scope for abuse, where it is not seen who appreciates that there have been particularly difficult consequences, or whether the work has been done under other particularly difficult circumstances. We believe that such a formalized provision is inappropriate, that, on the surface, I must say irresponsibly, and probably in haste came to this job, and this best shows part of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law SRJ, from Articles 114 and beyond. These proposals are pointless because the promoter obviously forgot that we do not have the Constitution of the SRJ, but rather the Constitutional Charter, and in some provisions an object that is protected does not exist. So neither does the president of the SRJ, the president of the Federal Assembly, the president of the federal government, etc. Criminal law analogy is not allowed, and the promoter should know that. It would be more logical if an amendment had been submitted, to replace the SRJ wherever it stands with the words "the state union of Serbia-Montenegro". This is where the proposer apparently decided to protect the non-existent subject. In addition, he completely forgot some of the provisions of the Penal Code that had to be subject to an amendment, such as Article 157, which speaks of a violation of the reputation of the former SRJ, which now no longer exists. There are provisions of the proposed laws already contained in the adopted laws, so questions are raised whether these members were necessary at all? There are other examples that confirm that the amendments to these laws did not occur in a professional, thoughtful way. Finally, a few more words about the public prosecutor's laws and the High Council of Justice. The proposed amendments and additions significantly undermine the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters. In that division, the prosecution had its own measure of independence. Proposed changes are carried out by the prosecution from the judicial system, its independence is denied, the prosecution becomes an authority of the administration and is fully under the control of the executive authority. The government proposes a public prosecutor elected by the National Assembly; the government appoints deputy prosecutors, proposed by the minister. In itself, that's what he says best. When moving to the concrete proposed law, Articles 43, 56, 57, 58, and all others, the absolute supremacy of the government is shown and, of course, the derrogation of this principle. Since these things will also be discussed through the interpretation of the amendments, allow me to finally repeat the SPS's position once more in relation to the proposed laws. The SPS will not support the proposed laws, because we believe that these emergency measures are being passed regularly, given the appropriate legal form, and thus prolonging the state of emergency. I believe that these draft laws and provisions are contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, the Convention on Human Rights and the Practices of the European Court of Human Rights, that we return to the 1990s solutions, which in itself speaks enough, such as tightening the penalties and confiscation of property, in a selective way, that completely the courts are exempt from the whole story of prisoner detention. Then, that the provisions are broad and inaccurate, that they are subject to different interpretations and, therefore, to selective application. The more we have proved these two days that the provisions are bad, anachrons, contrary to domestic and international documents, so much more DOS representatives, even more in the media than here in the Assembly, have proved us wrong and confirmed one of Murphy's laws, that if your opinion disagrees with the facts, so much worse by the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28040	There are no more representatives of the parliamentary groups declared for the word. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Amending, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutory, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Before we continue to work on the 2nd item of the agenda, with discussion in particular, the Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic, said.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28041	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the debate in the principle of a set of proposed laws, just to mention a few details. The proposed laws are, above all, in the post of fighting organised crime. Those who have forgotten, I must remind them that, less than a month ago, a legitimate elected and first democratic president of the Serbian government was killed after 60 years. I must remind myself that the investigation that was subsequently launched showed that Serbia was, unfortunately, a completely criminalised state, that crime had penetrated all the pores of society, that Serbia was increasingly like a Balkan banana republic and that what was started absolutely in the interests of the state and in the interests of the citizens. Organized crime is the greatest monster of modern humanity. I can't help but wonder that here the most globular human rights fighters were those whose parties were in power, the masters of life and death, and committed the most monstrous crimes in this area in the last 60 years. It's a kind of paradox. But the state has to defend itself. What is being done, the state of Serbia does because it is in a state of necessary defence. This isn't about the government. Governments are leaving and coming, ministerial chairs are changing. This is about the survival of Serbia, the future, the hope and perspective of its citizens, primarily of young generations. Those who do not know, and it is a shame that this is not transmitted, let them ask the citizens what they think of human freedoms and rights violations. This set of laws is precisely a function of protecting the freedom and rights of 99% of the country's citizens. It may suspend and restrict the freedoms and rights of one percent, a few dozen or several hundred criminals in this country. They'll be suspended all the time. So, the fight against organised crime is something that must be a priority, which must be a goal for which every government and government will stand up for and fight if it wants good for Serbia. These laws are, more or less, time-limited. The fact is, we need to access full codification of criminal law. We had the Criminal Law at federal level, so we had the Law on Criminal Procedure at federal level, so we had the Republic Criminal Law, so we made a law on the organisation of state bodies in the repression of organised crime. In many other laws, you have criminal and legal provisions. We must fully codify criminal law. It's not a job that can be done in a few days or a few weeks, and this job should not be done by the Ministry of Justice or the Government, but by the most competent people and the best experts in this area in this country. I'll tell you, to remove all concerns, that on the Justice Committee, as I've been told, an amendment has been adopted that the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities in the fight against organised crime will be reviewed after 90 days. No one here wants to defy Europe or violate any European standards. It is these laws that rest on European experience. See what many of the most democratic and civilized countries of Europe and the world have done in the fight against organised crime. They applied much more rigorous, more brutal, more powerful means than those used today. I have already said, the greatest attention and the greatest controversy have sparked provisions under the Law on the Organisation of State Authorities in the fight against organised crime, on the retention of the person for 30 days, or 60 days. As someone who deals with law, I have to point out that retaining by the M.O.P. is something else from the detention institute. Detention is, then, a administrative measure and rests on the so-called so-called. Basically doubtful. The detention is a judicial measure and rests on reasonable suspicion. Of course, I won't keep your attention by explaining what is what, because not all MPs have to be experts in legal theory and practice, but I also want to say responsibly that, with regard to international humanitarian organisations, various institutions, there is no brutal accounting in prison institutions, in prison, in detention. There's absolutely nothing that's a violation of some elemental existence and elemental rights. Whether someone real and normal, given the scope of organized crime, is honest and honest enough to think that it can be discovered and lit up in 48 hours or three days. He just can't. These are extorted solutions and something that is in the role of the necessary defence of the Serbian state against crime that has spread everywhere. We have to admit that an ambience was created, in a system of disturbed values, which affected the plot that was made with an attempt at a coup over the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic. There can't be so many factors involved. It is also clear to birds on the border that it is not just a criminal act and that it is not something that is the decision of one or a few criminals. It's obviously a conspiracy with various shorts. It will be seen how far the investigation will go and the inspirers and the financiers and the organizers and the direct perpetrators will be lit up. So that's something that's necessary. This is not directed against any individual in particular and this is not a hack or haranga against any political party. That's what I'm responsible for. A few more details. In addition to being detained, which is the most eye-stealing confiscation of property. This is a mild measure of how many European countries propose legislation in the fight against organised crime. Visit all cities in Serbia, ask people around who made fairies and cities, castles; these are the biggest criminals, the biggest local criminals, kidnappers, killers, drug dealers, they did it. Does anyone have to explain now that these people with bloody hands shouldn't be taken away? It will also be taken away for various social institutions, for young people, for children, for people who need it, because while people in Serbia, for decades or more, lived on the edge of existence, while their children were eager for both hamburgers and ice creams, thugs, criminals had the best houses, best cars, best suits, discotheques, ergeles, radio stations, television stations, their newspapers and their leaves. Now, that's going to get in the way from now on, and this is going to be a major emergency for criminals in Serbia forever. There was controversy over cumulative penalties, and you know that we had to accept European standards, that there was no more death penalty in Europe. Intimately, I might be sorry she's gone, too. We are a geographical part of Europe, but as we have lived and what we have done, it seems to me that we have been far from Europe. O Kay, we want to go to Europe, we have to accept its standards and we have abolished the death penalty. It seems to me that most MPs in this House voted against abolishing the death penalty. The fact is that it's not the creation of some non-European countries; in America, in a large number of American states you have a death sentence; and if I tell you that George Bush, when he was governor, refused pardons in all 39 cases when he was asked for pardons, then it's a sign that the United States has a death penalty and that they execute it. About 90 death sentences were committed last year. It's a similar situation, and it's much bigger in Japan. But Europe is Europe, there is no death penalty in Europe, and then we have to anticipate cumulative punishments, because they have a preventive fact, those criminals discourage, demoralize them, and like this, with little punishments, and even with the procedures that have been marathoning, there was simply no fear of punishment and no fear of... If you could just shut up, learn something, it would be nice, you've been here recently, remember something and behave a little. (He speaks to the MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, who keeps throwing away. ) Therefore, that is why cumulative penalties have been imposed. It's about the retroactivity of the law. I have to say about the interpretation that the acts that were carried out before the law on amendments and additions to the criminal law, and the old law provided for the death penalty, we introduced that provision into the law, although there was also a legal position of the Supreme Court's criminal department that it was a prison sentence of 40 years, but there was an error of interpretation in the Ibar Highway case, so they said -- then there was a maximum time sentence of 15 years and since there was no death penalty, then the maximum sentence was 15 years. That's the wrong legal understanding. So, from the death penalty, every time sentence, including a 150-year sentence, but since our maximum time sentence is 40 years, then precisely because of a minor punishment, which is a protection from retroactiveness, was introduced into the law of a provision that where there was once a death sentence would be 40 years. Why? Because we discovered the perpetrators of the most monstrous crimes - the Ibar highway, the crime in Strpci, the murder of Ivan Stambolic, and in a few days the case of Curuvija will be lit up. What would happen if we were to interpret the law so arbitrarily and in a caratically? It would turn out that whoever shot Ivan Stambolic in the back of the head or who killed him, I don't know how many dozen people from the train in Strpci, the chief executive, can get 15 years, and his assistants or accomplices 10, 8 or 7 years, and that's not justice. In order to avoid arbitration in court proceedings, we have introduced into the law this provision explaining how punishment will be applied. The stricter punishment for a particular crime is perfectly appropriate and does not stand for these interpretations so that nothing can be achieved. You know why? Gentlemen, you've had one piece that's been omassified, which is genocide according to future generations -- production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs and allowing the use of intoxicating drugs. For this first, prison sentences were threatened from one to 10 years, but in the process when such punishment was threatened, most sentences were suspended. I have here a list of the faces that were the main drug dealers, the top drug dealers of the Zemun clan. Do you know what kind of punishments they've been given for 200, 300 or 400 grams of heroin? Like this: six months-conditional for two years; five months -- conditional on two years; ten months -- conditional on five years. So, we have to get on the road and a threatened prison sentence of at least five years, no more parole, we've accepted the amendment that possession of drugs -- if they find you under a gram of heroin, god damn it for personal use -- is a felony. It is a message to all future generations, so there is no hack here, no reckoning, this is just a desire for justice in Serbia, even if the world fails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28042	I thank the Minister of Justice. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state-run organese in the subsidisation of the organized criminal (separation) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, together Đorđe Mamula, Dragan Lazić and Dragan Jočić, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Petar Jojic, Ljubisa Maravic, Milan Jankovic, Živodarka Dacin, Hranislav Perić, Djordje Mamula and together Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović, Mirko Rosic and Milos Lučić, and the Committee for Justice and Administration. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Legislative Committee have rejected amendments by MP George Mamula to Articles 2 and 3 so that these amendments will not be discussed. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, and since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search under which this bill has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28043	Dear Mrs Micic, honourable fellow Members, on the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest that the debate in the details of points 2 to 7 take up to three minutes at most. I ask the Assembly to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28044	I would like to vote on a proposal from the People's Parliament to hold the debate in detail for three minutes, according to points 2 to 7. First I have to put the motion to a vote. For 93, against 79, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal of the MP Sinisha Mitrovica. Are you looking for the Rules of Procedure? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although such an unscrupulous proposal by a MP who has never quite come out for this pay phone to explain any amendment, nor to support any government proposal, has failed, I must say that this member of the Rules of Procedure, 137, to which Mr Sinisa Mitrovic is constantly called, may be able to use on these occasions, but before the debate begins. We've already started the debate and he couldn't even get out for this pay phone. He's a little late at the beginning. We have to read Article 137, because at least Mr. Mitrovica should have done it when he came out for a pay phone, it doesn't count in time, and 30 seconds is enough for him to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28046	Please read the article out loud.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28047	"The debate is being held in particular by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed by the introduction of new provisions, and can take part in the debate," so now all those who are listed, "if the Government is not a proposing, and at one time, for a maximum period of five minutes". It's something that's meant to be. Where are you going less than five minutes, folks? You want us not to go out for this pay phone at all? I know you will, but we want to go out, so we write amendments, explain, delay the debate. [[Sagar.]] You have to listen to us, if you don't want to listen to us, get out, and we're still talking. It's important for us to have everything written here, and whether you're listening or not, it's the same for you, it doesn't touch your brain anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28048	Since you have read it, I hope you understand this Rule of Procedure, since it says that the debate actually begins when the debate begins on the members to which the amendments have been submitted. So there's no injury, because we haven't started the amendment debate yet. The second part says, five minutes tops, which means it leaves an alternative that it can be shorter. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. The First Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28049	Organized crime within the meaning of this law is the conduct of crimes by an organised criminal group, i.e. other organised groups or its members, for which the sentence of four years or more severe punishment is provided. The Law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure states in a completely different way what organized crime is. This first member gives his definition, so there are two different definitions, so it is not clear which one will apply, since this article is not excluded from that member of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure which speaks of what organised crime is. On the other hand, please, Mr. Minister, explain what this means -- a four-year sentence or a harder sentence. For which act is the sentence of four years, precisely, isn't it better to solve someone else? I think this is very vague. It's probably that the mustra was taken from the International Convention on Organized Crime, but, you know, there can't be a game here. Or it'll be well defined to be well applied, so you can't go on principle and give what you give.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28050	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28051	The proposal was intended to rewrite precisely the wording of the Convention, which is a political act rather than a legal act. It was supposed to be a guide to standardize organised crime, or define itself. It has been misdefined and it was necessary to legally standardise and define organised crime, not literally translate a political formula from a convention that is political and which should serve as the most general definition; it should be normised by criminal law or by some other law that suppresses organised crime. This formulation should be specified, defined differently, and some other features of organized crime that we talked about. In particular, it is an important part of organised crime - with the authority - legislative, executive, judicial, or other parts of the government, the prosecution, the administration; it is something that is, of course, an element of organised crime. Otherwise, we have another form of crime that isn't organized, but an organisational form or an organized group that doesn't act and has no contact with power, but it's a group that's beyond that. Organized crime certainly has contact with power based on volunteering or corruption or blackmail, but there is certainly contact with power. It is therefore important to specify this definition, in order to be more precise, after that, to establish criminal offences. This provision, which was referred to by George Mamula - four years or more severe punishment - needs to be specified for which segments are more severe punishment, for which forms are four years. It's just that as little as possible can be left to the judges and their evaluations. We see, Mr. Batic listed what happens when judges are left with a lot of room to decide, and then a four-month sentence or two years probation, or five months, or ten months, then five years probation. That's why it takes the possibility of judicial volunteering to the least possible extent, so it doesn't happen, at least to the perpetrator of such serious crimes, what we've had a chance to see. There were a lot of returnees, a lot of acquittals, conditional judgments, precisely because of vague definitions. Our intention is just to fix the text of this bill, to avoid what we're talking about. This should be accepted as a useful suggestion and incorporated into this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28052	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Maravić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28053	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, in line with the general tendency to regulate justice against organised crime and terrorism, and as we MPs from the territory of the southern Serbian province of Metohija and Kosovo know best, I wanted to make my contribution on behalf of the SPS, with the hope that this amendment will be accepted. In principle, I believe that our legal system should move within other countries that have faced this evil long before us. First of all, I mean experiences that come from Italy, France, Germany, but also from the United States. So, as our people like to say, we should not invent hot water, but use those experiences and experiences of those who have achieved unquestionable successes in this long before us, listening to the views of the Council of Europe that we have just received. In accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the jurisdiction and organisation of state bodies in the prevention of organised crime states that organised crime within the meaning of this law constitutes the conduct of criminal acts by an organised criminal group, i.e. other organised groups or its members for which the sentence of imprisonment of four years or more severe punishment is intended. My proposal for an amendment to Article 1(2) would be to amend it and to read: "Organised crime, within the meaning of this law, is to carry out the following crimes by an organised criminal group, when an element of organised crime is present: against constitutional organisation and security of the state; against humanity and international law; counterfeiting and money laundering, unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicated drugs, illicit arms trafficking, ammunition or explosives, human trafficking, robbery, robbery, bribery, bribery, extortion, kidnapping and other crimes for which, as the least threatened sentence of at least five years. "I have proposed in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia this definition, because the definition of organised crime with tax-listing forms of crime is a better solution, because it prevents abuses that can arise in the application of the law due to the incorrect definition of this concept, given in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28054	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Dragan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28055	Ladies and gentlemen, with respect to all intents and purposes to "swallow valves" organized crime, which exists in all countries, and has existed in all previous regimes, more or less, and in accordance with what I have stated, which is present in scientific theories on organised crime, narrow and wider definition of organised crime, I am sorry that the distinguished Mr. Minister was not there during the principle debate, when I detailed all the provisions that define organised crime in a narrow and wider way. The narrower way was envisaged, to some extent, in the existing text of the Law on the Organisation of the Authority's Jurisdiction of Organized Crime and in scientific theory, there is a predominant view that, when defining organised crime, this narrow method should be applied. Unfortunately, the proposed amendments and additions to this law, which is now on the agenda, have suggested this broader way of defining organised crime, and it is said that organised crime within the meaning of this law is to be committed by an organised criminal group, i.e. other organised criminal groups or its members, for which the four-year sentence is intended or more severe punishment. This is about the broad definition of organised crime that allows for the very arbitration of those who need to assess whether or not organised crime is in a specific case. I'm going to remind you of the so-called "organized crime definition" that contains specifics that define organised crime with four specifics. First, the existence of an organised criminal group; secondly, the existence of a criminalised corporation; thirdly, the use of violence; and fourthly, what is most important in political theory and crime theory, it is the link between the criminal group and the bearers of political execution, judicial, legislative, or any other government. I appeal to the opinions of renowned lawyers and crime professors; it is true that those who call for organised crime to exist, leaving out the fact that any crime reflects the environment in which it occurs, ignores the fact that the organiser is a crime in the fourth characteristic just contained in the connection of organised crime with current authorities, executives, police executives and courts, or others. It is therefore our proposal to delete Article 1, to remain a formula for the definition of organised crime that is known in the current text of the Law. The fact is that the existing text of the Law is much better than that contained in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law, and therefore we support the position to define organised crime at least in this existing way, which says, citing four elements of organised crime, that it is: 1. action against the constitutional arrangement or security of the state; 2. against humanity and international law; 3. counterfeiting and money laundering, then unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs, illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition or explosives, trafficking in human beings, robbery, theft, giving and receiving bribes, extortion and kidnapping; 4. other crimes for which the minimum penalty of imprisonment is limited for five years. The fourth point mentions the threatened sentence as one of the elements of organised crime, which is much better than the envisaged formulation - the prison sentence of four years; for that reason, I hope you will have an understanding of the above arguments and will accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28056	The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28057	I would like to warn the amendment's proposings about one detail. This detail is that the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, which introduces the new chapter 19a, which is called "Special Provisions on the Procedure for the Crimes of Organized Crime". Therefore, certain observations we have heard from the MPs who have explained the amendments are completely absorbed in the cited provision of Article 504a. The law on criminal proceedings, which has not been deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28058	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? If no one wants a word, the next amendment to Article 1 was brought together by the MPs: Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović, Mirko Rosic and Milos Lučić. The Committee for Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, with a legal technical editorial that reads - after the word "prisonment of" the word "at least" is added and after the word "year", the point is placed, and the words are deleted until the end of the line, with which the applicants of the amendment agreed. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there a need to make a proposal? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28059	In this amendment, we asked that the words "or its members" be deleted from Article 1, from Article 1, Article 1, because by logic these words do not belong in this text, because if organised crime is a criminal offence by a criminal group and criminal responsibility implies the responsibility of a natural person, then, in particular, to quote "their members" does not mean anything, because it is already contained in the previous terms contained in this article. I think the amendment is a good reason to point out some other things. We have a real problem defining what organized crime is. I express my personal position that no amendment nor this proposed proposal contains all that we would all want to be in the definition of organised crime. I'm afraid the members of 1st and 2nd will. Bills of laws create confusion, create a problem for those people who need to apply this law. We are in the field of defining organised crime, and we will agree that this is about a way of committing a crime or a machine to commit various crimes. It should somehow not be sanctioned, but described, defined so that we can recognize where there is an organized group. We'll all agree that the group can make up three or more people who consciously belong to an informal organization, machines for committing crimes. There's another problem going on right now. We already have something similar in federal criminal law. Usually these crimes begin with words of association, agreement, criminal association, but that's something else. It's not organized crime. Organized crime requires a complete act, and these three associations punish the agreement and criminal association, for the attempt and act of creating a profiled group to commit some criminal acts. What should we have in mind for this formulation, first of all, in Articles 1 and 2 of the proposal? The courts will have problems applying this from the point of view of the 22-26nd Federal Criminal Code. We're talking about complicity in criminal acts, inciting, assisting, and organising a criminal association. If a criterion of three or more persons is applied, of course, if it is an act that has been prescribed for more than four years in prison, as stated in the proposal, then we can come to a situation where a classic instigator, a co-executor, a helper, the one who hides unconsciously come into the situation to be struck by this law, where some completely different norms are applied in lighting, investigation, etc., and what is essentially not an organised crime, because it is something that happened, a single crime, perhaps even a controversial, perhaps only, and this bill does not make a clear limit, a clear difference. We need a definition of organized crime for special powers, not sanctions. However, because of sanctions, especially because of the difficult form of committing a criminal offence, or because of multiple returns, or because of circumstances that indicate a cruel manner, where a provision on tightening sanctions can be applied. I believe that the members of 1st and 2nd. The bill of law should go to the general part of the Criminal Code, where virtually regulates the way in which these and other crimes are committed, specific crimes. He should be precise, he must not rely solely on certain groups of criminal acts. Someone just said-- property works. No, because if we apply what the government has suggested we will come into a situation so that we can arrest the entire order, because the defamation act in paragraph 3 has been imposed for five years in prison, where the editor-in-chief is the editor-in-chief, the journalist who wrote the text is the perpetrator, the one who did something else there can also be undermined under this formulated Article 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. I don't think this formulation fits, and by the intervention we've proposed this amendment we just wanted to logically sort things out, because if the group is then of course a member of the group is responding, because criminal responsibility is always a personal responsibility of a natural person.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28060	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović, Mirko Rosic and Milos Lucic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration adopted an amendment with a legal-technical regulation, which was agreed by the applicants of the amendments. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime. Article 2 is amended and reads: "Elements of organised crime, within the meaning of this law, exist when there are elements of an act of association for the conduct of crimes committed by the General Criminal Code, an agreement for the execution of a criminal act determined by the General Criminal Law or a criminal association of a specified criminal law of the Republic of Serbia". It is more cellular to define organised crime under the reasons contained in the General Criminal Law and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia (criminal crimes, agreement to commit crimes or criminal association) than the definition of an organised criminal group given in the bill of law. This definition provides a space for too wide and inaccurate interpretation that in the application of the law can lead to great abuses of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28062	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28063	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our amendment lies in a very broad definition of organised crime group, which is in the proposal for amending and supplementing the Law, so that under the organized criminal group set out in Section 2 of this Act, a group of three or more persons who exist for a certain period of time and act unanimously in order to carry out one or more of the crimes for which the sentence of imprisonment is intended for four years or more, for the purpose of obtaining indirect or direct financial or other material benefits. The second organised group referred to in Article 2 of this Act implies a group which is not educated in order to directly commit crimes, nor has such a developed organisational structure, defined roles and continuity of membership of its members, but is in the function of organised crime. Such a formulation, as I have already stated in the interpretation of our amendment to Article 1 of this Law, really gives too broad authority to the arbitration of one who assesses what an organized criminal group is and under this definition does not contain all four elements that are necessary for defining organised crime in parallel law. So, I'm going to remind you again of the fourth and most important condition, which is that organized crime does not exist, and whoever calls for organised crime must bear in mind that this organized crime is directly related to the representatives of the government. So I'll just remind you of one example. In Russia, anti-organised crime fighters have often called for the relics of the previous communist system. Unfortunately, they also resorted to the fact that crime is a reflection of the society in which it appears. It can't be just a reflection of that society that was previously in the previous social or political order, but it's a reflection of this society, which is now current and which is now being developed, which is now living. Therefore, the essence of our amendment is that the definition of organised crime is not only related to the existence of an organised criminal group, but also to the number of elements of organised crime in parallel law so that we do not come to the situation that, for example, Pera, Mika and Zika, who stood in one corner and agreed to commit some crimes, can be declared an organised criminal group, so that they can be hit by major repressions provided for in this law, in terms of police detention, in respect of the withdrawal of rights guaranteed by European and other international norms. That is why we have suggested that it is more cellular to define organised crime under reasons, if not better, then at least those contained in the General Criminal Law and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. We have used this formula on the General Criminal Code, although it is not a general law, it is a criminal law of the SRJ, which is related to the problem of adopting a single criminal law; all lawyers know very well that we will have and how much work to settle it, which no one else will be able to do to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but perhaps in a slightly different composition and coercion than this. So it's better to use the formula that these are criminal acts, an agreement to commit crimes, or a criminal association, than the definition provided for by the definition of organised crime group, given in the bill. I must remind myself that, for example, in Slovenia, a much better solution is to the definition of the organised criminal group itself, which could have been applied here, that there was a good will and that there was no predicting, and that this definition of organised criminal group could suggest, a certain abuse of this kind of overarching of police authorities in the arrest, more specifically, detention, in determining police detention. If there were good will and good solutions had been found in parallel law, it could be seen that it was regulated in the anti-mafia set of laws of Italy itself, which has far greater problems with organised crime than it is in our country. However, the essence of our amendment, in order not to exceed the time, is that, if a better definition is not found, even though it uses the formulation contained in the SRJ Criminal Law, still valid, and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28064	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, not to participate in the debate, but rather a proposal by the Rules of Procedure or a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28065	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'd be begging, based on Article 82. Rules of Procedure, to determine whether there is a quorum for the work of this assembly. We know that at 6:00 a.m., the Star - Partizan basketball game, probably the MPs went to that game.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28066	People's MP, the Rules of Procedure obliges you not to express the facts of other persons' private lives. You cannot have any information about the motives, wishes and preferences of other MPs, so I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28067	Madam Chairman, I'm talking to my colleagues, my MPs, and they told me they were going to the game. I am merely informing you, and I would ask you that in the future, pursuant to Article 94, you are keeping an eye on what you are obliged to do, whether there are enough MPs in this room for us to continue our work. That's why I'm asking you to establish the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28068	I remind you of the obligation to quote both the member and the position, but it is understood that the article is Article 82(4), so I ask you to establish a quorum, at the request of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go. I remind Members of the second, third and fourth lines of the obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure and the obligation to register, simply because of the general respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I fully agree with. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The Secretary of the National Assembly informed me that Gordani Pop-Lazic, during today's day, was given two warnings, and that the disciplinary measure, which is pronounced for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was expressed in connection with its presentation regarding the requirement for the establishment of quorum for the National Assembly, was converted to a measure of confiscation of words, and according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that is the following; and, the measure of confiscation of words does not apply to the right of the People's MP to the replica in the subsequent course of the sitting, as referred to in Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We're continuing our work. Is anyone else answering for the amendment to Article 2, submitted by MP Milan Jankovic? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28069	The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, suggested that, in the position of Article 2(2) of this law, instead of "in the function of organised crime", the words "have been committed in its organisation by criminal acts as referred to in Article 1(2) of this Law". What this means is a proposed legal solution, a government solution, it's pointless. This is why - an organized group cannot be classified as an organised crime group if a member of that group committed a crime. If that were possible, then, let's say, at this point, the Serbian judiciary would be in the position of organised crime, because some public prosecutors and some judges have been arrested on suspicion of committing a crime. If you did not adopt this amendment, then you would have to admit that all the authorities are now in the function of organised crime, because we hear daily from government representatives, first of all, Deputy Prime Ministers and certain ministers, that they are among those arrested in this action and members of the police and members of the military, and journalists, and members of the Association of Estradic Artists; well, does that mean now, and by this law, it would have to mean that all these groups are in the function of organised crime? What happens when in this action, where thousands of people are arrested, those who are truly accused are found to be a member of, say, the Auto-Moto Alliance, the Doves' Alliance, the Hunters' Association, the Rotari Club, an independent union? Does this mean that all these organizations will be treated as being in the function of organized crime? These days, certain officials attacked the ruler Amphilochy because they didn't like his speech. To tell you the truth, I was afraid that you might arrest this man, and then, according to this law, the Serbian Orthodox Church would be in the role of organised crime. With these examples, I wanted to show which absurdity would lead to the application of this member, without this amendment intervention that I have proposed. So I suggest you adopt this amendment, because it is clear that a group can be classified as a organised crime group or as organised crime only if it is proven in the judicial procedure that some crimes have been committed in the organisation of that group, or that some member of others, as it stands here, has committed a criminal offence based on the act of the official body of such an organisation. Everything else would really be pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28070	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28071	This is one of the attempts by Ms. SRS to at least ease what I was talking about in the light of the amendment submitted by the SPS. So, the essence of their amendment is that instead of saying "an organised group of three or more persons in the function of organised crime", they write down the words "that criminal acts have been committed in its organisation under Article 1(2) of this Law". So it's just a criminal group organization. I would remind you of the way in which, according to the 1980 Senate of the United States, the organization presented the traditional model of the mafia, namely its American subsidiary Koza Nostra, which is contained in families, families and is structured in a way that reminds many of medieval societies. So, about the very structure of the criminal group. On top of the Goat of the Nose is a leader marked as Don. His deputy is the first. Between the head and his deputy, there is an adviser whose influence on decision-making is greater than the deputy's. His function is, among other things, advisory. At the same time, he is tasked with maintaining contact with the outside world, representing family interests in certain legal affairs, etc. Underneath the deputy, there are several captains, and beneath them are organized soldiers. This is how the proposed hierarchy aims to illustrate how organized the group is indeed organised, unlike the proposed formulation in Article 2(2), which says, a group of three or more persons, which exists for a certain period of time and acts in agreement in order to carry out one or more crimes. Item 3: "Under the second organised group of Article 2 of this Act, a group that is not educated in order to directly commit crimes is not so developed as to have an organisational structure, defined roles and continuity of membership of its members, but is in the function of organised crime". This wide definition really opens up wide possibilities for abuses. I have purposely read these copies of the Koza Nostra organization, presented at the debate on organised crime and the use of violence, to try to present to the honourable MPs, who had the patience to stay with us in five and twenty, some of the provisions that, if adopted, would have far-reaching consequences on life in our society, which our society may place most rigorously on human rights issues. With this in mind, I urge you once again to take this problem very seriously, which can not only harm us but also put us in the last place in Europe, where we have never been. Let it be an honor to the MPs who will support this bill. I think this attempt by the SRS to at least mitigate the proposed formulation is correct, unless you accept our proposed solution for erasing this article. This is at least a step better.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28072	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Živodarka Dacin and Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28073	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment that is very short and clear, which is to delete Article 3. In the proposal for a Law on Organized Crime, Article 3 refers to a new chapter, which reads: "Special powers of the competent state authorities in criminal proceedings for the crimes of organised crime". We have given a very reasoned argument here, and as far as we have had the opportunity to hear more legal experts from the ranks of opposition MPs have indicated that this member is not in accordance with international legislation, and is particularly not in line with international conventions on human rights. Of course, there is one good old custom that when a majority coalition of DOS is needed, it is called upon to see, and to create legal projects according to the laws of Europe and the international community, and when that is not necessary, like here, it deprives itself of consent to these acts. At the same time, the proposed solution is not even in line with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties (Article 15).) as well as Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This, however, must be respected, what can be used for comfort, because I have seen that all amendments that are given to this member of the different variation are what Minister Batic said in his presentation, which is that this is one bill that will be subject to review, that it is a member who has been put into the bill just to speed up the functioning of the fight against organised crime. I think you should all keep in mind, no matter who's commenting on it, be sure none of the MPs of the position and opposition have anything to do with absolutely suppressing (although it's impossible) organised crime, but we really want to speed up our amendments a legal act that can work better.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28074	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28075	Gentlemen, the proposed Article 3 of the amendment and the addition of the law on the fight against organised crime as popularly called, is a multiple violation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the provision itself of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties which our country has recently adopted, more specifically adopted in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 26 February 2003; nor is this an explanation that this is the proposed solution, hence amending and supplementing the law in this form, even temporarily at 30, 60 or 90 days, the justification for playing with the provisions of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, adopted and ratified about a month and a half ago. In additional guarantees, in the event of lack of freedom due to a criminal offence or offence (Article 15) The arrested person must be immediately declared entitled not to declare anything and have the right to attend his hearing, and in paragraph 2, the arrested person must be brought before the competent court without delay and no later than 48 hours at the latest. Otherwise, it's released. With great regret over the events that have recently occurred in our country - and this is a shame for every country, which wants to create a legal system and to present itself as part of a European civilization, for a country that wants to look as modern as possible, as neater and more culturally - we cannot support the proposed solutions of Article 3 of this Law, which allow official persons of the Ministry of Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry to force and preventively, in order to collect information and evidence, in the offices of the Service, retain persons who can provide those notices for the longest 24 hours. This can be extended on the basis of requests from the official of the service and the special prosecutor's solution for another 30 days, as the so-called pre-criminal procedure is regulated by the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Internal Affairs and Provisions Act and the Charter of Civil Liberties and Rights. Indeed, this police detention is, at least in such a shortened form as is foreseen in these provisions that I have stated so far, unacceptable. For the matter to be even worse, a person suspected of committing a criminal offence with organised crime elements can remain in the premises of a special detention unit for up to 30 days, and with the approval of the interior minister, it can be extended to the detention of such a person for another 30 days, which hypothetically creates the possibility of a person first brought to the police for the collection of evidence of organised crime, and held for 30 days, and later on on the basis of a reasonable suspicion that he was involved in the conduct of organised crime being detained for another 30 days, based on the Minister's decision for another 30 days, and if a special prosecutor's solution arises, he will be held for up to four months in custody, without court and without court approval. Is it possible to accept such a solution, given the position of Article 2 of the 15th Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms. I repeat, the arrested person must be brought to court without delay, no later than 48 hours. Otherwise, it's released. To explain all the subsequent provisions of this article, and there are plenty of them, it would take me more than five minutes, but this is the most important provision and these are the most important characteristics of this article, and that is why we have proposed to delete it. Because we believe that no, even if a temporary fact of this kind of thing can serve the honor of any country, not even ours, no matter how much the heat of the fight against organised crime the current government was in, because indeed... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... The violation of human rights in this way is not an honor to anyone, nor to the DOS majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28076	I ask the MPs who participate in the debate to comply with the provisions of Article 137. The Rules of Procedure, and they say, five minutes tops, so I'm going to be saying more than five minutes, because it's here all the time. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 3rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Mamula, Dragan Lazic and Dragan Jocic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28077	And without these powers, the police have achieved good results in the last 20 days, I'd say. So it's very effective, so efficiency can be achieved without such a suggestion. Then I wonder why these suggestions. This severely restricts human rights and makes very controversial provisions in Articles 3, 15b, 15v and 15g. The law on the protection of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia did not foresee this; after the rebellion in Kosovo in 1968 and 1981 there was no change in the law governing police work and criminal proceedings; and there was no change since 1971, during the mass movement in Croatia, in that Yugoslavia. The question arises, if they were far greater earthquakes, asphyxiated with the presence of the military and military aviation, when the inquisitors flew across the country quite, how now suddenly this is causing these changes, because when the Code of Criminal Procedure is proposed amendments giving greater authority to the police, everyone is smoothly rejected. It would be good if we had stenographic notes from the Serbian government's session to see what any of the members of the government said in favour of these solutions and how he defended them; it would be good to have it delivered to us as soon as possible. If it's a preemptive witness detention, it's totally unacceptable. If he has the grounds for suspicion, it is most effective to determine the court's detention. Court detention, and then the situation is clear, because there's a witness here, and then he asks for damages, because he didn't testify. So don't take too long from being held in court. It's set for 30 days, then two months, then three more, until it's established, while it has grounds for detention. If there's no grounds for court detention, then there's no grounds for police. What is the essence of this proposal? Should the suspect, or the defendant, be put in a position to co-operate with the court on his own conviction? If there's material evidence, what's the point? He can have three law offices with him in court to defend him, with material evidence leading him to a conviction. Therefore, the point is to mount the process and go to police coercion. You can be surprised how much you want, we've consulted professors of more home school and police academy; they're giving lectures, don't you believe? Go and ask them. So they said, about what the point is. Therefore, this is contrary to international legal documents, cannot be defended at all, a police detention of 30 days in particular. I understand this moment and the revolution, it's completely understandable, but I can't pass laws for a certain number of people. This should be such a regulated law that it doesn't change for the next ten years. That's why this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28078	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by the People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28079	The DSS amendment is primarily in line with the Constitutional Charter adopted, with international standards, and especially with Articles 3, 9 and 16. Constitutional statutes. What does that mean exactly? One of the goals of establishing a state union between Serbia and Montenegro is to bring our legislation in line with the regulations and practices of European and international states, i.e. their standards. Article 9 - prohibiting the reduction of the level of human and minority rights, individual, collective and civil freedoms. The Constitutional Charter explicitly confirms the primate of a ratified international contract and the general rules of international law over Serbia-Montenegro's law and the law of the Member States. This is Article 16. That's where all the acts we've mentioned go in and we'll talk about. The person deprived of freedom - and here we are talking about preventive detention, and detention is the form of detention; I will tell you that this is about detention, not about preventive detention. We're talking witness detention here. Under the International Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, no one may be deprived of liberty except in the case of the legal detention of the competent court; in the case of legal arrest and detention of liberty for non-execution of a legal decision and in order to ensure the fulfilment of some obligation prescribed by law; in the case of legal arrest or deprivation of liberty to bring a person before a competent judicial authority, on the grounds of reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has been committed; in the event of the detention of a minor on the basis of a legal decision; in the event of legal deprivation of liberty to prevent the spread of infectious diseases, as well as the legal deprivation of the freedom of mentally impaired persons, alcoholics, etc. in the event of legal arrest or a person being deprived of liberty to prevent their unauthorised entry into the country. That's all the Convention defines what's allowed and when the freedoms are allowed. We have here a preventive deprivement of freedom, and it is not for bringing to court, as decisions and the Convention are defined, but for testifying. International rules don't know the possibility of dispensing the freedom of witnesses. That's absolutely not allowed. Given that the appeal of this solution cannot be made to the court, but is declared to the public prosecutor, we can conclude that here - a cadiya sues you, a cadiya sues you, that there is no judicial authority that is the one that has to define and to determine longer time-consuming freedom. It could be 60 days here. A person suspected of working or taking some of the organised crime acts has no right to appeal for the deprivement of freedom of 60 days. There's no complaint! The constitution guarantees every right to appeal for a solution, especially a solution that deprives its rights. There's no real complaint here. This discusses a series of provisions that violate international conventions, the European Convention, international acts relating to human rights and the International Pact on Civil Liberties and Political Rights. We believe these provisions simply cannot stand. We need to find other legal opportunities to deprive certain persons of their freedom... (President: 5 minutes. )......................................................................................................... And witnesses should be forced to testify by financial or other penalties, and certainly not by deprivement of freedom. This also warns the Human Rightsnatch, who has proposed to the government that such solutions be deleted and changed. The Vojvodina bar also reached some conclusions towards preventing this; foreign diplomats also warned the government of the Republic of Serbia that this is not how it can be done and that these rules cannot be applied. We think that the most complete thing would be to process these provisions and get an act that is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and our chance at the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28080	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS. Please hurry up and come out for a pay phone, not have a conversation, and we'll all be waiting. That's the way it's supposed to be. A little dynamic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28081	Thank you. So the proposed amendment is to delete only members 15b, 15v and 15g. This could in particular lead us to suspect that the applicants of the amendments agree with the provisions contained in Article 15b and beyond, that I do not read. I'm not sure, I think that the applicants of this amendment have submitted another one predicting erasure and those provisions. I would like to point out that these solutions are indeed in breach of the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which absolutely states that (Article 5(1)) Each person shall have the right to freedom and security of a person, no one shall be deprived of liberty except in the following cases and in accordance with the law laid down: in the case of legal deprivation of liberty on the basis of the judgment of the competent court. There's a point. I shouldn't read anything else at all. That's enough. So, this European Convention, adopted on 4 November 1950 in Rome, absolutely prohibits not only these provisions of Article 15b and beyond, but other things provided for in Article 3 of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws. I must remind you once again that this allows the state or the executive authority, specifically the authorities of the Anti-Organised Crime Service, to decide, with the agreement of the special prosecutor or the deputy public prosecutor (determined by the special prosecutor to decide in the event of his absence, to detain the person. With the subsequent solution of the interior minister, it can grow to months of detention, without judicial grounds and without judgment of the competent court. It is, to say the least, a great shame, regardless of what we heard in the explanation, that this law will be armed and that it will only be applied for a time, while an enhanced form of fight against organised crime takes place. On the contrary, I believe that the fight against organised crime should have a constant mark and should not be armed, but should be in line with the provisions on the international agenda in force in the area. For this reason, if we want to come to better solutions, we can use experience from Slovenia that has defined certain forms of fighting organised crime and from the anti-mafian laws of Italy, from anti-mafia laws or laws on the fight against organised crime of the United States; so we can come up with constant solutions that will provide a future basis for the fight against organised crime, the fight against something which is the pain of all states and all societies back 100-200 years. I'll remind you of the provisions that regulate the features of the U.S. mafia. So we don't need an ad hoc law that we'll be changing after 90 days, but we need constant legal solutions that will provide a lasting basis for fighting this organized crime. I wouldn't want to comment any further. We suggest erasing these three members. We think it's about erasing the other parts of Article 3 of the proposed law. The basis for which even a partial support for such an amendment is that no state should allow itself to afford the luxury - contrary to the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms - the detention of any person in police custody without judicial consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28082	No more sign-ins for the word. National MP Zoran Krasic, who was elected at 17.45 a.m. as deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28083	This amendment by the Democratic Party of Serbia seeks to delete two new members from the new chapter, and this chapter is called "Special powers of the competent state authorities in criminal proceedings for organised crime". And the very name of this chapter doesn't fit the name of the law. The law is called about organisation and jurisdiction, and there is no need for special powers to stand, because this law requires little regulation of the specific jurisdiction and organisation of bodies working to combat organised crime. The whole chapter, and that includes these two members, covered by the amendment, deeply affecting human rights. I'm not going to list these conventions and declarations. One of these declarations is the one adopted by the United Nations back in 1949 in November, which very precisely defines under which conditions a man can be arrested, deprived of liberty, which means only on the basis of a court ruling and on the basis of presumption, that everyone is considered innocent until his guilt is proved guilty of a criminal offence prescribed as a criminal offence. The problem with this chapter and these two members, which you're absolutely right to ask to be deleted, is that even for far fewer failures, the charges fall. What we're going to have to accept in some new criminal code is that all that's provided as evidence contrary to the law cannot be taken as a circumstance based on which a conviction against a defendant could be based. So we'd have to apply that standard until the end of the sequence. This means that a preventive detention, which as a notion does not exist, police detention, and we have had 20 years of pain to take down the three-day detention that was, now in these new changed circumstances, which no Lex specialization can change, because there is absolutely no reason that could justify such a violation of human rights, gives me the right to say that everything that has been done to the present way, and even those statements, confessions, the defendants have special significance in criminal proceedings. They are also in one part of the party's statements, because the defendant is a party participating in the proceedings, and in one part it may be a confession, but it must be backed up by material evidence, in order to be bound by the court and to be able to operate on that basis. Of course, it's commendable if it clears up with crime. There must be a problem. This law on jurisdiction should define the organisation of the authority in this sense that you provide evidence in the preparation of their arrest. There's the recording, there's the insertion of organized groups, there's all that needs to be preceded by that solution when you take a man to court for the first time, and his detention is determined. So we're in this matter, the matter of the pre-cover procedure, the early detection, the security of all evidence, the preparation for the elimination of an organized criminal group. Unfortunately, in these provisions, which are called "Special Powers", there is no one, but there is: we will bring a man in and then within 60, 90 days or two years and who knows how many days to collect evidence, and these evidence will be, about, by the system -- he probably did, and on the basis of "probable" a man will go to jail. I'd be pleased to see that, by any chance, a provision on mandatory stenographic notes has been inserted here in addition to sound recording, which we generally lack in a full criminal procedure, so that judges don't change our testimony.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28084	Based on article 101, I give you a warning because you've been over five minutes. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28085	Just a few remarks, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People. Some people here talk and explain, as if it were a procedure to regulate borders or out-of-court alignment. This is about the perpetrators of the most escalating and monstrosistic crimes. Of course, everything has to be followed by evidence. Of course the remains of Ivan Stambolic were found; DNA analysis of the remains of the deceased was carried out; a rifle was found from which it was shot at Prime Minister Djindjic, that they were taken from that rifle, that these prints match the one who admitted to committing the crime. Of course, there are more protected witnesses and all of this that is done in a pre-criminal procedure is of no use if it is not confirmed by evidence in a criminal case. One more thing, where did you read that the detention rate applies to witnesses? What law does that say? So there's no definition of restraint status. The question is, what kind of status could that have? That's one. To remind you, there was a provision in the former CAP of article 237, which allowed the witness to set 30 days in prison for failure to fulfil the obligation. So he could go to jail for a witness. Moreover, when the provisions of certain international acts, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms are quoted and interpreted as the legal norm. So, both conceptually, semantically, objectively, telelogically, grammatically, logically, linguistically, and whatever you want. Here's what Article 5 says. European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms: "No one can be deprived of liberty except in cases and in accordance with the law of the prescribed procedure". Under c): "In the case of legal arrest or imprisonment of liberty for bringing a person before a competent judicial authority for a criminal offence committed, or where it is reasonably considered necessary, in order to warn the execution of a criminal offence, or to escape in the course of its execution." Then, a series of provisions that indicate that the person detained may not have reported the execution of the crime, perhaps he knows about the preparation of the crime, perhaps he knows about the perpetrators. So no one here said those faces were witnesses. They may be blamed, may be accomplices, helpers, may be witnesses, and may be potential perpetrators of some other crimes in helping the perpetrator before execution, after execution, in preparation, etc. One more thing, no international organization, therefore, has either the High Commission on Humanitarian Law or Human Rights Watch told us to withdraw this law, nor have they made a complaint. You know what the main part of the memo sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia by Human Rights Watch is about: allowing independent observers to visit detainees. We are very willing to allow this, and already on Friday, a senior delegation will visit the Central Prison to see what the situation is. Then, according to international law, any measure delegating respect for human rights must be limited to a level that strictly meets the requirements of the situation. This is a level that is absolutely strictly consistent with the state we're in. So, 60 days may be a few people being detained, and the whole country is being criminalized and we need to get in the way of crime, that absolutely strictly meets the requirements of the situation. (President: 5 minutes. ) He reiterated that monitoring the status of detained persons is an important dam for possible torture and inhumane conduct. I'm saying there was no torture and there was no inhumane act. And they're finally telling us that when the time comes for proceedings, that trial should be open to the public, which we are heartily promising. It'll be with all the impenetrable glass, the bars, the cages, because the criminals belong in cages.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-09-0.u28086	We're done with today's work, and we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 127 MPs present and, please, to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs' units. I figure we've got a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Milos Lučić, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Ratimir Svirčević, Biaci Anton and Jelena Maslovara-Ralevic. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state organies in the subsidisation of organised crime (separation) The word has a National MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. It's a business thing.
