ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26780	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, when a law on privatisation or proposing its amendments and additions is passed, the Proposer should have a clear vision of the desired and planned economic model and the site that wants to achieve, as well as clear operational solutions, mechanisms and institutions of that planned economic environment. Building a new business environment is not a spontaneous but a planning process. Instead of the government proposing a new economic environment, it criticises the past system, which today is not a major challenge, since it is clear to everyone that individual property is much more efficient than social, that corporate governance is more efficient than bureaucratic, and that the market is superior than the planned economy. The proposal to amend the Law on Privatisation continues to simplify the view that privatisation is a way to push the social economy down the hill, in which the market economy is waiting, so as to see what happens. What's going on? It happens that we have hundreds of thousands of jobless workers, tens of thousands of bankruptcy operators, entire branches of industry are being shut down and entire industrial cities in Serbia, unfortunately, are dying. However, the government's skills and ability to lower and translate a social economic system through a series of privatisation cliffs, with at least the costs and consequences of businesses, workers and society as a whole. Therefore, privatisation must not be a goal to itself and it is not a magic wand to solve all economic problems in our country, nor to fill Serbia's budget. I'm afraid, since privatisation fails in the way the government wants, that the new business stick that will solve economic problems will not be the bankruptcy law announced for April, that many economic operators will go bankrupt after the accelerated process and leave many workers out of work. Despite the propaganda that privatisation goes at planned speed, the facts say it's a dead end. Let's just take the data from last year -- out of 1,000 companies planned to be quick privatised, only 280 businesses did so and instead of a billion euros, only 350m euros were achieved, not to mention the essential objectives of privatisation, and there are no changes in economic structures, new production programmes, new technologies, increasing production and exports, and therefore citizens' standards; unfortunately, there is nothing. The proposed law amending the Privatisation Act testifys that the law failed to lead to the desired concept of privatisation, proposed by the government. This is primarily said by Articles 1 and 11, according to them, the Agency should become the signatories of the company's sale contract, so that we have a situation where, in addition to initiating, the Agency controls the sale of enterprises, it now becomes the only authorised signator of the contract, so that the social Corps in the company, management, management, trade unions become a mere facility for the sale of enterprises by the government. We believe that the Privatisation Agency is neither human or organisationally qualified for such a job. Last year we adopted amendments to the Company Act, the Agency was given jurisdiction to give consent to all major decisions in social enterprises. It may not be disputed, but in practice it has caused a lot of waiting by the company for some essential decisions. This put a large number of companies and managers of the spray economy out of operation, waiting for bureaucratic solutions by the Agency, so I have to say once again that it is neither human or organisationally capable of doing so. Also, in Article 3, where it is said of extending the privatisation deadline, we believe that the deadline should not be extended because it should be carried out, but should have been organised better by the Agency and the Ministry of Privatisation and completed within the agreed deadline. As for collective agreements, Article 6 states that enterprises cannot sign collective agreements that increase salaries for employees. We believe that even in this way, the privatisation entity is placed in an unfavourable position, even in an unlawful position, because the signing of collective agreements regulates the Labour Act. This is not the first time the laws are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the same article says that the Agency can suspend the privatisation of businesses. There is a blank trust given to the Agency that under some circumstances, although those in this law are not concrete, it can allow the privatisation to be suspended. It is one great authority and it will contribute to further lagging out of privatisation. As for Article 14, which speaks of an 18-month extension to the right of workers of 30% of capital - we can agree there, although we were in favour of staying 60%, because we consider the Privatisation Act adopted in 1997 to be much more favourable for workers. If he had remained in force, we would now have almost 90% of the economy privatized. We can also support Article 20, which speaks of a change in the percentage share of the amount obtained for the sale of enterprises. There was no doubt that it was necessary to amend the Privatisation Act. He has to keep changing. However, it is not good that the government and its experts do not want to co-operate with others interested in the privatisation process, which is, above all, employers, experts and others independent, because with round tables, where only people from the ministry show up with asked questions, we will not get far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26781	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26782	Honorable Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, it is difficult to talk about the Law on Privatisation and to observe it in isolation, so beyond the other structures of the system that should in some way define a state that is going through transition. The privatisation law, whether we want it or not, cannot be viewed in any way isolated, it was the best in the world, had a bunch of mistakes or not -- it must be seen within the ambience, miles as images of a society moving through which Serbian society is currently moving. In order to adequately observe the transition and privatisation within it, we need to see a few things that make up the ambience. First, the legislative, institutional; then the effects of the transition itself to the entire economy of our society, still, we need to see what the effects of the transition itself are. What do you do from the moment the transition meets its original request? Looking at other societies in transition, we need to come to a few conclusions that can be comparatively applied to our system. First and foremost, in the Serbian economy at this time, we do not have enough institutions built, and in Serbian society a legislative system, which could be adequately monitored by the property transformation process itself. A whole series of laws, necessary to properly monitor privatisation, we don't have at this point. We do not have adequate accounting, the law on bond relations as necessary, we do not have a secondary capital market to meet the needs of a modern Serbian economy at this time. It is known, and ultimately this has shown the experience of other countries in transition, that the institutional framework, that the legislative framework can only adequately follow the privatisation itself. A few other things have been shown -- what the Serbian government, as the main one in monitoring and implementing the privatisation process, is doing with those companies and companies that are yet to come to the privatisation agenda. What about management, what about improving the economic efficiency of these companies, and what is done to improve the economic preferences and performance of enterprises that are yet to come into the privatisation phase? On the other hand, the big question remains -- what will happen to companies and companies that will not find customers, will remain owned by the state, where will be the dominant state capital? What do you do with them? It is known in the modern world, between 18% and 30% of capital is within the public sector, i.e. state capital. Sometimes privatisation itself does not give a final answer to economic efficiency. I'll remind you of one simple thing -- at the end of the '80s, there was a privatized railroad in Britain. She did achieve economic efficiency, but did not respond to British society's demands at that time. Today, the biggest complaint in Britain is precisely about the pile of train accidents that are happening, as well as the removal of numerous railway lines, those that have had their justification for the citizens of Great Britain. The key question is - what is the strategy of the Serbian government, or what is the strategy of our society (I would not link it directly to the Serbian government only) according to those companies that will remain state-owned? The next question remains - what do you do with the privatisation money? The easiest way to get that money into the budget is, but why didn't we take advantage of Turkey's example at the end of the 1980s? I remind you that Turkey invested most of its privatisation money in infrastructure in the late 1980s, and that created natural predisposition for the Turkish economy to be one of the expansions of the late 1990s. In addition to all of this, there are a few questions left, but one is crucial -- what has been done to create an ambience, or what has been done to create an entrepreneurial spirit within our country and Serbian society, what has been done to encourage a large number of people, a future middle class in this country, to participate in entrepreneurship, to go through a market economy? This is several issues of importance for the transition process, from which privatisation itself cannot be observed. In the end, but not least, there's one thing that's before everyone else, and that's an all-social consensus on what a transition is going to be in this country. On October 5th, September and December 2000, we had a political consensus on how political and institutional changes should be in our society. We have never, unlike the Czech Republic, made a social consensus on what a transition should be. In the Czech Republic, it was in Poland, eventually in Slovenia, in some other countries as well. Of course, there is this prejudice that political contradictions and political antagonisms in this country prevent a higher degree of foreign investment and a greater inflow of foreign capital in this country. However, several experiences of countries that were not from Eastern Europe, the type of Spain after Frank, the South African Republic during apartheid or Italy after World War II show that the stability of political systems is not as important as the institutions of the country itself, the ambience and the entrepreneurial spirit. This is the key to the success of a country in the privatisation process and in the transition process. Several economists, Nobel Prize winners, in their 90s, in a letter to Boris Jeljeczyn, during the transition to Russia, stressed one other thing, and this is not so much a private property, and it is important because it has proved historically to be the most efficient in the market economy, but primarily competition, which is the very essence of market economy and free market. This is the essence of what should be a transition in Serbia -- encouraging competition and encouraging as many people as possible to engage in entrepreneurial waters. In the end, not least, Serbia is at a very serious moment today. I do not belong to those who will say, the worse for Serbia, the better for the political groups that are today on the opposite half of the government of the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, as I was not happy about Milosevic's mistakes, I cannot be happy about the mistakes of the Serbian government, because we did not get this country to put it in the same position as it was during Slobodan Milosevic in our mutual conflicts. We have inherited this land from our ancestors, we should leave it to our descendants, as a serious, orderly country, to create an ambience to come to terms with the essence of transition, which is to increase the social production and well-being of the people. It is the very essence of the transition and privatisation that should take place in Serbia. We cannot reconcile with the fact that the Serbian government, that the clientele that has acquired wealth during the former regime at the moment executes on Serbia's economy the initial accumulation of capital; it is after that not the political, national and state fate of the country, but only their own wealth. That is what this privatisation and the transition in Serbia cannot allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26783	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26784	In light of the changes and additions made to this law, the Privatisation Act was adopted for the sake of faster economic development and social stability. This explanation might be for someone who is questionable, if we hadn't heard the minister explain all the advantages of the law. Well, he said: the stability of the economy is reflected in it -- the citizens of Serbia, you didn't or almost didn't have electricity until a former member of the SPO came for the minister of privatisation; well, it goes on -- Serbian citizens, you might have done something in the past, you might have received some money, you might have had a church, but now that I've come here as a reformer, now you have nothing. What's evidence of that - past period. How does the minister analyse the effects of privatisation? It says: over the past 300m euros (not more than 360 ministers, and 60 should arrive later; I am very careful what you say, because I expect that one day you will return to the SPO and become a coalition) received, and in the earlier period 30 million marks. Look, the same minister and many government representatives have convinced Serbian citizens that the financial effect of privatisation should be at least a billion euros in the past. We Serbian radicals told you, Vojislav Seselj said from this pay phone - we accept privatisation, but when you vote the law you must respect the rules of the game by which the game will take place, you must abide by these rules. You didn't listen, Minister. You didn't listen, as those in The Hague don't listen, which he said were dressed as inquisitors, and you act and act like them, but now it's not a subject. What did you do? First amending and supplementing the law - changing the rules of the game. The first rule you've changed is what you've said - the time limit of privatisation is being extended. How do potential customers react? With the infidel, with the reserve. What happens next time? You're going to change something again with some kind of amendment and some addition to the law, and where are people going to find themselves? He'll find himself on ice, he won't know what to do. This government changes the rules, puts changes and supplements on her mind. Incomprehensible comments from the O.R. What matters is that you're beautiful and smart. When did the rules break the first time? For the first time, gentlemen, when you started your private calculations to carry out in the privatisation process. One of the examples of this is the Beochen cement factory. Now with this change and addition, since you've fallen into your own traps, you're looking for greater independence of the agency. Why the greater independence of the agency? You hit your head against the wall when it was a sugar shop in Red. That's when you saw yourself getting involved in your own combination. Now you're looking for greater independence. What's the effect? The ultimate effect will be devastating. What an explanation it will be; it will be a better future, only that the transition is over and that we can bring this transition process to an end. Gentlemen, you can't do that. That's two important rules. You can't have more independence. We warned you then - privatisation must be short, fair and just, and you started with your private combinations. Next, you explain this change and addendum by technical simplification and in this new schedule of funds received from privatisation, so you say - the autonomous province will belong to 50%. He won't, gentlemen. The autonomous province of today, when they bring their new constitution, will belong as much as they want themselves, as the American lobbyists determine, and you will announce to the Serbian public -- we had no choice, they threatened us with sanctions, we had to accept it. I would accept these simplifications if you had put in the same rank as the City of Belgrade, as you put in an autonomous province. By all parameters, the City of Belgrade and an autonomous province are the same, both by economic development and by separation The City of Belgrade is higher, but you did not put it, but you put it within the framework of local self-government. You gentlemen have to take care of what you do. This is Serbia's greatest fortune, which is at your disposal. You have long begun to sell goods that are worthy of Serbia, and you have begun to sell all patriots to The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26785	The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. This had to happen before, because privatisation under your law is not good. When we first adopted this law, Minister Vlahovic said - this is a historic law and is expected to bring prosperity to the country. They sell what's worth in the land and there's no prosperity. It's getting worse than it used to be. The law is truly historic. We expected you to give before you try to change anything in this law to submit a report -- how many companies were sold, where the money went from the sale of enterprises, how much money came into the privatisation budget, how the distribution was made, where the funds were spent, how the companies that were privatized work. You didn't file this report, but you're gonna have to do it. Whether you do it in front of this congregation or in front of a new congregation, it doesn't matter. You'll have to file for this sometime. You've criticised the Privatisation Act a lot, but the truth always comes out. All companies privatised under our law are doing well, no workers have been fired, have good personal incomes, while on the other side of the company privatised under your law have the following results - there are 100,000 workers left without a job, in many companies workers do not receive salaries for six or more months, Minister Vlahovic announces the introduction of bankruptcy for about 50% of large enterprises. The money from the sale of companies did not go into the development of the economy, the holes in the budget are rags, the money is used for daily use, and you will sell businesses and there will be no big deal of it. Minister Vlahovic promised the public the work before this assembly. That's true, because the auction is broadcast by television. But on the other hand, there is a secret about the money that comes from the sale of the company. If everything was public, it's a lot. Speaking of public, at the auction, what's done is terrible. Sit down a couple of people with cards, one of them reads numbers... Can Milka come for a pay phone? [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26787	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26788	One reads the numbers, they lift the cards, the route, the route, the hour one lifts the chart, the hour two, and in five minutes the company leaves. When you finally ask who bought it, who he bought it for, or what the buyer's name is -- you don't know anything. What the workers have done for 40 or 50 years is sold without anyone from the company being able to do anything, or influence it, or know anything about it. Citizens often say Minister Vlahovic and his father would not allow him to sell whatever he wants in Serbia without submitting bills to anyone. It'll be safe to file, but it'll be too late. Citizens of Vlahovic are not seen as the minister of privatisation, but as the minister of bankruptcy and sale. Article 20(2) provides for 50% of the company's assets to go to finance the development of Serbia's economy. It would be right and fairer if this member of the law stood - 50% of the funds will be allocated to the development of the municipality's economy from which the company sold. What is achieved by this proposal? Equal development across Serbia, the development of the environment from which the company was sold, the creation of new jobs in the environment. Otherwise, we'll stop the development of small environments. The next issue to be resolved is the privatisation of small businesses up to 50 workers. If workers say they want to buy their businesses, then they need to be given an accounting value, no auction and no bidding. Finally, I would like to remind you that you are taking care of privatisation, because privatisation has been carried out in Bulgaria. Of the 28 experts who worked on the privatisation, 25 were arrested and not to be the folk-playing bear in the china.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26789	The word has been made by MP Arsen Kurjački, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and then by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26790	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister said in his first presentation: "I will try to give you very brief information on what we have done so far, although the Assembly Committee receives complete reports on the course of privatisation, all signed contracts. "A question arises which the Assembly Committee receives from this great information, when the Privatisation Committee has not yet been established, let alone start to work and discuss all this. Not to mention that this assembly has not received a single report on the work of the government, and especially on the course of the privatisation process. Then the question arises on why we should discuss here, determine whether we are for these amendments and additions to the law, whether privatisation should go in the proposed direction, or maybe we need some different turn. I will look only at part of the way in which privatisation is carried out, which is very often mentioned in public. The minister said, "The way the concept of privatisation is set gives us the opportunity to identify potential customers in advance, to measure their level of credibility, and in a competitive procedure we choose the most favourable variant of privatisation for our businesses." I wonder what are the most favourable variations when only four interested buyers report for three cements, and for sugar candies, by the rule of one, sometimes two. How do we accept that these are the most favourable variations, when, at the time of sanctions against SRJ, the same foreign buyer, Lafarg, offered 75 million dollars for the Belgrade cement store, and now that this new democratic authority has been recognised in the world, only $50.89 million was paid, with similar investments and a social programme. We only remember those big debates that cheered us up, when Mr. Nenad Canak, President of the Vojvodina Assembly, publicly threatened Minister Vlahovic: "You'll be wearing bucagies in prison, and the sale contract will be annulled". Minister Vlahovic, of course, did not owe him the shooting. Look at the wonders, all of a sudden everyone shuts up, the cement store sells, everyone seems to smell, and only this country and the people stayed shorter for $25 million. No one seems to be asking "where is our money" anymore, and how much money could cure businesses, how much could be shared with the advantageous loans of craftsmen, peasants, merchants, without talking about social aid users. It's a special question about this cement store, which is the basis of which is used to produce cement. Did someone sell this country's natural treasure? A year and a half ago when we broke up on the issue of selling natural wealth, then we were convinced that natural wealth would not be sold, and now it remains unclear how it is used in Beocino, on which basis, whether it is a concession, whether it is a sale or something quite third and unfortunately we have no data on it. Let's take a look at the sugars in Vojvodina. That was a lot of stories. A particularly sugary "South-West Back" from Bac is sold, you've all heard, believe it or not, for three euros. However, with a signed investment contract of 2.01m euros and a fivem-euro social programme. It's not the other way around. Mr. Minister, I have here an official document of the Chamber of Commerce, and what you didn't deliver to us and what we don't have, it's something else. So that's a very big difference, when money you have to count all of a sudden or when it can be succesively on wars. However, since the customer is well-known "MK Komerc" from Novi Sad, the buyer is still a few sugars, owned by a long-time financier and a member of the Democratic Party, and then, of course, it is not surprising what is so favourable and done. If we compare the similar sugar "Shajkaška" from frog, which was sold to a foreign buyer for 1.1m euros, the 7.98m social programme and 1.05 investments, then the account clearly shows that our best man has been inaugurated only in Baco by about three million euros, not to mention other sugars. In particular, the question is what would happen to the definition and oath of this government that the production and economic capacity of vital interest for this country would be sold only to the strategic partners i.e. worldly recognised and renowned producers, in order to get into world economic flows as soon as possible, etc. The company "MK Komerc" does not belong to these strategic sugar producers, recognised in the world. MK Komertz is a classic trading firm and will now likely become a serious producer. A lot of different affairs about the sale of businesses have been so far, but there have been particularly distressing developments around the Red Red Sugar Factory from Red. This strongest sugar shop has been sold for three million, with a social programme of about 6.5 million and eight million euros in investments. Let's deal with it a little bit. According to an estimate by the official government of a financial consultant firm, the value of the candy was 12.5m euros, and according to our respective institutions, capital amounted to around 20m euros, plus last year's investments, silos and remonts worth sevenm euros. That wasn't included. Also, the company's profits are not included, meaning the difference between claims and debts, which amounted to 4.5m euros at a given time. We didn't calculate the existing sugar supply, nor the contracted advance production of sugar beet at about 13,000 hectares, which will be enough for the 2003 processing season. Who doesn't know, industrial capacities tend to produce industrial herbs, sugar tails, sunflowers, soybeans, and it's a serious investment for them. Also last year, in this sugary value of production was 33 million and plus three million was dropped on molasses, on noodles, and this tells you the value of this economic entity that is privatized. Its property, since it has been carrying economic capacity for many years, is also entered by a football stadium, a swimming pool in Crvenkovski, two resorts at sea and much more, a pond, a motel, etc. So a lot of illegal stuff was about privatizing this sugarcane. We read it all, we were notified through the media, unfortunately not officially. I'm just going to get some information that I got from the Reds; they were, of course, the most interesting thing about it. We will start with the appointment of a member of the Committee for Negotiations, a man who already owned 69 company shares, which is contrary to a regulation on the sale of capital and property by a public tender. There's also a criminal record for that. More flagrantly, after the first failed sale, there is no denunciation of the tender, according to the law, in order to give new potential customers a chance, since the first buyer was not accepted. However, there is only a demand for a new offer on Greece. The two million raises the bid to three million euros. The Greek firm Helenik Šugar informs the agency that if their offer is accepted, it will form a consortium, try to guess, of course, with the company MK Komerc, which was also against the law at the time. Meanwhile, people are threatened with layoffs, and at the meeting of shareholders, second sales, workers are forced to declare publicly whether or not they are for it, while Minister Vesenov and future owners -- the Greeks have sat neatly in front of them and recorded how a shareholder, or worker, pleads. You have to admit it's very embarrassing, pleading, and the future owner sits in front of you and records how you plead. The famous saying of Minister Veselinova was then, when workers were expressing protest over the low price of buying the factory, that they had nothing to worry about about how many countries they were going to make, it was up to them to take care of the social programme, which would say that only ministers were in charge of caring in this country, and the rest of us could go on vacation. As far as customer credibility is concerned, yesterday the minister lists all multinational companies that are renowned in the world. A European Union expert on sugar has published a list of sugar producers, where "Helenik Šugar" did not take such a weak place on the ranking list. I have obtained criminal charges against Minister Aleksandr Vlahovic, against Minister Dragan Veselinov and against Mr Popovic Dragan from The Tower. That's the gentleman who was illegally appointed to that commission, and try to guess what his function is now. The gentleman is, of course, the acting director. Guess what he did first - all these applications were withdrawn, normally, so that our judiciary wouldn't get any of that kind of stuff. About auction sales irregularities, an example from Telečka, where the second, of course, at lower prices, with the possibility of paying unsuspected bonds is immediately executed behind one of the failed sales. I don't have time to talk right now, but I can only illustrate some examples of how some companies are sold. For example, the company "First May" - Becay was sold for 55,000 dinars to Mrs Mirjana Dragic; I do not know if it is the wife of Mr Dragic, who supplies MUP with textile goods. The Oak Society Company - Novi Sad has been sold for 16,000 dinars. At one barracks to buy windows and the door would cost more. The top, we read this the other day, "The Urna" - Saturday was sold for 169 dinars. I'm not saying that there are some abuses here, but I think it's really important that we get to know all these sales and that we can get a proper explanation, but not the kind of Mr. Secretary says when he comes out here. No, Mr. Minister, we don't need to compromise here by having you give us hot speeches, bombing us with some unverified data; we want to get written reports, signed, what our people would say (with the seal), that we can verify that and then show you trust or mistrust about those reports. So when all of this is gone, when we don't get any reports, and the complaints are big, the odym of the public is great, we at the DSS suggest that this assembly form a committee of inquiry that will determine whether there are or not all these irregularities and abuses. Only after that can we plead on these amendments to the law and can we support or not support the course that this government is taking.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26791	The remaining time of the DSS parliamentary group is one minute. The People's MP Cedomir Jovanovic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have volunteered to exercise my right to the replica and to respond to Ambassador Arsen Kuryack. As far as the Democratic Party's role in the privatisation process is concerned, it is very clear I ask the president to answer if I have the right to reply, given that the Democratic Party is very clearly mentioned. [[Louds from the O.R.: No replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26793	Yes, the Democratic Party is mentioned. It can be checked in the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26794	Can we talk as responsible people, or is that impossible at every opportunity in parliament? Please don't count me this time. So, the Democratic Party's role in the privatisation process was mentioned and criticised by MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Since it is not unusual for the DSS to express more than politically incorrect attitude towards the DS, I will answer you very clearly about this. The Democratic Party in Privatisation participates as a party that supports the existing model of privatisation and corrections that are the subject of our assembly debates. The criticisms we face can have a political character, but I noticed that it is constantly expressing and defending the position of dividing political and economic life, as well as criticising every idea of political impact on economic life. These two attitudes, present on the side of our critics, are consummated with each other. It is true that MK Komertz bought three sugars in Serbia, a tender on which others could participate. It is true that the company bought sugar in DonjiSrem, South-West Baška and Kovacica. The sugar you mention was bought for three euros, but I don't think I should criticize people who prefer the Democratic Party of Serbia for offering one dollar for another company, while there was another partner who offered $6.5m. It's our reality. On the market, anyone can show up and offer a price. If there's anyone else who offers a bigger one, he'll get one. Go ahead and tell who offered more than three euros, who offered more investment than 2m euros, more social programme than sevenm euros, who was ready to meet the 10.7m-euro sugarcan's obligations and find money that will fill a 4.2m-euro working capital minus. It's our reality. It's true that a cement store in Beocino was sold for 52 million dollars, and at the same time, four years before that, 70 million were offered, but not dollars, but marks. It is true that in those four years, the cementary has failed, that in the last month before the privatisation of the republican administration intervened with 40 million dinars to fill the minuses in cement Dinara. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I understand that you, as a shadow government, have your critical views on us, but I ask you to base them on facts. Today we are talking about a law that changes in such a way that 50% of investments will go into the budget, not the economy and investment. Don't tell us about Turkey's models, because Turkey didn't have a ruined economy like us. Turkey had $50 billion a year of subsidies from its allies. Turkey had no 800,000 refugees. It's our reality. When you say, "Give the economy, give it to the infrastructure, then tell who to deny it." To deprive the judiciary, the police, the education, the health care, the refugees? Let's look for solutions together. This is the only rational solution. Voucher privatisation has its good side, but they're not economic, they're psychological. Workers as founders of these companies get action and become formal managers. Where's the capital that's going to run all these companies? What happened to the voucher privatisation in other countries, in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary? Models have been changed, phantom funds have been created that have taken over all power and reportedly, in the name of workers, have, in fact, completely alienated the economy through abuses. When we talk about privatisation models, we have some very clear models applied to us. Today we have criminal charges against the people who privatized the Diamond in what way. How many times would that have happened to us if we had agreed to that? Workers get 30% share of companies that are privatized. No one prevents them from participating in the privatisation process and there are examples of privatisation where workers formed consortiums and bought out companies. At what price? The one that was competitive. Sometimes it's 2,000 dinars, and sometimes it's 25 million. Soya-protein was sold for 25 million. Is that a bad example of privatisation? Every company in Serbia wants to sell as best as possible, but it can't depend on us... (President: People's Parliament, I warn you of a time-out. You didn't count me in one minute... I did, I did, it's six minutes now. All right. I tried to answer you through the replica in one correct way. I suggest you support this, because this is the only reasonable thing to do today. Anything else might be better, but it's not real.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26795	You challenged the replica, caused by MP Arsen Kurjački mentioning the Democratic Party twice. (Dear Martian: The mention is function and party. () Yes, this was caused by MP Arsen Kurjački as a representative of the DSS. Here's a word from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26796	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, we have now heard from the previous speaker that his party has nothing to do with certain privatisations and have been mentioned here as something that has taken the most interest in our public. We heard that sugar candies were sold not at 3 euros, but three times a euro. We heard it all. What happened two years ago when this program was supposed to be on the agenda? What have we been promised? We were promised to have strategic partners from the world. The minister said he had 150 talks with strategic partners, did he talk to a certain gentleman 150 times, or did he talk to 150 companies from the world? What do we have today? We have 15 completed tenders, and four companies bought companies from our country, three sugars and a chemical industry. We have two ex-Yugoslavia companies and less than 10 strategic partners from that Western Europe and the world. Which, as my predecessor, a DSS colleague, said, is hard to say that they are strategic partners. Where are those 150 conversations, I wonder, where did they end up, where did those tenders come from? They're waiting for 82 tenders. It's statistics, and we need the minister to answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26797	MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group. You don't have the right to a replica, I've explained it to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26798	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to reroute this debate in the direction where it should go and, of course, answer some systemic questions here open and repeated. I am referring to the budgetary role and the privatisation process; to the strategic partners; to the privatisation model; to the privatisation experience; today we can talk about it, as well as the role of parliament. I'll start with the Assembly. Every MP is a representative of the citizens. Anyone can get valid information about any privatisation that has been conducted in this country since the moment we voted for the current privatisation model. Each contract is in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. There is not one MP of the Serbian Parliament who can go out for this pay phone and say: I asked for a contract, I was not given an insight; I wanted to see how public it was; in which newspapers were published tenders; who was doing a capital assessment: whether it was Minister Vlahovic or the world's most valuable house; to see how respected the contract was. So, let an MP come out and say he's looking for something like that, and he hasn't gotten anything like that. It doesn't exist. That's not true. The parliament participates in the privatisation process as much as it wishes and as much as it is imposed on it. He's being pushed through the government's initiative and this is an initiative imposed on parliament. As far as Parliament's initiative itself is concerned, I don't think it's enough, but not because someone is defending MPs, but because they're not really interested in it, except in situations where political confrontation needs to be done and in one poor Serbia to throw dust into the people's eyes. The privatisation model is changing because of the obvious need for something like that. In what situation? When the management of the privatisation company appears as a practical owner of the company, not formal but practical. When corporate management puts pressure on workers and sugars in Redwood, it is an obvious example of such behaviour. A member of the Privatisation Commission is mentioned here, but it is not said that the member was also proposed by one and the other sugar union, the Independence Union and the Independent Union. They suggested this man as their representative. It was not proposed by the government of Serbia, the DS or anyone else who supports this privatisation model, but by the workers themselves; they publicly pleaded at the assembly. For what? Because they were exposed to the pressures of their management, because there was no possibility of communication between customers and workers. That is why this deprives the kind of management that abuses its position. Same way as the last 10 years. Look at the privatisation in Serbia and you'll see whose hands the actions are in. In the hands of those who then led the privatisation process in enterprises. Not to an absolute extent, but most often. The moment the privatisation was over, some sold it. We have numerous examples. Look what's going on with Simpa, look what's going on with Jumka, look what's going on with all the brewers in Serbia, with Hemofarm; we can talk about that too. A successful company opens factories abroad, completed a privatisation model under the law that existed. If anyone has any objections, have them contact the Assembly Committee, contact the Minister and ask for control, we want control, but it's a successful company and workers get paid. The salary is an average of thousands of euros and that's good and we need more of these businesses. The company buys other businesses in Serbia. When you say MK "Comertz" you're talking about a private company that has won all the annual polls for years in Novi Sad. We are not ashamed that this man was in the Democratic Party, as we do not think the DSS should be ashamed of the successful people who support them. That's normal. Everything else is a political dissension that won't do any good to this society. So, strategic partners, and they come up with a very clear procedure, they are present here. See who entered our pharmaceutical industry? Who got into the beer industry? Who entered the steel industry? These are American companies, German companies, companies from our environment. Look who bought "Frick." New markets are opening up. It's our reality and it's nothing wrong. What are the privatisation problems? The problems of privatisation are primarily due to the absence of our consciousness in a political sphere that refuses to tell the truth to the public. We are not representative of goods, very few of what is lurking in this country and what can step into the international market. What companies today can you identify when you go to Hungary, Austria, Republika Srpska? What goods are being exported from Serbia? Very little. Therefore, the joint effort in this direction must be free of political demagogy. It's a matter of budget. We have a budget problem, and that's our reality. That's what we discussed when we talked about the Budget Law. Whoever says, too much goes into the budget, has to tell who in that budget needs money to pay. There's no other way. We have defined ourselves as that kind of policy. We do not listen to absolute advice from international financial institutions regarding the improvement of standards through the definition of economic price. That standard can be economic, but it's not life. It is true that the increase in EPS prices would be satisfied. Those who pay the price of electricity wouldn't be happy. We don't do it, we fix it. It's true to say don't implement such social programs, but we do. These are also our realities. Only these three cement plants, Popovac, Koseric and Beocin, have 15m euros in social programmes, and a loss of working capital of 65m euros. It's not true that these are super-quality perspective companies sold for a living. They were bought by the best companies that could have appeared in this space. These are German, French and Greek companies dealing with the production of this. Do we doubt Greek partners? We don't. The Greek economy is good and God forbid we are such an economy very quickly. Whoever thinks it could've done better, let him get involved in that race, come with his competition, let him say, we've offered more. It's true that one Valyanica copper left for $6.5 million, and someone else offered a dollar. We don't think we're judging that man for offering a dollar. It's his money. He can give a dollar, and he can give six million. Maybe the man thought it was such an economic price, and someone else thought it wasn't, and that's the end of the story. But that's not a minus for the Democratic Party of Serbia, at least not from our perspective. As for other objections aimed at the role of the union, or the status of workers in the privatisation process, it is differentiated depending on the situation. In some places, workers are very easy to negotiate with their leadership and perform together in the privatisation process looking for partners. Some executives ignore the interests of the workers and try to make a deal. There is a third case where workers and a strategic partner make an agreement, and management is trying to prevent the agreement because it does not see its interest in the business. There are often examples of company purchases on auction privatisation by consortiums formed by workers, and that's good. The privatisation will continue at an even faster pace. In the last month alone, that privatisation had a faster pace than in the last three. The procedure is ongoing, which is why the deadline has been shifted and practically given the chance for workers not to reduce their participation, because you know that we have adopted a restrictive rate of action rate for employed workers if they delay privatisation, calculating that we will speed it up. But today we make concessions to workers, and that should be clearly said -- 30% in every situation, regardless of the time interval in which privatisation is carried out, will be granted to workers. It's not 50, it's not a whole company, but it's 30% of the company that has its real value because it's got someone through investment, through liabilities, and that someone's called "Henkel", "Parmako". These are very serious jobs and therefore workers have an interest in participating. It's better to have 30% of the real value than 100% of what doesn't have any market value. Ask the workers at the flag if they're happy when they're told -- here you go, we won't interfere in your production, solve for yourself and look for a partner; they say -- help us find. When we find someone, it needs to be supported and accepted, because there are major fractures in the car industry today. "Fiat", "Ford", "Pezo", "Folksvagen" close their companies around the world -- the recession on the world market is obvious. When someone shows up and says, "We'll help the flag," we have an interest -- that's great news. We therefore support this type of policy of the Ministry of Privatisation and believe that quality parameters are absolutely clear and that they cannot be challenged by those individual perimeters present regardless of the power. In Czech privatisation, it still lasts 12 years. We hope that in this year, in a month or two, we will cross that ruby and say that 50% of the economy is in the hands of the businessmen. Today it's 40% in the hands of the businessmen. That 40% produces 70% of our value. It's another argument to privatise our country's economy. What about social capital? He was well destroyed under circumstances that we could not influence. Maybe the previous government wanted it best, but the results weren't like that. It ended two years ago and there's no reason to talk about it. But it's not a great perspective for these companies and it needs to help them transform as soon as possible, change the production program, find a strategic partner, compete on the market, because we're not the worst. Individually, we are quality people and the question of a good organization is what we lacked in all critical situations when we as a society suffered. Today we have this good organization. That's not what we're talking about alone. That's what those who analyze us say very seriously because their interests are serious. In these political conflicts, I think there is no room for doubt, at least on the subject of this privatisation; certainly, those arguments that have been made are nameless. No one came out here and said, "I asked for documentation on sugar or cement and they wouldn't give it to me." I wanted to see how some companies were privatizing, so I was denied it. Television in this country conveys privatisation although sometimes it is problematic to bid and play numbers, but it is a reality and it is a market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26799	The breach of the Rules of Procedure -- deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, you brought this business together, all of you from the "trouble" DOS: DS, DSS. In Article 97, paragraph 4, the replica cannot last more than three minutes. I ask that all MPs have the same attitude. Some MPs may even answer without announcing what the basis is for going out for a pay phone. That's what we saw on your face. You only then find out why and how the MP came out for the pay phone. But we Serbian radicals are essentially looking forward to a conflict between one side and the other, with little faith in this conflict.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26801	What does that have to do with the Rules of Procedure now? You advertised a member and I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26802	Very often, the conflict in parliament itself is being falsified, but you always agree when it comes to voting something that is at the expense of the Serbian Radical Party, because on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, which you now do not respect, you have very often pushed us out of Serbian Radical Party MPs. And on this law, which the DSS now allegedly criticises, you reached agreement in July 2001, when you voted on it, as well as when you agreed to bring the Charter of the New State Community. At that time, the DSS is allegedly not going to vote for the Charter, and their votes are not necessarily necessary, but that is why they vote for the Constitutional Charter Act, so even when it comes to those laws that we have so far, without citing the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, where you have also reached agreement -- it is clear that there is no DOS -- Serbia and the DSS reform and other opposition, as it has often been heard in public lately. There is a "trouble" DOS here and there is an opposition in the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26803	You have actually committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure by taking advantage of the advertising of damage to the Rules of Procedure for replication and rallying in the National Assembly, and you have the right to hold a press conference every day whenever you want. Also, I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I gave my word to MP Cedomir Jovanovic, which is in the stenographic notes. I wasn't sure if he was looking for a replica or a word as head of the parliamentary group and we lost one minute while he was explaining it to me. And I included that in time, as well as other parliamentary groups. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board may provide an answer. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. The remaining time of the Serbian Radical Party is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26804	We learned that Kostunica's financier offered to "Sevojno" one dollar and that Djindjic's financier bought three sugars for six or three euros. These brothers died here by mother, in Kostunica, I apologize. Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, privatisation in Serbia is dramatically late, irreparably late. The experiences of Eastern European countries tell us that in addition to good institutional preparation, in order for this job to be well completed, it is an extremely important time-limit for privatisation. We are now in a position to propose that these changes and additions to the Ministry of Privatisation be lifted. I just thought I'd commend Mr. Vlahovic for accusing the DSS, these ignorant Kostunicas, of populism and demagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26805	People's MP, I give you a warning about the insult of the DSS parliamentary group and I ask you to take care of how you express yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26806	Because we all remember that Kostunica's MPs here were frenetically applauding the law, and the law says about the restitution that they will be settled from the 5% Fund, and now they're making a completely wrong point here, and there's the minister right. They say it's denationalization, it's called restitution, it's a much wider term. I was just thinking of commending Mr. Vlahovic, when Mr. Vlahovic finally claimed that a dozen hotels would be exceptional. Very interesting. Two companies have been sold, and who are the old owners of these hotels. Current owners are from the United States. So, a lower official of the US administration, named William Montgomery, pressed Minister Vlahovic and said -- put that aside. And how dare Minister Vlahovic without a legal solution, without a decree from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to put the hotel in Tristenik or the hotel in Cačka out of the privatisation process, and then mention the hotels "Excelsior", etc. And how long before he crawls in front of a lower official of the U.S. administration? Why it's dangerous for privatisation to go slow. Quite wrong, on some bad sides of the current, the minister concluded that the directors reportedly raise salaries, so now that they're big salaries, customers won't buy. It's just nonsense. When I decide, for example. To buy some company, they raised their salaries, come in, buy that firm and lower my wages, and that's it. It can't be, Mr. Minister, it can't be a reason why customers don't buy. A much more dangerous process is happening in Serbia, and you should inform it, Minister. The directors of social firms, apparently the minister underestimates them, are those old socialist directors, oiled and so on, began to charge companies massively just before privatisation. I personally had the auction documentation of a duchy form, so it says -- the balance sheet on December 31st, 2002, 47 million is debt, June 30th, $127m and then the auction is called. In those two months, when auction records were purchased, 219 million came out. It's a massive process, I say, throughout Serbia. You see how the socialists keep you quiet, they know how they did it. So it's a massive process. So if we don't speed up privatisation, and the minister says -- this year thousands, and the next 1,200 -- and what about these 3,500 to 4,000 that stays, it's all going down the cold Morava. If we don't speed up the privatisation, make sure we don't have anything to privatize, because who's gonna buy a company so much in charge. They practically owe the company seven, eight, 10 million dinars a month. The minister will ask - don't you suggest a solution to speed up privatisation? Returning these stimulating measures, changing, supplementing; introducing a third method -- why is he running away from recapitalisation? Apparently, that's where it's gonna be. It can't be bothered, but I don't have time to explain why. Two new payment funds should be introduced, an old foreign exchange savings in the first round, at nominal value. You see, people have waited a lot and it's fair to sell on the stock market at nominal value. And why not this ino-debt, according to the London Club, we owe six billion dollars a day. Why don't you ino-long so you can participate? And quite in the end, since I expect to be disfellowshipped by the President of the National Assembly at exactly the fifth minute, I would like to appeal to the minister to do something about the Millionaire cooperatives. Everyone in this room knows, and the minister knows, there's not a single agricultural cooperative with cooperative capital. They're fictitious cooperatives. Four or five years ago, our ten cooperatives gave 100-300 dinars, mostly workers, huge government capital, huge national wealth lies in these cooperatives. In Raška and Rasinski County alone, it's about 40 cooperatives. There needs to be a solution, the same solution as it was for social enterprises, and it needs to be privatized. Don't let us experience the fate of Bulgarian agriculture. They eventually made some liquidational advice and liquidated the entire farm, and it's in disintegrating. It's a huge national fortune, and it needs to be resolved quickly. I thank you for your understanding, and as far as this punishment is concerned, you won't be able to charge me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26807	The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26808	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the right to a replica on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to present Mr Veljkovic. I would just remind him in two sentences that in the past two and a half years, no director in a more significant company in Serbia is a socialist, or member of the SPS. They all changed crisis headquarters, set up their own people, so Mr. Veljkovic probably forgot it, as my colleague Dragisa Marinkovic forgot to say a lot yesterday. He didn't say anything about the law, but he forgot to say that he had acquired property in the past tense, right in the time he was most critical of. So, too, counterpart Veljkovic should not forget that today in Serbia's economy, it is rare to find a member of the SPS at the head of any company.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26809	The word has been made by MP Zoran M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26810	Since I only have a minute, I'm going to try to sum up what's really the point of the DSS criticism when it comes to privatisation: there are no economic reforms without political reforms. If you don't have a legal system in the country, a legal state, investment security, then you can't even carry out economic reforms, and that's the point we're talking about. I cannot reform economic reform without political reforms, and vice versa. Statistics, the minister is often called upon here, does not speak in favour of a favourable economic environment in the country. To remind me, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has just been encouraging and competitive in the economy assessing the unit, privatising it with a two. The head of the World Bank office in Europe, Mr Sullivan, said that the legal system in this country is not good and that he personally knows a lot of investors who would invest money but are not sure that their business rights will be protected. This clearly indicates that without political changes, there will be no economic change and that we must go to elections. This suggests that only after the new elections, the new redistribution of political forces, can we move forward in the new political process of economic reforms. In this way, the Democratic Party and this government are the brakes of reforms. Until this government comes down from the scene, there is no successful continuation of reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26811	He has the word MP Cedomir Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26812	I can regret to say that for the representatives of individual parties, unfortunately for those who voted in favour of this law in due time, they are definitely responsible for the opportunities in the country, even one minute can be enough to devise our reality. This is today's Politics, just one newspaper. On the front page, Mr. MP, you can read the interview of the Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Among other things, on that front page of "Politics," the person you allegedly quoted, I don't know where you found something like that, says absolutely the opposite of what you claim. He says that "a short time after a democratic coup in Serbia, the reform successes have been achieved so great that the country that was at the beginning of the transition broke out at the leader's post of speed and success of change, compared to other transition economies in the region". True, there are also talks about brakes, but Olivia Decamp, director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, says parliament is the only brake of reform in Serbia, and that part of parliament that runs away from the Assembly Hall when discussing the budget, that part of parliament that takes away valuable time from us through completely unsupervised debates, that part of parliament that forgets the fact that the MP is free of responsibility for what he says about the assembly speaker, but does not mean that he can say anything and that he can speak anything that is different from truth and reality. It's our reality. Parliament will not disband, it will finish its work, it will be even more efficient. I guarantee it, because it depends on the parliamentary majority, which is convincing and will succeed. It's not exactly what you said. This country is successful and will be even more successful. She's very unhappy, she's very poor, but those who stumble us every day, along with a lot of problems, and how responsible they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26813	Please, you're the one who caused the replica, I guess you know the Rules of Procedure. No way. You don't either, it caused your parliamentary group, you had one. The word has been made by MP Miomir Ilic, the remaining time of the SPS parliamentary group is three minutes. [[Sagar.]] No DSS mentioned at all, check the stenographic notes. [[Sagar.]] If you've identified yourself, I'm particularly sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26814	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, especially millions of unemployed persons, and that part of the unemployed who have remained on the street with this kind of privatisation model, as well as the part that will remain if this law remains in force. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia said in his speech on 26 January 2001 that this is the government of speed, expeditionivity, a government that will not lie and will not steal. Speed and expeditionivity for these two years have been known to us, in the adoption of fast laws, including this law, which showed its results. The results are that hundreds of thousands of people are out of work, and the privatisation in that degree as an economic rebirth, in terms of the effect the government has suggested, has no real fact that they are confirmed here by the minister who is not present. The criticism of the former Socialist Authority, as well as the coalition partners of the SPS, in the sense that the Privatisation Act was not good, does not stand and we have several arguments that it is not true. The law that was in force at the time was good, except he didn't have a term of duration and limitations. I'll give you a few examples. The holding company "Bambi" Fireman is privatized under the old law. She's working very successfully, very well, she's at the world level. The workers remain the same, no one is fired, the leadership remains the same, the results are worldwide. I won't give you any further examples, but there are numerous examples. Let the minister state which of these privatised enterprises has achieved such a product that it has a price on the Serbian and European countries' markets and will speed up economic development. The sale of businesses and businesses is not a good way to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the act of spending for certain purposes cannot be checked. Here the minister did not say where it was spent at the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Affairs, or where seven million dinars were spent from the sale of social enterprises, where they were used, for which purposes. He couldn't because the government of the Republic of Serbia didn't even file a report on its work in two years. If she had filed a report on the work then we'd also be discussing the Ministry of Privatisation and the sale of the economy, and then we'd see where we are. It is unimaginable that in this process, when workers are left without a job, when representative republican trade unions are calling for these amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act to be seen in full, as is realistic, that this is not done, and that the social sector needs to be privatised, and that is why the consensus of all parliamentary parties is reached. I don't see any reason for that here, and in these two years alone, one goal has been achieved -- all of them agree that social property needs to be privatized. Here no party, nor one represented in parliament, nor outside, says the social sector should not be privatised, but mentions a model, a way and a different finger of the privatisation process. For this reason, we believe that this law. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Privatisation should be withdrawn and moratorium applied to the existing Privatisation Act. Then: to form a commission in the republican parliament by representatives of all parties, to respect the opinion of the unions and to be at one common goal, and this is a common goal, to agree on opinions and to adopt a quality law, to apply what is in the interests of Serbian citizens, and to ensure employees and unemployed persons. The SPS will not vote in favour of this law because the model, approach and way of defining the privatisation of social enterprises is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, so I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia should withdraw this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26815	As the Serbian government's report was often mentioned, I will give only a brief notice -- all committees have a report from the government of Serbia, it has about 1,500 pages, printing is done and a report will be submitted to all MPs. There's still not a printed enough number. It takes time for so much material. Since all parliamentary groups have used the allowed time, do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? The word is from MP Zlata Djeric, authorised representative of the "New Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already told Mr. Secretary that I have some questions to ask. That's what I'm gonna do because I have a duty to the citizens. So, yesterday we made a clear observation that this legislative project, unless a reasonable number of amendments were adopted that would fix it, should not be accepted, because what is happening and what is possible, despite the privatisation law that should regulate all relations in this process, is privatisation to so-called. A little door. Yesterday I mentioned the flag case; it has yet to be updated in the period ahead of us. Since there is an indication that there is an exclusive pre-contract, the minister told me that there is no exclusive pre-contract with the firm Nenja car co, but I must remind you of your statement in the TV diary on February 20th, after the address of Mr. Pokrac, that unless the contract with "Nukarka" is signed by March 1st, which is tomorrow, there is also a chance for Mr. Pokrac. That's a statement from the TV log. In "Blica" on February 21st, not to mention other sources, a copy of the letter from Mr. Savivic, chairman of the Administration Board of the flag, was published that the flag has a solid and exclusive option with the US firm mentioned by 31 March this year, except for the car manufacturer "VAZ" from Russia. Your statement and the first man in charge of taking care of the flag, the chairman of the board of directors, are contradictory. We're interested and need to know if this exclusive contract really exists. If there is, then he's illegal. On what principle does the flag sell? On the principle of a tender or auction? That is what is important to respond to Serbian citizens, as the flag is the country's strategic industry. And, one more question, as far as my Somborians are concerned, and I have to ask you here: how can the Sombormlin workers prevent the sale of Sombormlin at the auction, i.e. to prevent the current incumbent director from appearing as a buyer, against whom a series of criminal charges for abuses have been filed in his parent company. The verdict isn't over. Oh, that's right. So that's what I'm gonna have to pass on to them. [[The Minister's reply is not heard.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26817	The word is from MP Zivko Selakovic, deputy president of the "Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26818	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we are having a debate today on a very important law, i.e. Proposal for a Code on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act. In July 2001, when the Privatisation Act was brought in and revived, I took a critical look at some members of the law, because like any law, it had certain failures. But this time, as a responsible individual and a folk MP of the Peasant Party of Serbia, I feel the need to point out the good gesture of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Vlahovic's will to try to give new provisions and visions to improve this law to the whole. It is certainly commendable, and it is inappropriate what is trying in every way to show that everything is black in this law. It's about correcting individual members of this law, not passing some law in general. That's why I think some criticisms are unfounded when it comes to the law in general, and it only performs certain changes and corrections. This should also become a practice in the future. the government's obligation to adapt the observed shortcomings of individual laws to reality and reality, according to our economic and social opportunities. In addition to what I have said so far, I would refer only to some members as positive examples. The proposed text of amendments and additions to the law wants to remove the shortcomings I was talking about. I would like to say that such a thing has been done in Article 4 of this proposal, or Article 24 of the still applicable law. A positive amendment was made in Article 6 of this proposal by addition of Article 26 to Article 25 of the current law and by not listing any more members of this law that have also been positively corrected. During the debate, numerous objections and criticisms were heard to this law. Among other things, companies were sold into debauchery, maltenes were given, that almost all workers were out of work, that agriculture was destroyed and much more. It would be foolish to say that everything is ideal, that there have been no particular failures and that privatisation is perfectly implemented, without error. Where in the world is everything ideal and no mistakes? The only mistake is not the one that doesn't do anything, but it's known that there's nothing. To all these remarks, and presented as a failure by previous debaters, my comment would be: where, then, pensions from a regular working relationship were provided, as well as agricultural pensions, which began somewhat more intensely to be paid in comparison with the past period, when they were two and more years later. Where does he cover in healthcare and education and other budget organisations? It was certainly a big inflow from the privatisation. Finally, the text of the Amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act is acceptable and certain amendments, adopted by the Government, have been slightly improved. To conclude, the Peasant Party of Serbia and the Serbian parliamentary group will support the law and vote for its adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26819	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic reported on the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26820	Very short. I am pleased that the privatisation process is going public, that everyone is talking about it. Not only MPs in parliamentary benches, but the entire public is occupied by this process and it is indeed a huge newspaper in general for transition processes, because usually, and our practice in the previous period says that privatisation has run far outside the public eye and no one knows who the buyer is, no matter how much the price has been achieved, no amount of investment etc. Secondly, for the sake of the public, the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry regularly send their reports, together with all the privatisation contracts. The latest December report went to the Serbian Parliament on 15 January and can be made available to any MP, unless the MP wants to look at it. Then that's his problem. Therefore, it should not be false for this speaker, that MPs do not have the opportunity to gain insight into all the concluded contracts, in the complete course of Serbia's promotion. The next thing I know, there's a difference between doubt and legality. The fact that a person suspects that privatisation has not been carried out in accordance with the regulations is not an automatic basis for saying that privatisation is illegal. Privatisation, I responsibly argue, is under the law, which you MPs adopted by a vast majority in June 2001, respecting all the rules regulated by the regulations on tender iauction privatisation. It is true, once again, that there are those whose privatisation is not appropriate and I will repeat for the sake of truth: these are the lobbys of the directors of social enterprises; they want to lose any control, to continue the robbery of social capital through commercial transactions; for, let only one real reason be found for the privatisation in Serbia after 10 years of implementation gave a thin score, and after 10 years, in 2001 we had only 5% of the total social capital privatised. Why the privatisation has been permanently stopped, because of the fact that, in parallel, commercial, gray privatisation, or read -- the robbery of social enterprises. Therefore, there is no need to make sages for past models here because they gave us results that no country could be proud of, but to look at what was done in the previous period. The privatisation of the Beician cement factory, all cementers and all sugars was carried out in accordance with the law. None of the potential customers have ever been prevented from buying documentation, from going to the company, from making a bigger offer. No one at the auctions was prevented from buying the paperwork, going out and bidding the company. I once said, and here I want to repeat to the public, anyone who thinks the company is sold cheaply should come out and give a higher price, not to talk and in vain criticise something that's going on in front of the public. Anyone who wants to pay a higher price will personally be taken to the place where auction privatisation is performed. Of course, unless it's 200 kilos. I'm not wearing him. There will be public auctions: that the company is sold at 100 times the starting price, by 6, 7, 20m euros; that the company is sold for 300, 500 or 1,000 dinars. If someone thinks it's cheap and that workers are damaged, why didn't those workers raise 1,000 dinars and pay their company's capital. It's not possible that 5, 10 or 15 of them don't have 1,000 dinars to build a consortium and buy their own company. I'll tell you one example. The Vienna factory, the initial price of 2,000 dinars, was no customers, and five workers were employed. These five workers didn't want to buy their own company, and it made me happy, because they did good; they think commercially, they know that buying that company would only get debts, only the obligation to pay back something that someone else left behind, which they owed to the company, which in the previous period during the implementation of the famous free privatisation was robbed; because privatisation, officially, legally, did not happen, and illegal, through grey commercial channels, and how it happened over the past 10 years. So, a company for 2,000 dinars, no buyers. We had a case that a hundred times the initial price went away, because there's competition. If someone says - we are not about the government having a command economy; and then they say - we are for the institution of the market; and then they say - but we are about to determine in advance what the price of an enterprise is, then it is not enough to pass one semester at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade. It's a mixed economy between administrative and market, for which someone allegedly stands out. The market, I say again, is the Supreme Judge who determines the value of the goods. It is important that no customer is prevented from going out to bid, to come out with the most favourable offer, and that everything is going on in front of the public, that information is available to everyone, as is available to you here all information about the privatisation of every company. You have them, and if you're interested, look, if you're not interested, we can't make you read the reports we're sending you. Gentlemen, there is no doubt that the privatisation of cement and sugar is done in accordance with the law and that it is consistently, from the first day to the last, respected law and that the regulations are respected. If you're so concerned about privatising these companies, why don't you ask the workers in these companies, why don't you ask the unions; they've proposed their members of the tender commission not to end up privatizing out of the eyes, out of the public knowledge of the company employees, but to be actively involved. We all know here that there is no successful privatisation without the active participation of the privatisation entity. We'll insist on that. Trade unions and workers are so far, and from now on will be included in all stages of the privatisation process and finally, most importantly, in deciding which offer is best.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26821	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26822	Dear President Micic, dear fellow MPs, I would like to ask this menagerie that the dominations will be silenced. Dear colleagues, since today we must finish this meeting by midnight, on the basis of Article 137. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest that the debate in particular lasts for a maximum of three minutes. I ask the Parliament to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26823	I would like to put to the vote the motion of MP Sinisa Mitrovica, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - "Reform of Serbia", to limit the discussion in particular to three minutes. For 84, against 72, 14 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee also proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1 of the amendment and the addition of this law, which concerns Article 5. The Privatization Act. Namely, the SRS parliamentary group wants Article 1 deleted with this amendment. The reason is that this article provides that the Privatisation Agency is to obtain powers that do not belong to it, such that this Parliament will not be able to control it, which is to sell capital, i.e. assets. In addition to certain responsibilities, such as promotion, initiation, implementation and control of the procedure, the knife and the cake will now be in the hands of the Privatisation Agency and thus, given the present way of privatisation, there will be even greater manipulations mentioned in our presentations in principle. The privatisation agency didn't even do what was in her jurisdiction. She didn't do what was under the Privatization Act. In fact, it has not even controlled the privatisation process, has not controlled enough implementation, to ensure that privatisation is carried out fairly and transparently. It's all done the opposite. For example, I have a privatization of the Apathian brewery, where workers are, in fact, deceived, deceived. I have a 381 signature of the Apathian brewery workers who sold their shares at the first auction, held on 29 April 2002, where the middleman was BK broker, who took out for sale shares with orders where prices of 1,200, 1,300 dinars dominated, and a smaller quantity of 24,000 dinars. However, the auction failed since the stock exchange manager at the time claimed that this step was in the interest of investors and sellers, as he said the average price of 20,000 dinars was achieved per share, which was not true. The second auction was also started. Due to the lack of compliance of the timer, some stockbrokers could not participate in the action or sale or purchase. In this way, the Act on the purchase and sale of stock exchanges was violated. That's why the Agency was supposed to intervene. She did not exercise her jurisdiction and control of proceedings at the Apatino brewery. Accordingly, of course, the workers filed a lawsuit that was not resolved. The privatization of the Apathian brewery has been performed. They haven't returned money to deluded workers. Namely, prosecutors say above all in an unusual way that the defendants of the first order, which is BK broker AD from Belgrade, have absolute ties, because the privatisation agency had to monitor the process and way of privatisation, as privatisation was carried out under the new Privatisation Act. Therefore, I believe that the powers now given to the Privatisation Agency cannot, under the Privatisation Agency Act, be transferred from the Government to the Agency. It must remain a Article 5, although we have also had an objection to Article 5. The Privatization Act. Article 1 which is...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26825	I ask the MP to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26826	... in relation to Article 5, it must be deleted and I propose that the National Assembly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26827	Are any of the other authorizeds answering for word? Yeah. Here you go. The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26828	If you allow only briefly in favour of Mr Stevan Kesejic's amendment, which he explained on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Even the government's explanation for the refusal of amendments goes in favour of our amendment. Namely, the government claims that the Agency is a special organisation established by the Privatisation Agency Act, which is not; the agency was established by the Privatisation Act, and what it does is regulated by the Agency Act. Even if you wanted to achieve this, the Aencija could sell it, it was supposed to be an amendment to the Agency's Law, not the Privatization Act. We are nevertheless of the opinion that the Privatisation Agency cannot be authorised to sell, because selling is not the same as organising and implementing, as the Government argues in its reasoning by rejecting this amendment. The government says the agency is already doing so on the basis of the authority it has under the Agency's Law. This is now to be legalized, i.e. through this law. That's not true. Selling isn't the same thing you do and organize. In this way, in essence, the Agency introduces some sort of temporary measure over all businesses, we think that it is wrong and that the amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26829	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26830	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, this first member of the law is the most important and the biggest amendment to the law passed two years ago, as this member of the law fundamentally changes the position of the agency throughout the privatisation process. It, instead of initiating and controlling the privatisation process, practically becomes a social property management agency, because it is given the opportunity to sell and sell capital. I will remind you of what the Agency's work is and in general that control was said by Minister Vlahovic two years ago. I quote: "You have before you today a law that adequately forms a balance between the central implementation of privatisation and the initiative decentralised at the level of the company. As you know, in other countries privatisation was conducted by the state privatisation agency, and that privatization of the entire economy. We did not consider it appropriate that privatisation should be run by only one central agency, because we think we are sure that we are right, that management in our economy is at a much higher, more quality level than it was in Central European countries in the early 1990s. As a result, the largest number of enterprises will have a fully decentralised initiative and a decentralised way of implementing privatisation. The agency, as a central institution, will concentrate only on privatising state capital and privatising the social capital of the largest social enterprises." It is clear that the government and the Ministry of Privatisation have given up their concept. It certainly is not good at that part of the law that we are specifically talking about; the DSS believes that this is the worst solution in the whole law. With that, most of the public agrees, unions and other associations. We can't say that our management is ideal, it certainly wasn't as good two years ago as Minister Vlahovic called it, but decentralisation is needed in this process and this solution needs to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26831	The word comes from MP Stevan Guduric, deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26832	Mr. Maravic, Mr. Minister, when we talk about what the Agency needs to do, people who know the job should do first at the Agency. Since we were talking yesterday about being specific, I'm going to read what their knowledge looks like in the Bechoin cement factory case. Since you, too, practically every time at the beginning of your presentation from this pay phone, ever since the story of the Privatisation Act started, means in June 2001, every time you reach Beocinski cement factories. I guess it's a hit. He says, after the sale of the Beocinski cement factory by Lafarza, there was a change in the registered owner in Beocino's building site, with Lafarž being registered as the new owner. As a state institution, Catastar does not keep records of changes in equity shares, but keeps records of changes in real rights to immovable property, as a form of absolute rights. That's the 170 million we talked about yesterday. Yeah, it's $170 million, and it's almost a year since someone didn't pay our money. Since there was a change in ownership in the cataster, for BFC the seller was obliged to pay the sales tax of this absolute right of 5% of the purchase price paid, based on the provisions of the Property Tax Act. It's not a simple change in the firm's name to the cataster, because for a change in the company's name, it's not a cadastre, it's a trade court in Novi Sad. Since nowhere, in any law, it is not explicitly stated that such purchases are not subject to sales tax, the seller was and is now obliged to pay a 5% sales tax to Beocin municipality, as BFC is located on Beocin municipality territory. The fact is that the catastro was changed by the owner, for BFC was registered as the new owner, it was proven that it was neither a change in the name of BFC nor a change in the share of capital, but a change in the real rights of immovableity, i.e. the change of ownership rights over the real estate of BFC, which withdraws the obligation to pay the stated tax of 5% to Beocin municipality. We came to where is the most important part, which is what the Agency knows or what it generally doesn't know, because the Agency claimed to be privatization that it was only part of social capital, which was allegedly exempt from the sales tax (that there would then be no change in the cataster after the sale of BFC), and based on the already mentioned Property Tax Act. There is a general obligation to pay taxes on the change in each share in capital, the determination of the purchase price and nowhere in this or other law the sale of social capital is exempt from paying this tax. Since you claimed here that certain elementary things were being learned in the first semester of the Faculty of Economics, this should probably be on one of those semesters to learn. It seems that some of these colleges may have five or 150 kilometers, how far away they are from home, but they don't have the college or the knowledge that college should give them, since it's their interpretation, which is your Ministry, it's been nakaradous. In particular, by not reporting and not paying that tax on the marketing of absolute rights to the municipality of Beocin, given the flow of more than 15 days from the time of purchase, the seller committed a criminal offence. Minister, we're gonna have to sue that agency of yours, so she can settle what's due. Beocin will get you his money from this one, from some next or from some third government, the only thing that makes the meter neatly tick interest, because no one is so powerful as to steal the Beocin municipality's what is its. The fact that we have more than others is probably a little bit of a set of natural circumstances, but in doing so, we suffer dust and everything else, and nobody in Belgrade, in the government, in the Agency, we suffer in Beocino. We've been suffering even more since you sold it to Lafarja, because Beocin never looked greener, and today, like yesterday, I invite you to come to Beocin and see for yourself. You've been sending a colleague to Red, and I'm going to drive you back to Beocin with my car, and I'm going to take you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26833	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? The word is by Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26834	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, really question the Agency's authority to sell social capital and property in enterprises that are privatised to the highest interest in both this assembly and the public. Mr. Vlahovic told all critics of such or similar solutions a few minutes ago - why don't you ask the union? The same union spoke with Mr. Vlahovic on 15 January 2003. It was the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia. He proposed eight amendments, and none of them were accepted by the government, or the minister. They say, "As we have learned from the means of public information that not one of our amendments has been accepted, we consider it necessary to warn you first, from our point of view a disastrous solution is to ask nothing about that privatisation entity whose capital, i.e. property is being sold. Namely, the Privatisation Agency, which according to valid legal solutions has functions of promotion, initiation, implementation and control of the privatisation process, should not also be given the function of selling capital, i.e. the property of a privatisation entity, because it is incompatible with that of the same body, i.e. the authority performs its sales and control function and the same sale of capital, i.e. assets. "It is just one of the warnings given by the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, delivered to all MPs in the National Assembly yesterday, on 27 February 2003, under the number 139, with the signing of the president, Prof. Milenko Smiljanic. The question arises: why is it necessary to give so much authority to the Agency? What is the legal foothold for such powers to the Agency? Whether the foothold is in the Constitution - no. Is there a privatisation law that has been in force so far - no. Is there a foothold in some other laws in this country -- no. There is only in the need of the Government to speed up the privatisation process in this way allegedly. I claim that this solution will slow the privatisation process down. One more thing about this amendment, but also the debate on amendments in principle. It is a sad fact that we in the congregation today discuss both the Law in principle and the amendments without having the opinion of the committee responsible. We don't have a single opinion of the Privatisation Committee on the law today in the procedure. It has been tried in a commercially wrong way that the responsibility to the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Law has in principle not been passed on that committee. There wasn't even a conversation about the amendments. The government simply rejected any amendments found in this procedure, however acceptable they were from the union's point of view, both workers and employers, as well as governments as such. I'm asking -- when are we finally going to start talking about these issues on the Privatisation Committee? When the parliamentary majority in this House will allow parliamentary groups to give their representatives to the Privatisation Committee to discuss these reports that are reportedly on boards, which as an MP, I did not have a chance to see, and I believe that most of you who are discussing these issues today. That is why I think that this amendment should be accepted by the Government and avoided any possible negative consequences that will result, and among other things, in disputes before the Constitutional Court. Simply, we will slow down privatisation and thus send an indirect bad signal potentially interested in buying these businesses, which we are in a hurry to sell, to fill the budget and finance some items from that budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26835	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? According to Business, the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26836	Mr. Chairman, given the number of MPs currently in the hall, it is obvious that the Serbian government does not have the support of the parliamentary majority for its draft laws and it is obvious that Mr. Vlahovic will experience the same fate as Mr. Pitic with the Law on concessions. Please establish the quorum and tell Mrs. Micic that it is high time to put the Serbian Radical Party's initiative on the agenda to vote for mistrust with the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26837	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic is seeking to determine the quorum by Article 82. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into their MPs' units. Fortification of the quorum. We realize we have a quorum. A representative of the SSP parliamentary group, MP Petar Petrovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26838	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the Assembly Club is concerned, and we feel that this amendment is acceptable. For a simple reason, and because of the general public, I would just like to read first what the existing Article 5 predicted. The Privatization Act. He spoke of the privatisation agency as a legal person who promotes, initiates, implements and controls the privatisation process under the law. The government, i.e. the Resort Ministry, is now proposing that, in addition to these powers, the Agency is given the following, which is to sell capital, i.e. property, so we from the SSJ ask - is it normal for the Agency, in this case, to promote the sale of capital, to sell that capital, and to sell at the same time, and to control how the sale was carried out. So please, is that logical, that's all we ask. You'd have to have some other organ at least control that sale, do the initiation or do just the sale. It is also impossible and unserious to give an agency this much authority, and then we talk about the transparency of work on sales, or privatisation. For that reason, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26839	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized representatives? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 2. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelkovic and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been issued by MP Dragan Jovanovic, on behalf of the amendment's applicants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26840	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. Speaking of this law yesterday, in principle, I said that the condition of success is to implement the privatisation consensus of all political parties on the law. I said that's why there are 90% of the conditions, that all parties, all 90 MPs, are for mandatory and armed privatisation. The only obstacle is the arrogance and passion of the ruling coalition, which will not discuss it. We have submitted the two-part amendment to Article 2. The first part speaks of one who cannot be a Privatisation participant, as it is proposed that the Privatisation participant cannot be a domestic legal person who has debts to the Privatisation Entity. We're asking to erase the "domestic" to be a legal person who has debts to the privatisation entity. Why a foreigner who has debts to a privatization entity could be a Privatisation participant and, theoretically speaking, buy the company for a fifth or a tenth at the auction, and thus buy his own debts. A much more serious remark is on the second part of this article, according to which a legal person with majority social capital cannot participate in privatisation. This is a very dangerous member and he drags the continuity of how the law is implemented. The practice has shown that it has been constantly working to bring down the value of social capital, i.e. the collapse of enterprises, since the first day, means starting with the entry of crisis headquarters (I will give you one day and that analysis, how many crisis headquarters have knocked down the real market value of capital, so that those who blew in the trumpet, whistle, burned down the Assembly, entered to be managers in large systems, even with six and seven thousand workers). Furthermore, little has been done to increase the value of capital before it enters the market. There were companies who had little need to start working successfully, to achieve a higher price, to reach both the government and the budget (in the end we are opponents of getting money into the budget) to take a higher price. Now here's another example -- why couldn't a company with social capital buy another company with social capital, if it rounds up its work process and increases its own value? Well, that's the same people as when you have a car, and you don't have two points. You're not going to drive a tow truck to the market, you're going to put on wheels, so you're going to increase the value. An ordinary man when he sells a cow, he doesn't break both her legs, so if he makes her go to the market, he can make her go to the slaughterhouse, but the value is twice as small. So a little effort seems to increase the value of capital. I think the minister's doing this on order, I've been working with him, he doesn't think about a lot of things like this, but he's doing it on the principle of "cuff the horse where your boss tells you to." I want to tell you that the argument is thin and what Chad's throwing away -- the elimination of social capital, we agree, the SPS said at the last convention -- no social property. But privatisation is armed, nothing changes, nothing speeds up. So, and that social entity that buys -- e.g. You're making belts, you're not spontaneous, you're selling spontaneous workshops, you're rounding up the company, you're selling the whole belt factory much more expensive than the parts, there's no interference, there's no controversy -- it's gotta sell that company tomorrow, but the value's increasing. You know, it's not all about speed and it's not true that the rate of privatisation and the rate of disappearance of social property is increasing. This looks like little Dickie who needs to do his homework quickly so he can go play, and he does all five tasks incorrectly, but he's done the job. Because a successful social enterprise can until the moment it is privatised to buy a workshop or something that surrounds the process will not slow down privatisation. It won't be that often, but just disabling the possibility suggests that principles are wrong. If this is seriously considered, it will be seen that the argument does not say that it will slow down privatisation, because if it has to by 2005, then it must both be aggregated and individually, and the value can also increase; so no one can guarantee that there are no such cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26841	Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26842	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a sufficiently dangerous amendment. First, because we're actually trying to change this next model of privatisation, to change the character of ownership. We are carrying out privatisation to free ourselves from social property and therefore, in one sense, this amendment is unacceptable, because it is prolonging the change of ownership. On the other hand, by increasing social capital with armed privatisation, you are in danger of devising your own capital, which is a serious problem. You connect three social enterprises that have nominal capital every 100 euros, and then that's worth 300 euros in total, and the privatisation is worth up to 2005, and we're talking about 2004. Why do you think someone on the market is going to offer 300 euros, not 100, when they know you have to privatise within a year? It's a double-dangerous amendment, although it has in its essence some logical arguments. It is true that there can be some social enterprise, perhaps through integration with another social enterprise, to round up the production complex. However, the solution to the problem is not seen from this perspective of the amendment. The shortest way to solve this problem is quickly privatizing one social enterprise and then it enters the race for this second. Believe that every privatisation agency, every ministry, will support that process, and that's what's done. You know that through the privatisation process, we share large-scale social enterprises, to privatise what we can do in the first phase, and from what we can't make logical integrations for phase two, but this is a double-dangerous amendment and for those reasons. It does not accelerate the ownership process, and on the other hand it can devalue the i.e. devising capital that is so integrated.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26843	The word is by Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Ceda Jovanovic says is, but it is not a privatisation goal in itself, and it does not have to be the only speed in privatisation to consider when assessing how useful this amendment is or is not. Well, I guess it's also important to someone who sells, even if it's an agency, a government or I'm a privatization entity, at which price something will be sold. If we allow a social enterprise, which is now essentially working with reduced capacity, buying part of a social enterprise or another social enterprise, to complete its capital structure, to increase efficiency, it is objective to wait and increase the real price of the company's sale. So, from the point of view of the goal is more important this second moment, especially since there is no danger of bringing privatisation into question at all. Why not improve the structure, improve the material position of workers, ensure social status so that it requires smaller investments based on the social programme and more funds to invest and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So that's the essence of the amendment that we wanted to clarify here. And secondly, which is also important, however illogical this will be done to someone, so the Constitution that is in force implies that all forms of property are equal, and private, and social, both state and cooperative property. Therefore, you cannot delete the right of the social enterprise to live for the next four years before the change of the Constitution. And sometimes supplementing means exactly the life of that company. And not only that - the lives of companies, employees, but also many other things that are related to such a company in that environment. So that's the point, and I think that's the way to think about it. We didn't want to return social property here, resuscitate it, definitely stop privatisation, but exactly the opposite, that if you want to and in this way, although it seems illogical, we speed up privatisation, but at a price that will be affordable, realistic and certainly useful for all citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26845	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Vucurovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first part of my amendment refers to the SPS amendment, where I suggested that part of the text "domestic legal entity that operates on majority social capital or" be deleted. We've heard arguments for and against. The argument against it is the speed of privatisation. If the speed is the goal of privatisation, then it's a contractio in fact, because we're extending privatisation for a year anyway, which means that really speed doesn't matter. Second, Article 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia equates all forms of property. The formulation in Article 2 is anti-constitutional. Whether I like that there are social enterprises or not; I'll tell you -- I don't like it, but as long as the constitution is even as real property, the social enterprise has the right to buy another social enterprise, especially if it rounds up some of its production cycles, so let's say the construction company "Forward", a successful company, buys a brick, and then it's worth a little more. The charter didn't, because the charter hasn't gotten to that methodological unit yet. The charter of property is not defined at all as a term. No member of the Charter of Property has been defined, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is still in force, has. The second part of the amendment refers to the fact that we added Article 4 which reads: "A domestic natural or legal person may be a buyer of capital or property under this law only after it provides evidence that it has fulfilled obligations under the Law on a single income tax and extra estate acquired by the use of special benefits, or provides evidence that he is not a taxpayer under that law." That's the attitude that was thrown out of the Privatization Act, and we're returning it. And he's been expelled because that's what people, who haven't met the obligations of extraprofits, the ruling oligarchy, are getting closer. It is obvious that Karic bought some companies, that Delta bought some companies, that maybe Lutra would buy some companies, and under the current Privatisation Act they could not do so. And, many more of those who have avoided obligations under the extraprofit law will be able to uninterruptly, unless this attitude is incorporated into Article 2 of the Law, to buy it. The retroactivity clause is also needed here, but unfortunately we didn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26847	Thank you. The word is from Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26848	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not this member of the law against the constitution. It is true that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we will change in the next few months, guarantees social, state, private and cooperative property in Article 56. However, in Article 59. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly said that property rights and obligations on resources in social and state property and conditions under which these assets can be converted into other forms of property are regulated by law. Social and state-owned assets shall be estranged under market conditions, in accordance with the law. That is why this member of the law cannot be opposed, although it is true that this equality of all forms of property is defined in one member of the Constitution. As for the participation in the privatisation of the company, companies or companies that are obliged to settle the liabilities by extraprofit, no one could participate in the privatisation without first obtaining a certificate to settle his obligations under the extraprofit, i.e. he is not a taxpayer by extraprofit. That's what all the participants in the privatisation know. It is now lifted because the extraprofit law has a very clear and temporary limited character and we are thinking today about the situation when we will be able to realize that this law has fulfilled its role, met the needs of our society, and therefore it would not be good for these two laws to be conflicted among themselves. (Božidar Vucurovic, from the place: He has an obligation, but he did not pay. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26849	Thank you. The word has Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group:
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26850	Just to remind you, gentlemen, that we wouldn't have this many privatisation problems, or the Privatisation Act, that in 1994 it wasn't brought in so-called. Djindjic's law that stopped privatisation. And now, all of these stories, you know, that we're in a hurry -- we're in no hurry because the basic law I passed in 1991 predicted that privatisation should be completed by 1995. Now, with these changes, we have a deadline, which means it'll be over by 1997. Whether it will end -- we don't know, we'll see, but it certainly doesn't contribute to all of the minister's claims that we should hurry. There's no rush. You know, when you want to sell the car, you take it to the master, and you make it up a little bit, and if you have money, you put a little more money into it, and you fix it, and then you put some new clothes on it, in order to get as much money as possible. It's the same case with the sale of the company. Why social enterprises can't increase their capital means that they appear on the market equally, like everyone else, to buy, thus raising their value, going out on the market the next day and being sold at a much higher price. It's only a benefit to the state, because then the funds get bigger money than they do now that you've brought almost 600 companies into bankruptcy and then you sell them for a living. In that sense, this amendment has been submitted, and I think you should think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26851	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2a. The Government and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 142(1). Rules of Procedure, he suggests that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26852	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, I will explain the amendment to Article 2. The draft law requiring a new Article 12a to be added to the basic law, which would read: "A buyer of capital or property cannot be a domestic or foreign legal or natural person, or a member of his family or household, who gave up the purchase carried out in a public tender or public auction or does not fulfil the obligations laid down in the sales contract". We know from experience that so far, many have auctioned and bought businesses, and then stopped fulfilling contractual obligations, without any harm or simply did not show up for the signing of the contract. Such non-serious customers, who have done damage to other participants in the bidding, should certainly be prohibited from participating in the sale. Then, family members, within the meaning of this law, would be considered all those listed in the extraprofit law, which is "children, or adoptors and members of their families, parents, or adoptors, brothers and sisters, and members of their families, a spouse, divorced spouse, relatives by the masculine to the second degree of kinship, including relatives by the masculinity of a divorced spouse. The provisions of this article will also apply to buyers who have concluded sales contracts so far. "So, we predict retroactivity and explain it in an explanation of course. The explanation would be next. It is evident that individuals have used the indiscriminateness of the Privatisation Act. Until now, procedures that were contrary to the basic provisions of the law should certainly be annulled and therefore we ask that the National Assembly establish, on the basis of Article 121. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a general interest in the feedback of this law. The Government does not accept this amendment in such a way as to indicate that, if an overall exclusion of a particular category of person as a buyer of capital or property is assessed, in the event of withdrawal from purchase, or failure to fulfil the obligation under the sales contract, this should be governed by a sublaw act. I can't figure out why he's sublegal, if he's already going to do it. It could be concluded from this that the government has been thinking this way as we have proposed with the amendment, but it is not ready to be regulated in law, but rather leaves itself the right to, at some point, predict it by some regulation, when everyone around the Serbian government is buying out businesses. And in about two or three years, when there's still a little bit of capital left, let's limit that you can't buy it that way. I think you should follow that principle you introduced. Very often you make a precedent, and then you give it up. If, in principle, you insisted on the extraprofit law to limit the circle of people, then you should do the same in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26853	The word is from Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26854	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good idea and should certainly be accepted, especially as it is due to the analysis of the process of tender, or auction privatisation. Indeed, cases of practical malversion have been observed through unrealistic price hikes, outlifting competition, and then destroying the whole process. This then forces the state to reorganize an auction, or tender where they can appear and then, through different prices, still succeed in their intention to bring down social capital and cause damage to the state, while wasting time. However, sublegal acts exist precisely in order to define the laws more precisely and to respond as necessary, so daily, weekly, monthly, which is not the case with the law. In the sublegal act prepared by the Government, these principles are practically respected. However, the question arises what will happen to those privatisations that will be annulled because one divorced spouse participated, as recently, in some privatisation in a legally conflicting way, or failed to fulfil his commitment through a tender or auction. It may be a paradox for the state to find itself in court because a divorced spouse sues the state because it denied it the right to participate in privatisation, only because an ex-husband, who has not lived for 15 years, has failed to participate in a privatisation. So I don't believe in these possibilities. I think there's a space for malfeasance, and that's why we should leave that initiative to the government to define it through the regulation, the sublegal act. Practically this is respected in the sublegal act, along with another fence. Not only can he not participate in that privatisation again, but in no other within six months and with the obligation that 30% of the auctioned sum must pay, whether or not he withdraws. These are the first steps to suspend and disable this practice. However, if we did so in law, which is essentially not a bad intention, we would be in a position to say someone suffers harm only because the congregation cannot react ad hoc. The law is still too serious. We have 70 laws in the process and would wait three, four, five or six months to legally allow someone to participate. This is how they would be confronted in certain cases, although trends are clear and I am sure that the imagination of our business people would very quickly find holes in the law, which has been done right now through these auctions, when the prices of companies have been raised unreal high in order to just squeeze out some competitor, and then no commitments have been taken. So, this already stands in the government's regulation, plus the legal, or natural person's obligations, which appeared in the privatisation process to pay 30% of that amount and that he can't participate in that privatisation, not in any other one in the next six months. I think these are correct attempts to correct these anomalies. Refusal of amendments is not an incentive to our intention to ignore what is happening. That's true, but I'm afraid we wouldn't be able to intervene daily, which would be the case if we accepted it into the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26855	The word has Gordana Pop-Lazic, a replica, misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26856	I thank Cedomir Jovanovic for coming out to further clarify my explanation for the amendment. If I understood correctly, he was thinking the same way, that there was malfeasance, that there was damage to the public auction participants, that it could happen again, but it leaves for the Serbian government the exclusive right for her to decide when to intervene in that sense and whether to intervene. It's obvious he will. Now he also told us that we don't pass the privatisation law, that we only bring some frameworks, and that the government will eventually leave to itself the right to regulate and how much, if it bids and does not pay or sign a contract, it will have to pay in advance, from what it has given in advance, to participate in the bidding. He's got 30% left over, and he lost that capital because he didn't count. These are large frameworks and powers that the Serbian government thinks it keeps to itself. These things cannot go outside the law, only after some method can they be regulated by regulations. Basic things, rights and obligations of participants in the privatisation process can and must only be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26857	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 3 for reasons that I do not see an acceptable explanation of the government, which it has given to break the deadlines for the duration of the privatisation process. In fact, it is obvious that these laws do not have a long-term strategy, nor can they be applied in the long term. So, long-term thinking was needed when the Privatisation Act was passed in 2001. The government has not given any valid reasoning acceptable to this assembly that four more years, from the day of entry into force of this law, time has been extended to implement privatisation. The government did not create an ambience, nor conditions for the right privatisation to implement it, because that all conditions are created for the start of privatisation according to the 2001 Law, it is certain that privatisation would go faster and better. We will welcome, which is worrying, to alienate agricultural land even with foreign persons through privatisation. The Vojvodina is being held by many who want to buy agricultural cooperatives and agricultural goods at cheap prices. It is a land of national interest and in no way should it be allowed to be taken by foreigners or by some people powerful at the moment, by dozens in Serbia. In this way, the agricultural land would be taken and alienated from workers. Workers should have the exclusive right to purchase agricultural land in cooperatives and agricultural goods. That's why I find the deadline required for the extension absolutely unacceptable. These deadlines should be shortened, in order to improve the quality of the privatisation process, but in any case, energy measures must be taken in order to control the privatisation process, not to make furniture, not to calculate with former directors and those in a position to take advantage of poverty and carelessness of workers who are unable to compete and participate in privatisation. It should be an effort to be fair privatisation, but not only that privatisation is controlled by the government or the Agency. The privatisation agency must also be controlled by parliament, not just by the government. In any case, it will be complete control, that parliament, MPs and the general public will be familiar with the way they sell. Not that it ends one day: auctions and sales of certain material goods are scheduled, it ends, and many citizens or even workers do not know that it has gone into someone else's hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26859	The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26860	Ladies and gentlemen, by rejecting this amendment, the Government is making justice through the start of restructuring processes, i.e. the division of enterprises into two or more, that the process has certain dynamics and that it takes additional time to re-privitate these companies later. You're not saying that when you talk about restructuring, first of all you mean big systems. Among the lines, from the press and from your performances, when you boast of your foreign mentors, we have been read here by some Western newspapers and the opinion of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, you primarily think of the EPS. Electrically, it's this big bite you need to sell when it comes to a price that's interesting for a well-known buyer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26861	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the promoter, is anyone answering for a word? The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26862	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SPS Group has submitted an amendment to amend Article 5(2) by "privatizing" the point, and the rest is deleted. We also suggest that the position of the 3rd member be changed and that it reads: "A privatisation entity that is restructured under the law sells 80% of the capital or property". Otherwise, the bill provides for the sale of total capital and property, which we think is wrong. Then, we propose that Article 5 add a new position 4, which would read: "Employees in privatisation entities can set up a consortium of employees to purchase capital from Articles 2 and 3 of this Article, with the right to purchase according to the estimated value of capital or property, without organising public auctions or selling through a public tender, and under other equal conditions". Why are we suggesting this? I think this avoids possible decisions, at the expense of workers, on the sale of more than 70% of capital or property, and workers, employed in a privatisation entity that is being restructured, are able to become owners of 20% of the shares and thus put in an equal position with workers in other companies privatised under this law. This enables workers to buy their own companies at an estimated value, without competing with newly-roasted rich people and unsuspecting bids during public auctions or sales through tenders. The state will not be denied in this way, and workers are at least partially recognised for the fact that they have created these companies, but at the same time employees assume responsibility for the very fate of the company so sold. Since the rules of the Rules of Procedure are restrictive according to the way of the debate, I have not been given the opportunity to say a few words about the law in principle. I'm taking this opportunity and the minister's presence to touch some of my observations about this law. In the bill of law, I expected a little more essential, and there are many superficial changes. I think it should, and I expected the proposed law to find a provision that would define the issue of state and social property in Kosovo and Metohija, as already mentioned in this law by the AP Vojvodina. Why is no provision in this law to regulate this issue, and I think it would have to be found. The fact is that no act makes it impossible for Serbia to claim its property in the province of Kosovo and Metohija; not even Resolution 1244, nor the Kumanski Agreement, nor any other document. That is why I think it was necessary that there was one provision in this law that would empower the presence of international forces or make it impossible for representatives of the international community, decorated in Steiner and his associates, to appear as holders of the property of the Serbian state in those areas. That, in my opinion, had to stand in the law. If not, I would ask the minister and the government to pay more attention to this issue, to prevent the sale of state and social property in Kosovo and Metohija by those to whom it does not belong, and above all I think of UNMIK, Steiner and his associates. This property, and when it comes to enterprises, state and social, created this state from both its own budgets and international loans; it is now subject to obligations before the international community for these funds. It would be absurd if someone else had the property and were involved in the privatisation process, i.e. the sales process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26863	Thank you. This would end the morning session of the National Assembly. We will continue at 15.00 hours and I would like to remind the people's MPs that the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is scheduled at 1400 hours on the ground floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26864	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue the debate in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. We discussed the amendment to Article 5 in the morning part of the session, and the proposing representative spoke about the amendment. I'm asking if anyone else is answering for this amendment. No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živankov Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Since we don't have a report from the Finance Committee, I'm asking if the representatives of the amendment want a word. No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment suggests that Article 6 after Article 25a (in amendments and additions goes to Article 25a, which you already know what regulates) adds Article 25b, which would read: "In a privatisation entity with a majority social capital, which also owns a nationalised capital, before selling capital, identify the nationalised part of the capital and exclude it from the sale process". I think it's clear that in this way we do not prejudge a solution to depriving the owners of the wrongly deprived property, but we do not want that part of the property to enter through this accelerated privatisation process into the inn, but rather to preserve itself, and to speed up the law on denationalisation and then to resolve the status of that part of the property. Behind this part of the amendment I can tell you that there is a huge number of citizens and societies, associations of citizens for protection and return of unjustly seized property. I think this amendment represents a compromise solution. We do not insist on the current vomit, but only on excluding that part of the property, because I guarantee you, if it enters the process of this accelerated privatisation, that it will be sold out into depravity, and then I guarantee that the owners will not be justly compensated. Don't let the sin of the previous state move on to a new one. Let this new one be born without sin, lest it be humped. I think this time the minister, realizing the specific and political weight of this amendment, will consider and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26866	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Zivankov Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Milomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26867	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, in front of the SPS, I have tabled an amendment with my fellow Members to Article 8 of this Law, which after applying for a year and a half, we are changing for technical simplification, as the minister said. The fact is that in the current Privatisation Act today, there is a concept of privatisation, which abolishes social property and whose essence is the sale of businesses and leaving workers without ownership and without work, that this is going the wrong way and that there is no control of company purchases, regardless of what the government has made empty promises of alleged legality and transparency. Article 8 of this Act is amended by Article 36. The privatisation law regulates sales through public auctions by the auction board and is educated by the Agency. By law, the Commission had a president and four members, and in these changes it is proposed that instead of the company they be two members. We have proposed that Article 8 be amended and that it reads: "The auction committee has a president and four members, two of whom are representatives of the trade unions organised in the privatisation entity". The reason is that there is a legitimate need for more serious Union engagement in the process of selling businesses through privatisation. Transparency achieved in this way cannot be disturbed in any case, and it is clear that since the Agency has appointed three members, including the chairman of the Commission, there is no comment on the possible obstruction of the union representatives. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, until the Government accepts it because the issue of the composition of the auction committee, which is being educated by the Privatisation Agency, is not subject to the regulation of the Privatisation Act, but should be governed by the sublaw of the Government, in accordance with Article 40. The Privatisation Act, where it is authorised to move closer to the procedure and way of selling capital and property through the method of public auction. I don't see any reason to disturb the participation of representatives of workers and unions in these commissions. If everything's so transparent and legal, then what are you worried about? With these amendments to the law, this process is being extended and handed down to four years. The Socialists are for trade unions to play an inevitable role in the privatisation process, as authorized protectors of the interests of workers, and for this purpose will co-operate with trade unions, stop the sale of businesses, adopt a new law on privatisation and ensure that workers become company shareholders.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26868	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic submitted the 10th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26869	Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the text of the draft law relating to the part where Article 39 is applied. The Privatisation Act complements new members of 39a. In order to meet MPs, I will have to read this Article 39a point 1 to which our supplement relates, which is - a public auction participant has the right to object to the legality of the procedure conducted within eight days of the day of the public auction. We felt that, in Article 10 after this attitude I read, a new sentence should be added, which reads: "There is a right to object and a subject to privatisation." With these changes and additions, the promoter explained that he had reduced the possibility that 18 months workers would be entitled to 30%, then 20%, then 10% of the capital, so this right is even and it was given the opportunity to participate in the privatisation for four years, but what is most important -- these changes and additions to privatisation entities have no more rights. Instead of the privatisation entity having the same rights as the seller, in previous members of this law he has been removed, and in the provisions of this article it is said to be removed from his right and to be able to write an objection in the public auction process itself. Well, then, as you advocate that the worker and the privatizing company have the right to put the opposition to the public auction process itself, because that minimum has the right; if you took off and denied him the right to sell and sign the contract, he must have the right to write a complaint. This amendment is in place, or we can say by the way it was given in the proposal: "When you're sued, you're sued." We have suggested that the privatisation entity also has the right to object to the public auction procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26870	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Stevan Guduric, deputy president of the National Socialist Group, or authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26871	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment makes a lot of sense because this as it's written in the basic text, it's not capitalism, it's slavery, because practically workers and businesses are goods for sale that have no right to object. I think it's essential that these people be given the same chance, as well as what they want to buy, that they can object to that process, and that it's very normal that the one they sell, sell, disintegrate, or whatever you want, that at least he has the same right, regardless of which in practice he probably won't know how to make a living out of it. But at least to gain an illusion or at least to make an illusion that he has some right. Otherwise, as it's basically written, it's a classic slave company. I guess we're not that bad if we're a little backwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26872	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26873	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, I appear and submit an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act. This member defines an objection to the legality of the public auction procedure, and therefore allow me to read the proposed article first, and I will later say what the amendment to the Serbian Unity Party refers to. After Article 39, Article 39a is added, under which the public auction participant has the right to object to the legality of the proceedings carried out within eight days of the day of the auction. The complaint shall be submitted to the ministry responsible for privatisation tasks, which is required to decide on the objection within eight days of the date of receipt of the complaint. We are followed by a controversial position and we are making an amendment to it: "The act which decides on the objection is final. "We believe that this is the proposal of the legal text, Article 10. Proposal i.e. Article 39a of Article 3 of the basic law, withholding one of the basic human rights provided for in the International Convention on the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens. So, the possibility of judicial protection is being denied, so we suggest that instead of this third attitude, a new position is taking place which reads: "A decision by the Ministry of Privatisation objected to the detention of the proceedings carried out by a public auction participant may be initiated by an administrative dispute within 15 days of the date of receipt of the solution. "We do not see it logical for a public auction participant to be denied the possibility of court proceedings and that the whole procedure is practically ended by the decision of the competent ministry, which can also be illegal. As an argument more or for further argument that this amendment should be adopted, allow me to read to you the reasons why the Government has rejected this amendment. The reasons are said: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed solution does not exclude the possibility of the legality of the instrument of objection, as an individual act in the exercise of public authority, being decided by the competent court in the administrative dispute. "That means that nothing would bother this amendment of ours being incorporated into this article in the 10th century. 39a. For all this I have said, please and I suggest you adopt an amendment to the Serb Unity Party's parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26874	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Financial Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, particularly the debate in particular, this Article 11 and, above all, the amendment to Member of the 1st National MP Stevan Kesejić, says that you are in big trouble. Compositing in your majority in the next five or six hours will also result in whether this proposal by the law of Aleksandr Vlahovic, Minister of Economy (which he forgot) and privatisation, will be adopted. I suppose that sufficient awareness among the vast majority, and above all I think of the MPs of opposition political parties, will prevail to accept the amendment to the First National MP Stevan Kesejić, as my amendment to Article 11, talks about the Privatisation Agency. In this case, it will be pointless to continue to divulge this law at all, and then, finally, Aleksandar Vlahovic will realize that he will not be able to hold the monopoly over businesses in Serbia, which is yet to privatise as he has done so far, with privileged buyers, with the layoff of workers, while filling the budgets for your large affinities and budget items, which are measured by millions, i.e. the budget of billions of dinars. It will not be possible, as he has done so far, everything means under the condition that you accept this amendment, and above all, the amendment of fellow Kesajic to Article 1, to do what he did in Kragujevac, in a town where he fired 15,000 workers a year and a half ago, and then found one of the world's frauds from so-called "Blo World". His Emperor Company Malcolm Bricklin, to sign a pre-contract with him and arm him until the actual contract is signed, as I recall, by March 1st. He didn't care at all that the workers rebelled. He doesn't care that an MP from your MP group is charging for rat chases 7.5 times more expensive than a competent institution in the city would do. He is not surprised or concerned that workers have completely freed themselves from fear, and none of them are interested in the threats of Djindjic, Vlahovic, or that of Bozidar Djelic, any of you. Because workers know, as the whole of Serbia knows, that after the five-octobaric coup, when you entered factories, into state institutions, for managers in these large systems, you brought incompetent people, who have nothing to do with the economy and production, and therefore we find ourselves in a position to force the adoption of such a law and such a jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, which will have the exclusive right to sign a contract on the sale of enterprises. And he himself knows by which path to run, and for that reason they say that he is the most hated minister, and for me, and for the whole Serbian people who are hard to live, the whole government of Djindjic is hated, but he has a reputation for being the most hated...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26876	On the basis of article 101, I give notice of insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26877	You can also give me five warnings, but Mrs. Micic, if you read the daily press, which I suppose is also in your job description, since the Presidency of the Serbian Parliament and the duties of the President of the Republic implies that you are familiar with all that the executive, legislative and judicial authority does, the adoption of this amendment will make it impossible for Aleksandar Vlahovic, along with all his associates from the Privatisation Agency, to carry out such sales, as he announced several days ago in the daily press, to sell "Freedom" from Čačka, the "Stava" Group, and most important in the future, through the pro-longing of time for privatisation, Elektroprivrede Serbia. This would mean that in the hands of such a man and such people we give the entire property, generations in this country have created it, and they want the undomestic settlements, with great layoffs of workers and with the provision of opportunities for themselves, their privileges and functions, which will finance from the budget, and the budget deficit to the greatest extent of the company's sales.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26878	The word is from MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26879	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment should be accepted because it remains a legal solution in Article 41, which has been in force so far, and the conditions set out in that Article 41 should not be made worse, there is no need to reduce the value, especially the value of the privatisation entity. I don't know why the government of the Republic of Serbia is disturbed by the privatisation entity and why it excludes it from selling and signing the contract. The second thing, I don't know what kind of new business it's loaded on the finance minister, when he's more of his so-called so-called finance minister. the signature or prior signature is not a condition for the judicial overture of the sale contract, but a certified court contract is now being delivered to the Ministry of Finance. I don't know why the Agency, and in the light of the bill's proposal, it's not written at all, you give the right to sell and sign a contract, which is now and whether there's a privatisation entity at all. He's gone in law, he can't sell, he can't sign, no one can ask him anything. Now the street is one-way. Minister and customer, even if good friends are, even if the minister was or is now funded by the buyer, and even if the political structure that is privatising is funded and has to repay the debts, there is a new model of privatisation that will really prevent writings in the paper that privatisation is suspicious. So far, privatization has been done when they were not under the law, and now everything that is suspicious is entering the law and becoming a rule. We really won't be able to say that anything is suspicious to us when you put everything that's wrong into the law. We'd have a real right to file criminal charges and to be sued for insult. We will really insult you in the future if we say that privatisation is not by law and that we are suspicious, but privatisation will be unfair, unfair, rape in any case where you are personally interested in helping the buyer. I haven't read about the privatisation case where it's aided the employees of the privatization entity. You have not yet fulfilled all the obligations taken when you go to the workers who see the factory leaving them in return and when you make them a promise; or perhaps I should remind you how many months it is only for the workers of the car factory that the government of the Republic of Serbia has promised them. It's important to you at the moment when you're caught by the throat and pounding cars to make promises and escape to Belgrade and God no longer sees you where you came to bring good. Don't touch the Privatisation Act, implement the privatisation, but implement it so that neither the M.O.P., nor the D.A., nor the courts can call you. I will never call you for the privatisation you make in accordance with the law, but I will call you for fixed privatisations, fixed tenders and auctions, for phone calls of threatening content, for stopping at the participants' door in the tender or for whispering -- do you know who's interested in this? If a friend of the Prime Minister shows up at the tender and offers 1.5 euros, who else can go out on that tender? How come at night when both friends and enemies of the Prime Minister disappear? (President: I warn you of the time allowed to exceed and on the subject. If the Prime Minister is mentioned, everyone gives up and flees home to look after children.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26880	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26881	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, or some political parties have suddenly lost their courage and are now afraid of alleged phone calls, or something like that is not true, as they have participated in privatisation so far. Based on my personal experience, I claim that such a thing is not true, that there are no phone calls, that all privatisations are carried out in accordance with the law. During the afternoon debate, I called on the MPs to help us with any fact that we could improve the privatisation process, speed it up and to remove any irregularities that might exist. Any privatisation contract organised in this society is in the Republic's parliament. He can put MPs on the lookout, and everything else is a politically incorrect criticism that may make sense if foreign positions are considered, but there is no room in the economy. As far as the mentioned member is concerned, the question of the participation of the privatisation entity in the privatisation process, i.e. its appearance in the contract, is very complicated and is linked to the status of social property, i.e. the right to have social property. We, within our parliamentary club, had a debate on this very amendment, as one party to the parliamentary majority submitted an amendment that is going more or less in the same direction as this one. Citing the long legal practice -- that was followed by expert discussions ten years ago, in particular in 1992, there is a very good text published on the subject -- we have concluded that it is impossible for the subject of privatisation to appear in the process of signing the contract, because in that act it actually becomes the owner of the mentioned property, because it is thus defined if it is the subject of privatisation. We have also cited examples of obstruction of privatisation, just from management. This removes that kind of possibility. What's the role of the state here? The state is present through the agency, the agency is conducting privatisation. Does this mean that the state is practically the owner of state property? In all situations where the state must intervene in those segments, it is defined as responsible for the social property, not as the owner, but it is responsible. This responsibility gives rise to her right to participate in the process of changing that ownership. As for the examples mentioned in the "Red Flag", a factory that allegedly fails or is designed to degrade their value, I can say that the flag produced 1,700 cars in February, concluded an extraordinary contract with partners from Egypt on exporting 400 cars. Does this mean anything in the concept of the world industry, certainly not, but in light of what has been the characteristic of this factory for the past 12 years, certainly, because it is the largest monthly production since 1992. At the level of a year, it's 25,000 vehicles. At the level of exported vehicles, it's about 5,500. We don't think that's a little bit, that's a good step. As far as a foreign partner is concerned, I suggest you find a better one. The flag is not privatised, it forms a joint venture with a partner from abroad, at a time when Fiat is bankrupt, it sells "Alpha Romeo", "Folksvagen" and "Pezo" close their factories, "Renaissance" closes its factories in Turkey, "Dajce Telekom" owes 65 billion euros, French telecoms five billion euros, in one day the world's mega-companions, such as "Andron", "Voltkom", "Sveser". The economic reality is very different from the politicians who criticize us want to present. So Kragujevac workers should be offered an alternative. That alternative is - accept the conditions that have been defined jointly. These conditions are very clear: contracts have been signed, the restitution of the company is being made; but let's say that this company was not great the moment we chose the Republic Government in February; that in February 2001 1,700 cars were produced and exported to 400, even Egypt; that they were very bad business conditions and much greater obligations and that this factory had its chance if it continued with the policy being implemented today. Is there a better foreign partner? He didn't show. It may be our desire to be Mercedes, Audi, BMW, but they, gentlemen, are not interested in such a thing. For what? Because the technology process in the factory has been overcome, the problematic market and major obligations. It's our reality. This is a good trip and we'll stay on this road.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26882	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a minister, Mr. Alexander Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26883	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, it is completely tenorous to say, although it is explained in the opening statement that this is not the intention, that the government wants to throw out privatisation entities from the privatisation process. We have said very well what our intentions are by proposing this member of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. The signing of the contract is a legal act, where foreign signatories exchange mutual rights and obligations. Yesterday I said very clear rights, very clear obligations of the buyer and very clear rights and obligations of the Privatisation Agency. So far, none of the rights, none of the obligations, none of the obligations have been made, nor has he been given a privatization. From the legal point of view, is it necessary to sign a privatisation entity? Of course not, but that does not mean that the privatisation entity is eliminated from the privatisation process, since the privatisation entity is present from the very beginning until the end of this process. How? By conjecturing an investment programme, by conjecturing a social programme. I'm sorry if this is boring to repeat, but obviously you didn't understand what I said yesterday. By conceived, in addition to the social programme, other conditions that a potential buyer must accept. By participating in the tender commission and making a decision on who is the selected buyer with the best offer; by making another representative of the privatisation entity, on a proposal from representative trade unions, also taking part in the tender commission and making a decision on who the buyer is. By preparing auction documentation and attending auction, the Privatisation Entity shall act directly to realise the final stage of the auction privatisation. Then who eliminates the privatization subject? Nobody. Don't worry, the privatisations, despite this change, and the future will be completely public, completely transparent and you will again regularly, as you have so far, receive reports, regular monthly reports on the course of privatisation. You will get all the contracts and you will have opportunities, I hope, to come up with concrete arguments, not with one general story about the privatisation process in Serbia not going the way it was defined, first of all, by the basic principles of the law. I'll remind you once again, the basics of the law are: equality of potential customers, the public, transparency, the market that regulates the value of capital. As far as the flag is concerned, it's really grotesque to hear a mourner here crying for the fate of the flag, precisely from those who "the flag" in December 2000, when the government took this very responsible post in January 2001, led to that level that the production did not exist, that the flag was literally before bankruptcy. I'll remind you that last year, although someone will say that small production of the flag is 12,000 cars produced and sold, we have achieved a record production since 1992. Gentlemen, you've had the opportunity to restructure and solve the flag problem from 1993 to 2001, sell it and build a world car giant, and instead you've brought the flag down to the lowest possible level. The flag is working well today, coming down from the tape at least 100 cars a month. , lapus, 100 cars a day. [[growls]] When the flag works, it also works on May 21st, when the flag works on a whole series of co-operatives with 200,000 employees. When the pipeline works in Belgrade, the Rakovica engine industry works when the IMR works. Gentlemen, these capacities have led you to be at the lowest level of their development in history, and we are bringing them back, so that the state is responsiblely actively involved in their restructuring. The story of how the government interferes with the economy, how a command economy is created and that it needs to be left to the market, can be explained by these failed systems, by the wrong economic policy in the past. Of course there's no restructuring without direct state involvement. Therefore, by changing this member of the law, the privatisation entity participates even more in the privatisation process through all the bodies that I have previously listed. Finally, if you consider that the subject of privatisation, because he did not participate, is damaged in the realisation of the definition of the social programme, please state specifically where the buyer violated the obligations. I'll remind you one more time, you have a huge database that specifically monitors each individual privatisation together with the Agency. See what obligations customers made by privatizing...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26884	Mr. Minister, I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26885	I'm done. Compare with the realization. That's not hard. All we have to do is take the report, read it, and then discuss it on the basis of concrete acts and concrete information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26886	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelkovic and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Marko Culibrk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26887	The SPS has submitted an amendment to Article 11, although Minister Vlahovic has been trying to explain to us, I think he failed, we cannot accept the proposal that the company, management, employees and the entire social capital of the company is not being used in privatisation. We disagree that the company becomes just a mere sale facility by a government agency or government. We also think it is wrong to attack management in businesses, as well as not to extend the way in which businesses are privatised. That primarily refers to capitalization. I think the internal force in the company -- management, trade unions, social capital, ties between companies with ino-partners and partners from the country -- should be used and given the opportunity to take the company into their own hands, and not only depends on the privatisation agency. I have to say again, she's not even humanely capable of taking on such a burden on herself. We believe that the government and the Agency take too many risks on themselves and that they should share that with employees in the company. Also, we believe that first of all, this law freed us from dividing free shares from 60% to 30%. It would have been much better if the Agency had made a stock market, if actions had been distributed to free workers as it had been and that the price of these shares and capital was determined through the market in a way to ensure that privatisation is implemented as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26888	Thank you. The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26889	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I simply cannot understand that with this much perseverance and energy, our distinguished Mr. Vlahovic is trying to convince us that we are wrong when we submit amendments to the amendments to the Law on Privatisation. We're not exactly right about anything. We suggest that he buys an estimated company with a labour consortium, not to go to auctions, not to compete, and you refuse. We're telling you, the Agency can't sell social capital, because it's not the owner and it's not authorized under any law, and you say, you can't accept that amendment. We tell you, make it possible for these company workers who are restructured to own any percentage of shares, and you say they can't in these companies, there's no capital. It is as if companies can be restructured without workers and workers, i.e. experts themselves, are not the capital of enterprises. We're telling you, it's no good to cut the auction board members from five to three members, we're saying there should be at least two representatives of the current unions in the company; you say, you can't, ask the union, they agree. Let's read the union letter and see that they disagree, but you're persistent. Top of the line, you say, there's no reason for a privatizing company to be a signer of a contract to sell that company. Where is it in the world that one who sells is exclusively the subject of sales, that workers be the subject of sales, that they be classical goods, and that's not according to Marks, even though Minister Vlahovic called on him one day. It's impossible, people, to make a consensus on that, unless there's a third party. The agency represents the state, the buyer represents the capital that buys the company, and the authorised person of the company must represent a privatisation entity, which must not only be the subject of all this. Why, gentlemen, can't it be an object? Because we have the sale of 70% of the capital, 30% of the capital is normally owned by employees, who under this law have the right to free shares. Is there anyone here convinced that those 30% of the workers are absolutely nothing, that they can't be on the commission and that they can't sign the contract, if for no other reason, to verify one legal store that happened in the sale process, that someone became the owner, that it was all about Kay by law, sign that third party, and I don't see any problem in all of this, if that's what they want to think about in a way that is in the interest, if you want, and accelerated privatisation. Joco, you're a communist. I can watch whatever you want, colleague Marinkovic, but this is the truth. And I don't see why so much energy is being invested that everything that we're proposing here today for this pay phone is, in the best sense, even to speed up privatisation, to increase the price of the selling entities, you're simply easily refusing, with an explanation that just doesn't stand. Please, Mr. Minister, think a little bit more and accept the fact that there are three sides in this business after all. You said the Agency, and we challenged it. All right, you didn't accept that. It's the Agency, let it close the deal, you have a buyer, it's okay, of course it has to be a buyer. What about those who sell, it's not dead capital, it's not just about selling, there are some people out there who have to represent and who have to verify the situation in all this. Its right to participate in privatisation, and it certainly does so if it has an initiative at the beginning of privatisation. The contract only needs to determine whether what they said at the beginning in documents, in acts and public ads is fulfilled. So that's the essence of signing a privatisation entity. If you, under the privatisation entity, exclusively involve the director of a social enterprise, who, possibly by your idea, will abuse the whole story, it's something else. Under privatisation, I do not mean him, but at least those 30% shares, or workers who are owners of these actions and under this law. Although, you say up to 30%, but we'll talk about it later. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26890	The People's Messenger Cedomir Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stevan Ž. Gudurić, and the Messenger of the people Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26891	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that there is no such solution anywhere, because there is no social property anywhere. There are no problems we face when we try to transform social property. Who owns social property? Is that the subject of privatisation? It's not true, it's not, under any law, and it's not responsible for the state it's in, but for every problem it's looking for a solution to one who doesn't have any ownership rights. We are talking today about social property surpassed even by those of us who invented this concept. A privatization entity cannot be involved in the sale because it is not the owner. If he were the owner, he could define his status, his rights and say, "I don't want to sell myself." The agency doesn't own it, but she's responsible for it. That's the only truth. The agency, the government, parliament is responsible for the fate of privatisation and transformation of social property. It's out of that responsibility that our right to be. Since responsibility is great, the right must be in line with that. It's the only logical analogy. If we're going to help the workers get their property, we'll speed up the privatisation. Fast privatisation is the shortest way to own them. Then they will be able to say that the subject of privatisation, when they have action in their hands. Otherwise, if we keep our current status, we're going to have problems today, and we're going to be responsible, as the government is responsible for Bor, and in no way can intervene in Bora, it can't carry out business policy, it can't affect what's happening in that company, but it has to answer. She has to answer for the Jumko, who, under the old law, became a firm that had nothing to do with the government, and the government should not answer for it. Why are we responsible? We are responsible for the lives of these citizens, and that is why we interfere in these situations, trying to find a solution. We're not even officially responsible for the flag, but last year as a state, we singled out a billion and 700 million to solve the problems that lie ahead. From where? Where's the government's responsibility for this company? Where's the responsibility for Bor? Where's the responsibility for all that's gone down and down companies in the country today? Where's the responsibility for Sartid, for the two billion debts we inherited? We have to change that and solve it. In the privatisation process, we have faced real problems, which are being eliminated by these amendments and the changes we are proposing today. Therefore we insist - in the privatisation process one side is the customer and the other is the Agency. She's responsible for the privatisation. This responsibility is transferred from parliament and government, and in the final sense, we are looking for results. Those results will be serious if we're in this business seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26892	The word has a folk MP, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26893	All these powers that absolutely exclude that so-called. The subject of privatisation, I don't know what a beautiful name it is, but let it be, and so much is still in force today in the existing law, and now it's not just in these changes. We should remember that someone made this unfortunate or happy social property. It wasn't made by the state, it wasn't any government. Not everything in this country was before World War II, so it's nationalized and it needs to be returned. He did something after World War II, so it's his. He made a worker of the Beician cement factory in 1960, one rotational furnace, in 1967, the second one, in 1973 to 1987, made the third one. It was not made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Government of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina or the SFRY. It was made by workers. Like this, they should count on them not to exist. It can't be that they don't exist. And there's a solution to that. It was easier to make one law -- nationalize everything that's social; then you share whatever you want, sell to whoever you want, and no one can do anything; but you need to have that thing and come here and propose such a law; squeeze the loop. As the minister said yesterday, a strategic partner, or that customer, because he says, we've operated on a strategic partner; at the cementist, yes, and whoever thought to buy the candy can buy it. If it's not worth anything, then he can buy them for whom it comes down to, and cements are very important, so he has to strategize and he has to have someone who makes so much and so much cement, and the sugar can buy the one that only has sugar to cook coffee. All I'm saying yesterday and today is facts, that's the whole problem. The Beician cement factory was in the winter remont before the factory was sold, which in some normal time was always a practice to work, invested 10 million marks in its reconstruction, which they do every year, but it's such a process of production. She also invested more than two million marks in the construction and equipment of a commercial building, which now holds Mr. Turetski, who is now head of the factory. Don't sit in the old building, it's nicer in this new one, I accept it's nicer. So it's gonna be like there's something I've done there. Let's get rid of that cement store, so let's take October 16th, a construction firm in Beocino, built for seventy-seven years. That's what I asked you, Mr. Minister, what we're going to do with the GG firms of the 1970s, who, because of their private money, have gone into social property without any damage. In that room, you say, you all go home, and I sell 70%. By what right? Where do you have that in the West, where you studied, that you could sell yourself as a social one? (Dragisa Marinkovic, from the place: Why are GG companies? ) Because people, Marinkovic, were taking out of their pockets and buying aces, shovels, mixers, and building a company. That's what it was called, some of you are young so they don't know what it is, but they did come into a situation to break it up, and they don't know what it is. I have to make my proposal clear yesterday. I said I would vote for these changes and additions to two resolutions -- when this or that finance minister gave me the money that belongs to Beocino, because no one can steal it; and, in the other solution, when the minister brought one who left Lafarza, as agreed, got 30,000 euros for severance. I'm not talking about some of the factories and some of the others who got a lot more. They don't get into this quota.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26894	The word has a privatisation minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true that in December 2001 about 9,800,000 marks were invested in the remont of cement, which was regularly refinanced from short-term banking sources, not from its own funds. On the other hand, I'll give you some data - Cementar Beocin produced about 850,000 tons of cement in 2001, so when she was a social firm. In 2002, Cementara from Beocin produced over a million tons of cement. What's grotesque, it produced more than a million tons of cement from less workers than it produced 850,000 tons in 2001, before privatisation. Secondly, what you should know, despite many attempts to privatise the Beocinski cement factory, is that there are reportedly dissatisfactions of employees, trade unions, managements -- these privatisations were made according to all world standards, respecting this law and without any affairs, which was usually a regular feature of the privatisation of cementists in other countries in central Europe. Third, management at the Beocinska cement factory, which was before privatisation, is still in the lead post and after privatisation. This means that it is not true that the new owner, by definition, comes and replaces the existing leadership. It changes where it is proven that this former leadership was involved in stealing, in economic crime, replacing incompetently, if it cannot achieve and raise the company's profitability. Or better yet, in Cementar in Popovac before privatisation, dozens of creditors came with the decision of the Kragujevac Trade Court to prey on machines. Please, hundreds of complaints with executive judgments went to Cementari Popovac, and she produced no more than 550,000 tons of cement (I speak for 2000), and in 2001 (only you laugh, it happened when you sat on this side and were responsible for those cements), when the government introduced a forced administration, production rose to 850,000 tons of cement. Today, this production is one million tons of cement after privatisation and again with fewer employees. Yesterday, I said who remained sick after the privatisation of Popovac -- the others were saddened by those who systematically robbed Popovac, making contracts for the supply of raw materials, repromation, at a price that was 30-40%, even twice the market price. Yesterday I told you, my dear ladies and gentlemen, that after privatization, the customer sent a message to Cementar Popovac to all suppliers to reduce their purchase price by 30% or cancel the purchase unless they agreed to it. And yesterday I told you, 99% of them said we agree to supply you at lower prices. So how much was going on in that cement store, how much was going on in all the social enterprises that were out of control? Now I call upon you to tell me from a legal point of view -- what rights and obligations do the privatisation entity draw by placing the signature on the purchase contract to these other parties? If this is the case, as one MP noted, that the signature should confirm that what was previously agreed is true, and this is about the statement, not the signing of the contract, my ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, do not worry about privatised enterprises. Privatised enterprises are the engine of development of the Serbian economy and our goal is to bring as many previously ruined companies as possible to their feet, enable them to be ready for the competition. Our goal is for our companies, privatized, to be part of the world market economy, and that as much as possible by direct investment, by developing small and medium-sized enterprises, we create new jobs for those unemployed, those millions, as you say, and not a million but 900,000, which you left behind in 2000. Nine hundred thousand unemployed -- it is, among other things, the core of the previous government, and those nine hundred thousand should find their new jobs, plus those who today in the social economy have only jobs, don't receive salaries, don't get paid pensions, don't get paid socially, and don't have a job. The fact that they don't have jobs, and they have jobs, is also the core of the previous "great economic policies".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26896	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26897	I think we should set up a committee to replace the president of the assembly when it is established that he is unable to do his job. This minister should have been stopped several times. First of all, he didn't talk about the subject at all, secondly, and the bloc accused everyone who ever, anywhere sitting on this side, who he calls the foreign government, thirdly, of time, fourthly, of strangling us with the same lesson over and over again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26898	Go back to the subject, you've got a word to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26899	Minister, ask us, we may have learned this, and go on, don't stand on the first lesson, but you have spoken falsely, not to tell the truth, Mr. Minister. It was not the government of the Republic of Serbia that took over the car factory in Kragujevac in January, but in October 2000 with automatic rifles. So, when you're already talking about someone from some parliamentary groups being afraid of phone calls (that's what Mr. Jovanovic said), why is the government of the Republic of Serbia afraid to run a car factory, why is Kragujevac run the Democratic Party and the car factory the Democratic Party of Serbia? Why didn't you take responsibility, that the Democratic Party, as the strongest party in DOS, runs a car factory, but you gave one nameless and unknown party, gave a party that had a fight a month ago and brought to the edge of the car factory, gave to a party who had appointed a member of the Management Board of Men.....
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26900	Please return to the subject, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26901	That's what I just heard from the discussion of the predecessors. How can they not be reminded of what they said and warn me when I answer? You gave the car factory to a man who charged his services seven times more, and he was a member of the Management Board. The question arises, when he is already fleeing the hall, and in prisons across Serbia, did he charge his services seven times more expensive? And that's what we're getting at. That, Minister, is a concern for the economy. The predecessor mentioned a billion and I don't know how many hundreds of millions in a year invested in the flag. Well, in 1999, we invested three billion in production in a car factory in the war of 1999, when it was the hardest, and that year the most cars were produced. Two thousand years we've been producing... Minister, tell us what production was in December, November and October last year. Don't pick up a bunch of cars for me, and you say, "These are manufactured this month." The contract with Egypt is long-term, it's an old renewed contract, of course, four hundred Zastava cars can always sell to Egypt whenever there are. Don't tell me you're influential in the Arab world, so you've provided car factories with a special contract. It's not true, it's a transfer contract. But now I'm asking you about this member of the bill -- why is there no signature of the finance minister; why is it that (until today, if this law passes) a condition for the court contract to be signed by the finance minister, and why is the finance minister just getting to know himself? Is it just a confirmation provision that the extra profit tax is paid? If it's a provision, why was it abolished? Have you finally informed us by this bill that the extraprofit in the Republic of Serbia has stopped? If that's true, give us the data to see how much was charged, from whom, whether all the disputes were over; the state was charging extraprofits and those who weren't extra-profits. And then I could say -- here's finally one law that's done, fulfilled, by which everyone filed reports and fulfilled all their obligations. To keep it only recorded, I'm not against privatisation at all. We have no salvation without privatisation, but if any move is necessary, do not enforce it by force, without proper legal regulations and do not mention 900,000 unemployed, under sanctions and blockade. Tell us how much that number has increased since you've been in power, and I say in a few months we'll have 1,800,000 unemployed, exactly double what you found when you came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26902	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here is the word of the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26903	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the Soviet Parliament group has tabled an amendment to Article 11. Proposal for a law on privatisation or, more specifically, Article 11(3). The draft law states: "The contract under Article 1 is certified in court and delivered to the Ministry of Finance Affairs for registration. "We of the SSJ believe that this form of this position in this article is practically defined only by the place of operation, not by which the entity performs the operation, so we propose an amendment that this position reads: "The examination of the contract under Article 1 is carried out by the court and by official duty, within 15 days, by the Ministry of Finance's office, for the purposes of recording". I do not want to believe that the Government, as well as the committees responsible, before they make a decision on whether to accept any amendments or not, decide only on the basis of who is from which parliamentary groups, or from which this amendment comes. However, there are indications that that too. This is particularly reflected in the government's reasoning, which is why it does not accept this amendment. It is said in the explanation - the amendment is not accepted because the issue relating to the regulation of a deadline within which the competent court would be obliged to carry out an overrun of a contract on the sale of capital, i.e. assets under official duty, cannot be subject to the regulation of the privatisation law. It is obvious that this amendment has not been read well enough. In any case, it should also be taken into account when reading amendments and interpretations, i.e. some of the signs in force in the spelling. So let me once again read our amendment -- "The examination of the contract under Article 1 is carried out by the court and by official duty, within 15 days, is delivered to the Ministry of Finance Affairs, in order to record it." This means that in no case did we want this amendment to prescribe a deadline within which the court is obliged to verify the contract, but a deadline within which the court is obliged to deliver it to the competent ministry. Because the wording itself -- it's certified in court, or -- it's delivered, it doesn't leave any doubt. Whether or not an overa in court and an overa in the court hall, when signed, when the parties sign this contract of capital, and it is known that the court has an authorised official and that the court, under official duty, is to deliver this contract to the Ministry for registration. Although the minister is not present right now, I ask Mr. Minister to read our amendment carefully, accept it, because it is logical and precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26904	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Vlatko Sekulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26905	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you'll allow me to make a few remarks on the ongoing presentation of examples relating to individual businesses and unemployment. We have witnessed that for more than a decade, the atmosphere of demagogy, lying to citizens, workers, and so on has ruled in our society. Such a policy has always bothered me, and the Social Democratic Party can only state that it cannot accept demagogy. The simple truth is this: if we are talking about the unemployed in this country, we have this problem because in the early 1990s, in the early 1990s, a policy of breaking the economic system of Serbia, which had to lead to an enormous number of unemployed, which is about 900,000 officially registered and still about 800,000 hidden unemployed, those who formally have jobs and essentially do not work. Privatisation does nothing but bring out this terrible truth. Therefore, we cannot now blame privatisation for producing unemployment. It's not true, it's just establishing what's already an actual situation. And if we're talking about the flag, please excuse me, the flag produced nearly 200,000 cars a year in the late '80s. Its capacities are projected on 200,000 cars. In 1997, she produced 2,215 cars. What are we talking about? I mean, if someone had already wanted to take care of the flag, then they should have taken care of it in the early '90s, and not now to rebel when his policy led to the fact that this factory, among many others, was completely destroyed. So that's the basic truth. We, like other parliamentary groups, are back on the subject of this amendment now, received a letter from the Independent Union of Serbian Unions and others, but I must say that we are not engaged in demagogy, their certain requirements have been implemented in the amendments and some of these amendments have been accepted by the ministry, some have not. The specific question of the privatisation entity; it is true that it sounds illogical for one of the signatories to be a privatisation entity, because it simply does not assume any rights or obligations; however, in our opinion, this third signature, i.e. protection of employees in the privatisation entity, should be executed for a simple reason - in order to preserve the legitimacy of the whole process; that in a few months, since employees or workers are not questioned, since they do not have mechanisms to protect their rights, it then returned to the government, the ministry, to all of us, because simply people will not be satisfied with how the privatisation process is going. That is why we are experiencing this third signature not as a particular legal formula for which someone acquires rights and obligations, but as a lever that protects certain rights, and these rights are defined not only by that member but also by other members in which the rights of the privatisation entity are defined, from the initiation of the initiative, the preparation of the documentation, etc. Therefore, on the other hand, it does not need to be exaggerated that this article fully depends on their rights. There are other members where their rights are defined, but our fear is that, by removing that third signature, no bear service is provided to the ministry itself or to the government itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26906	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26907	Mrs. Komic, dear colleagues and colleagues, just a few more words on the amendment to Article 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act. It seems that the previous debate, which has been going on for hours, has shown that this question is, I'm afraid, rhetorical. For us, the SDP and the Social Democratic Party MPs here, that's not rhetorical, that's a real question. The real question is whether the privatisation entity, i.e. the employee, will be found in this process in an active role or whether only a particular member will be satisfied with the form, not the essence. Since we have always been interested in essential reforms and changes, the first thing we have done has been addressed to the unions, which are our natural allies, to consult them on key things in these changes, we have received support in some things, and in some we disagree. My colleague Sekulovic mentioned that today we received a letter of warning from the Independent Union in which I hope, on good faith, once again draws attention to Article 6, Article 11 and some other members of the amendment and addition of this law. It's important for us to find a solution. I suppose this is also important for the restoring ministry, and especially for Minister Vlahovic, who is heartily defending his bill. For us there may be a solution to ensure sustainability, reliability and, to me, an unfavorable word but true, transparency of the privatisation process. Secondly, to ensure not only the position of employees in the body is actually relevant for the privatisation process, and it is called the tender commission, but that employees' interests are realistically achieved in the privatisation process. Third, to find together what is called a positive approach to reform, where privatisation is crucial. That's what we agreed on, I think, all of us, that without this process we won't go far without transforming society into private property as dominant. From here we propose, I ask Minister Vlahovic to declare immediately on this point, that the 30-day regulation clearly defines how employees are represented in the privatisation process, in the tender commission, what is its composition, who, in the tender commission, are employed and who are of course the very powers. If you come out to meet us, then we show a very good will to perhaps give up our amendment proposal. Mr. Vlahovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26908	The word has a minister of economy and privatisation in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26909	I thank indeed the Social Democratic Party for its constructive contribution and discussion, which we had before the Assembly was held, since indeed the intensity and intention in this regard was to ensure and ensure the participation of the entity in the privatisation process, not its mere participation in the signing of the contract, where the legal purpose is indeed lost. Therefore, I want here in public, public and, of course, to all those who are watching us, and also to you here, to confirm that we will carry out the exact same practice of tender privatisation in the future, which means that one representative of the representative trade unions will be a member of the tender commission in the process of this part of privatisation. However, so far, one member of the tender commission, proposed by representative unions, has been more of a gentlemen's agreement to the ministry with all three trade unions. Here I declare that the tender privatisation regulation will be changed within a month and that, officially and officially, workers through their representative trade unions will certainly get one seat on the tender commission, with our intention that the number of members in the tender commission, not only from companies, but also from local self-government, will always be at least majority, and wherever there are opportunities and more than three members should be present in the tender commission. Finally, our intention is for the future and for the presidents of the tender committees not only to be members of the government, because there really is no point in being a member of the Government's board of directors, but also to be people from the municipality, from the company under which the privatisation process is being carried out. Therefore, consider it safe that your initiative will be accepted through an amendment to the Regulation implementing the tender privatisation procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26910	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26911	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has a principled objection to the overauthority of the Privatisation Agency, particularly apostrophyd by these amendments and additions to the law. In particular, Article 12 of the amending and supplementing the new Article 41b provides that the funds resulting from the sale of capital in the privatisation process are to be paid to the Agency. The funds of the 1st member's position, following the settlement of sales costs in the privatisation process, are paid into the payment account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Obviously, this is about a very illogical provision. In this case, the Agency, regardless of the importance of its role, shall assume the right to the total amount in the name of the privatisation. To remind you, the Agency was founded by law as independent of the Government and other state bodies, and therefore it is surprising to introduce such a provision. We have not submitted an amendment to Article 1 since it is said there that the Agency is selling capital, i.e. property, because it can happen to be for someone else's account, on behalf of someone else's name, etc., so we left there the possibility that it could fit into legal norms. It is also intended for Article 6 to be agreed by the Agency to amend an individual and collective contract. We have commented on this with our amendment, but the government has remained deaf to this issue, and that amendment has been rejected. Our amendment to Article 12 says funds from the sale of capital should come at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and of course the Agency has the right to claim for its expenses. The explanation for the refusal of this amendment is very ignorant. It is said that the budget in its plan and projection does not have that amount. Only the Agency's resources are provided for. However, the budget cannot exactly have a certain number it expects from privatisation, so that this explanation certainly does not stand and we believe that if there is a host in this house, and this should be the Government given all the powers it has, and that the main budget is the budget, the funds should come into the budget of the Republic, while the Agency, as a secondary body, performs operational tasks, and can charge its services. In fact, this kind of attitude raises the question of the Agency's authority. The agency puts itself in the position of the seller, and here we return to the topic just now debated here. So it turns out that we have double traffic, that first we have traffic from the privatisation entity to the Agency, and then the Agency sells it to the buyer. At the beginning, when the Privatisation Act was passed, we on one committee, discussing it, commenting on the following situation: if the funds are already going to the budget and the state is practically taking funds from the sale, then it is very logical to say that it is already state property, so perhaps by decree it was necessary to convert social property into state property and thus dispose of it. It'd be a lot simpler, there wouldn't be this much procedure. That remark was said to be too radical, too sharp and to have elasticity. However, all of this has led to a more complicated situation. We've got the Agency involved in all these procedures that aren't simple at all. The responsibility of the authorised person in the Agency, i.e. the Director of the Agency, is raised when those huge funds come to his expense. Whether he has an obligation, we have no sanctions on this member, that he has to transfer the money to the budget. At a time when every penny in the budget is very important, we have a situation that can happen a day, two, five or a month's money stays in the Agency's account. It's, you'll agree, non-domestic, because we have no obligation to transfer the funds within a certain time limit to the budget. In the end, whether it is a mistrust with the finance and economy minister, whether or not the Prime Minister and others have lost confidence in the finance minister, so they want to have these money before they come under the supervision of the finance minister. The Soviet Union believes that this amendment of ours has every basis and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26912	The word is issued by MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26913	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the SSJ has submitted this amendment and, as Mr. Lukic explained, it is necessary to accept it for very practical reasons. Namely, the Agency established by the Privatisation Act has only been tasked with carrying out technical tasks in connection with the sale of social enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. Allowing the Agency to retain money in its giro account from the sale of an undertaking in this way raises doubts that the excess value of these pairs can be created, i.e. that these funds can be interested illegally. If we know that business banks today have a monthly interest rate of 1.5 to 2%, and here, selling some companies is a very large number of figures, you can figure out how many of these figures the Agency can get, and there are no sanctions for that, in case for a certain period of time, a month or two, you don't transfer money from the sale of a company to the budget. During that time, the budget, in order to close some holes and fill in some social or other contributions, may have to be in debt to other business banks and to pay interest, so the state has double damage, and maybe individuals benefit. I really don't want to suspect that individuals will do it, but this way, if they stay this member, they create doubt and the possibility of doing it. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I'd just like you to listen, since you're repeating yesterday's story about Cementara Popovac. You said and I believe that production inputs are reduced by about 30%. I'm asking a logical question, as a man long in the economy, and you've probably been in the economy for a long time, is it possible that if the cost of producing a bag of cement is reduced by a third, that the price of that bag of cement to the buyer is not reduced by one percent? What's this about, where's the money? (A voice from the O.R.: Profit. Did we bring this foreign buyer into our country to profit from the backs of these poor workers? For this reason and for many reasons, Mr. Minister, the SS cannot support the profits you bring aside.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26914	The word is from MP Stevan Gurudic, authorised representative of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26915	It's not my fault the minister comes out for a pay phone every time after me, so I have to come over and tell him something else. The SSJ amendment is very logical. When the agency story began in this congregation, we understood that it was some service to the ministry to work. Then it would be logical for that money to come into the budget, that the Agency would submit its cost, so that it would be charged. This is how she takes the money, how much she needs, and what's left, let's go to the budget, let's have it there. It's very simple, if you want to say peasant interpretation, it's just very logical that that's the case. If someone's a service, then he turns out to be a coster, and he doesn't take the money, and he shares whose money it is. Minister, if we were to understand each other, it doesn't matter how those 10 million marks were invested, but if those 10 million marks hadn't been invested then, your French wouldn't have made a million tons. I'll tell you, since I've been living in Beocino for 50 years, the largest production of these cement plants will almost not be reached. She was just a million and 700 thousand tons, so this million is like making kids at a party. And let me tell you, there won't be any Hans, George or Pierre coming to Beoczyne to teach us how to make cement. There's a cement made for 160 and a change of years. You know, it wasn't the cement from the Holci, the Heidebeth cement, the Lafarza, Titan, made by the Panamanian and Sueki canal, it was made from Beocino, by chance, because it's a cement brand, the quality of the ore that's best. So you can't talk here about what's going on in Beocino. And I continue to invite you to come there, to really see what you're talking about. I've lived there for 50 years and it's hard for all 250 MPs here to talk to me about Beocino, because no one in Beocino is. Neither can you, who have never been in it, with me to lie about Beocin and be right. It is certain that privatisation is necessary. No one has challenged that from this pay phone all these days, but some other things are very controversial. Thus, it is hard for this law to drink water in this congregation today. I guess my exposure makes it clear I'm not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26916	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26917	To finally say that it's always been a pleasure to go to Beocin, the Beocian cement factory, because they have a very good restaurant called Karash. (loud from the O.R.: Who? Ask Mr. Steve. I was also when the director was Mr. Copkov and before him was the late director of Mr. Sherban. I've been in the last 15 years at least 10 times at the Beocian cement factory. I know that the potential potential of the Beicino cement factory is 1.9 million tonnes a year, and I know that at the end of the 1980s they had investment plans, though, never happened, that capacity rose to 1.9 million tonnes, which is not only a plan for capacity in the factory, but also a plan to discover new sites in the area of the Rakovac monastery. I know the factory in the past produced 1.4 and once, not 1.7 million tons, but 1.5 million tons. You document me if it's 1.7, I know it never happened. Today's capacity is 1.25 million tons. So, Beocin, like all other companies, I know very well, and I didn't, as one MP said yesterday, for 10 years he was out of this country. On the contrary, not in the last 10 years, I've been in this country for the last 40 years, and in the last 15 years I've met a bunch of businesses in the territory of all Serbia, and I know very well what they were in, as well as what they're in right now. To take advantage of the opportunity, since I answered the word, so I should ask critics of the new privatisation model when they say the one was great -- why they as directors of social enterprises, still social enterprises, and today they sit in the Serbian Parliament, did not take advantage of the old model, so they privatised their companies. I won't name names, they'll recognize themselves. Therefore, all I was saying was absolutely correct, and that there was a systematic robbery of cements in Popovac and the purchases were constantly negotiated at 25-30% higher and several times larger. It is true that, gentlemen, the market that determines the value of each commodity is the value of cement. The price of cement in Serbia is among the lowest prices in the region. Check the price in Romania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every company that owns its owner takes care to cut costs to do business as best as possible. When the company works better, it's good for the state, for local self-government, for those workers. Social enterprises, since they had no owner, had no one to worry about reducing the cost of production. That's why we're doing not one cent of Popovac, but 90% of social enterprises are working in a way that they don't care about the cost of production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26918	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26919	I point out the injuries of the 97th and 99th members. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you that these are not the premises of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and it is the session of the National Assembly. I'd like to remind you of the quotes why I object to you. Two days ago, I was denied the right to a replica of the minister, and I was told that he explained that the minister could not challenge the replica. Now I ask you, Mrs. Comic, on what basis the minister has now spoken. If he used the right to receive the word whenever he asked for it, then he had to respect Article 99(1), which reads: "The speaker can only speak about the subject on the agenda". If the minister, as he did, said he was going out to replicate, I remind you of a member of 97 who speaks of the right of the MP to the line, not of the right of the speaker or of the right of the minister of replica. Please, Mrs. Comic, remind Mr. Minister not to strangle us, not to abuse this pay phone, not to use it to deal with the former regime, especially those who enjoyed the regime and especially not this minister, because he criticises the privatisation done before him under his law, according to the law he wrote. I think it's time, Mrs. Comic, for you to take over this National Assembly, because it's obvious that the acting president of Serbia can't do that. If you take over, and I know that from now on, you will warn all of us who are violating the Rules of Procedure, including Mr. Secretary. In this room if no one has the right to violate the Rules of Procedure, the least right is by the minister. At least the rights. Don't interpret our rudeness or our ignorance when we insist that we get the word, since we know that before us the word on the same basis was received by ministers. If the MPs can't come out for a pay phone, neither can the ministers. By the way, the ministers in the government, so there let each other replicate and speak to each other whatever they want. When they come to the National Assembly, they will respect the National Assembly and honor the Messengers of the people. I will respect every minister who speaks here on the agenda, and if you give him the right to speak beyond the agenda point, I cannot believe you'll have the nerve to deny me or any other MP's right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26920	The Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia received his word on the basis of Article 137. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not and cannot receive a word like that for the sake of the replica. So, Article 137. The content of your remarks on whether or not both the Minister and the MPs speak about the agenda is freedom of argument for this topic. I can only exchange with you a personal surprise as to why the Beochinian cement factory is the subject of an amendment to the Privatization Act, when we all know that the factory is privatized. It's an argument used by MPs, and apparently by the minister. The minister can't get a replica, because he's here to respond, not replicate. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to article 12? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Novica Djuraskovic and Zoran Boskovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please, in the name of the applicant, the amendment has the People's MP Zoran Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26921	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we decided to withdraw the amendment we gave, not because of shortening the time of the debate, but because Minister Vlahovic gave firm confidence that he would meet it and that he would use his authority to get 50% of the money in Vojvodina. I am sorry that Mr. Vlahovic is not here to confirm this in front of this assembly. But Article 21 regulates what we're looking for, so we pulled the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26922	I find that by withdrawing the amendments, he ceases to be the subject of discussion in particular. National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted to the 12th amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Radic Jokovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srda Popovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is wanted and held by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26923	The solution from Article 13 is very interesting for the debate, not only with the Minister of Privatisation, but should involve several other ministries at least here and give us an answer to the question, why we privatise the subjects with the majority state capital. Here, we've been listening all the time from the minister's explanation, and he's saying that our desire is to have a title holder without a titlemaker. Apparently, social property is nobody's property. It is true that it is equal under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia with other forms of property, but, behold, we are violating the Constitution, we want to privatise it, we set a deadline for it, and since there is a political will for most of the political factors in the country, here, this privatisation will pass. But on what basis was it inserted into article 13 of the provision to privatise the entity with the majority held capital? Is this a sign that we're on our way to privatizing state property? Whether privatisation of state property is regulated by some other laws, such as property laws owned by the Republic of Serbia or what the law is called. Which objects you've focused on and what's interesting about your friends now, but he's bothered that it's the majority capital of the state. To banalise the whole story in the debate in principle, I asked, when you privatise the building of the National Assembly, will the current composition of the parliamentary groups participate in the grant of free action? If you privatize the government building in Germany's 11, will the Prime Minister be given action without compensation, according to an internship he has both in Germany and here? If you're privatizing the MUP, will you change the police composition for the night and bring in some to be rewarded? Here you really owe us an explanation - why did the privatisation entity that has the majority government capital suddenly become the subject of privatisation? Whether the privatisation law is passed so that the state property, which has a titler or maybe we don't have a state, may have been something this morning until I was in the Serbian Parliament, may have finally destroyed our country. Maybe now it's state property without a titlemaker. Let us know that we know because we have other jobs. I need one conviction from the state, and I'd run to get it out while there's still a state. Who knows who's going to give us those beliefs later and in which language? So I ask you to explain to us which objects are thought of or this is a general provision, whether the Republic of Serbia is moving to privatise state property and whether we need a whole new law or just one provision of three lines, only one position in a member of the already existing Privatisation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26924	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26925	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minister told us where he's been living for the last 40 years, but I'm very interested in where he's going to live when this government falls, and May 29th is approaching. I have submitted an amendment to Article 14, and there have been a lot of words during this debate both in principle and in particular, as regards the speed of implementation of privatisation. There was a so-called so-called law in the current law. a stimulating scheme, which determined the percentage of free actions, and as regards the deadlines in which privatisation is conducted. Such a stimulating scheme, Mr. Minister now abolishes and says everyone can get 30% of the stock without compensation. With this amendment, I even wanted that time of implementation of privatisation to begin from the date of adoption of this law, not from the beginning of privatisation, because the start of privatisation is not about the law. By the way, it seems to me that this government has no intention of carrying out a quick privatisation, as they have so far advocated. The biggest problem for quick privatisation is, according to some of my colleagues, the environment in which our society is now located, for which the government of the Republic of Serbia is solely responsible. The environment is such that often privatisation entities and workers fear privatisation itself and even the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because if they set out with such legal proposals in privatisation, they would have a short period of time for over a million unemployed. This in any case raises their authority, and they themselves are guilty and responsible for it. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted the draft labour law to this assembly, this assembly adopted it, although by voting from Thessaloniki, but the law gives the employer unlimited rights, and to the workers of none, the employer of any obligation, so it would be the turn of the state, since it has not given the employer, to accept on itself. Also, you don't have a serious social programme to take care of technological surpluses, and you don't even have serious unions to represent the interests of workers. Mr. Minister said this was done with the consent of the three largest unions in Serbia. No wonder, because in all three unions of October 5, people are close to DOS. In this case, the best example was Minister of Labour, Mr Milovanovic, who was even president of the Association of Independent Unions, so he became a minister and was replaced by his colleague, and now my colleague, president and association, a National MP in the Serbian Parliament and supports this government. I ask you -- what is this independent and independent union that supports this government? It's incompatible. Such a union can work not in the interest of trade unions and union members, but solely in the interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia and that is its sole purpose. The third reason why you gave up such a quick privatisation is because you quickly sold for small money everything that was worth in the Republic of Serbia. Now there's been a sale of what's hard to sell and you're trying every way to compensate for the lack of what you've sold out. The best example for this is so many times mentioned Beocinska cementar, for which Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Jorvanka Tabakovic, a member of the Serbian Radical Party, has achieved 50% higher price than the same buyer you have achieved. If my predecessor could achieve better conditions, and I don't respect those if I can't do better, but accept worse conditions, I would resign, as I recommend to Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26926	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? National MP Veroljub Arsic said that you are a national MP and a union activist, it is not a basis for replication, it is a finding. The word is from MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've all advocated privatisation. We used to say that she had to be just, mandatory and armed. By stalling in the privatisation process, by letting the privatisation entity think for a long time about privatisation, we bring those who decide to deal with crime, to undermine the company's reputation, to bring it before bankruptcy, to bankruptcy, to charge the entity beyond all means, to sell out valuable objects. Therefore, it seemed to me to be a good solution so far, first that all privatisation must be completed within four years, and then it stimulated workers employed in the privatisation entity to force their leadership to privatise as soon as possible, to get a higher percentage based on enrolment of free shares in the privatisation entity. This stimulation was regulated by two members, today being changed by Articles 14 and 17. The bill, first of all at the level of each year's internship, then with a range of 10% of the value of the capital, up to 30% of the value of the capital to be privatised, depending on the time in which the company carried out the privatisation, and the longest period in which at least some percentage of the value of the capital was 30 months. The promotion within 18 months (it expired, since the law was passed) was up to 30% of the value of the capital to be privatised, so you are now the initial privatisation period of four years extending to practically six, because almost two expired, you are extending by four more, and then you are removing the range in rewarding those who are opting for privatisation, and in fact you are rewarding the employees of the privatisation entities, regardless of the time the privatisation takes place. Why don't you care anymore to make a quick privatisation? If you've already extended the deadline, who guarantees us that you won't extend that deadline from the law every time it comes close to the end of the period left for privatisation. The legislator did not tell us why he is doing this, because it is directly opposed to the government's public efforts to reform, speedily and generally privatise. I don't mind, Mrs. Comic, that the MPs have other things to do and they don't care about the debate, but it would be good if you provided a little order in the O.R. [[Zagor in the O.R.]] This is more and more like a place where people don't find each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26928	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 15. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26929	Before I move on to my amendment, I'd like to touch one question that's caused a lot of controversy here. It is that the privatisation entity does not have the right to sign a privatisation contract under this proposal. The Minister of Privatisation is right there. The privatisation entity has no need to sign the contract, because the contract, in reality, does not accept any obligations. However, there is a formal-legal problem. There's a lady from the Ministry who I heard was a good lawyer, so I'd like her to listen to me. Look what happens when you don't listen to a smart man. For this speaker Vojislav Seselj, before the privatisation law was passed, warned the government of the Republic of Serbia, a resolute ministry, that it directly violates the Constitution and that this would later cause major problems. We have social property in the Constitution. The government was first to pass a law on the abolition of social property, the conversion of that property into state property, and then the state, as the legitimate owner, sold. Now we have a situation that the Agency, the state body, is selling property that isn't hers. The formal-legal problem is causing these polemics. As for my amendment, I suggest that an existing solution to the stimulation of employees and management be maintained in the current law, because privatisation, ladies and gentlemen, in Serbia is dramatically delayed (I said so this morning). I do not share the optimism of Minister Vlahovic that what will be privatised this year is a thousand, and in the next 1,200 small and medium-sized enterprises, some pace that God knows what results. The heart of the Serbian economy will be privatised, something that is realistic now; yes, regardless of whether it is in social or private property, it is actually making a profit and it will be sold. But a huge part of the Serbian economy, exhausted by these ten-year, twelve-year sanctions, wars, bombings of this economy, will not go down the water with its own guilt. What are the assumptions for successful privatisation - well, the experience of all Eastern European countries tells us that assumptions are primarily a good model, extremely good institutional preparations and a social consensus of all political parties in the country, trade unions etc. A necessary and extremely important factor for the success of this job is speed, awe. The impression is undivided that the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have caved under pressure, I don't know who, whether some of the social directors, whether the unions, have proposed this provision by practically ousting stimulating measures. Slow privatisation will inevitably lead to the liquidation of a large part of national wealth. Huge companies, huge national wealth, will be liquidated in three or four years. Secondly, it will lead to the possibility of planned speculation. In the afternoon part, I talked about it, even giving examples. Social directors have no interest in privatising the company planfully, but rather the process is under way, the company's planned maximum debt. And normally, every potential buyer, why buy something that's abnormal for the state, does it have any interest in doing that? Furthermore, the severe decline in economic activity will normally result in a fall in fiscal incomes and in general empty funds, an empty budget and a recession. I'm asking you -- what kind of motivation now has management, social director, to work and make good results? He knows he's going to go to privatisation, he doesn't have the money to buy that company with his crew, so he's interested in being head of the company for another four years. The minister talked about it several times before and now he said that their interests are as large as possible inputs, etc. And instead of cutting it short, to do it lightningly, we're now extending that deadline to him. I would like to appeal once again, since there is a Mr. Minister, although it is not directly the subject of my amendment, to finally come up with a legal solution for agricultural cooperatives. They're formally called cooperatives. You know that, Minister. It's a huge concentrated national wealth, it's falling apart in front of our eyes, and all these 250 MPs know it. There isn't a single percent of the cooperative property there, it's formal, and for some 70 or 80 people on the cooperative council, there's now a huge national fortune going down. I urge you, Mr. Minister, to stimulate in this law, that's a good suggestion, keep it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26930	Are any of the other participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the MPs to really, no matter what we do almost all day and we have more work to do in front of us, to make an effort and to listen with attention to the speakers, because the loud conversation bothers those who expose, except for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, does not contribute to a good picture of this building, so that I really ask you to listen to the next speaker, whoever you are, with attention. We're moving on to Article 15. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelkovic and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, due to violations of the constitutional principle of equality of citizens. Does anyone in the name of the bearer want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26931	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the SPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 15 of the amendment of the law, and it actually refers to a member of the 46th basic law. In yesterday's presentation, I tried to point out the problem in the application of Article 46, which is not just technical, as Mr Vlahovic explained yesterday in the presentation. The technical part of the story is that the former 400 marks are converted into 200 euros, which is not disputed. We have submitted an amendment that this amount of 200 euros per year of employment in a privatising entity can be increased in proportion to 30%, as it belongs to employees in the company on the basis of free actions. The government rejected this amendment with an explanation that such a change would result in a different position and a different right of workers in different privatisation entities. In this regard, let me tell you in a few sentences why this cannot be acceptable at this point and why it does not objectively stand as an explanation. First, you have specifics in this basic law, as well as in changes and additions, to sell up to 30% of the capital, i.e. through free shares to the employee. And in Article 5, amending and supplementing the law, it is envisaged that more than 70% of the capital can be sold in the privatisation entity, in those actions for which the Government estimates it is necessary to do so. You now have a situation like this -- that there are actually not many examples of privatisation that workers exercise their right to 30% of the total social capital in this process... regulated by law, but also by other regulations and sublaws of the Government. [[growls]] You have examples of selling social capital in enterprises that are relatively young Mrs. Komic, I will insist on finishing my presentation, I apologize, Mrs. Micic, please ask my fellow MPs. [[Laughter]] I will be persistent, I will speak for 10 minutes on this subject if necessary, and as an amendment promoter, and also as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, just to explain to you what this amendment is really about. If you're impatient, gentlemen, then you can either be more patient or tell the minister -- don't talk as much, because the minister spoke as all MPs combined. But I don't mind, he has the right to speak, but let us, too, who have amendments to explain why we think something's wrong or is wrong with the bill. But let me get back to the subject. Joco, you're on your own, all yours are out. Yes, yes, alone. Let me get back to this topic. First we talked about the problem of revaluation. We objectively from 2001 to today have the presence of a revaluation of social capital in those enterprises that are to be privatised, but we do not have a revaluation of workers' rights on the basis of a free share of shares of up to 30%. We have a fixed exchange rate for all this time and an objective fact that workers do not come to the opportunity to exercise their right. So that's one problem. The second problem is that you're... does not allow any correction in this respect and I don't think it's objectively standing. [[growls]] It can't be a reason to say -- the position of workers won't be the same as in other privatisation entities. Well, comrades or gentlemen, he's not the same now. Why isn't it the same now, because you don't normally have any companies that have achieved 30% of the free share shares of workers. It's usually five, 10, 15, maybe 20%, but there's almost no 30% anywhere or anywhere. Since I'm not one of those people who says something that doesn't stand, on the case of privatization of "Health" from Leskovci, I'm going to show how right I am about this. Over 550,000 actions were broadcast in the company. Every action was worth 1,000 dinars. So a total of about 550 million dinars of capital are divided into shares. The people who had the right to take action achieved this right for a relatively long time in the company, so whoever had three years of work had the right to 600 euros in shares in dinar equivalent on the day of enrolment of those actions, i.e. on the day of the public call for action to be entered. Those 600 euros meant 36,000 dinars or 36 shares per 1,000 dinars. So, I'm not one to say something that doesn't stand, and here I have one entry card from "Healthy" Leskovac, an example I'm talking about. He entered 36 shares of 36,000 dinars. And when the privatisation was completed, ladies and gentlemen, and it ended on 22 January of this year, the shareholder received confirmation that, on behalf of the registration of free shares, he was entitled to six actions, times 1,000 dinars, i.e. 6,000 dinars, or 100 euros. So six times less than he had the right to the basic provisions of this law. Now we say - please gentlemen accept the amendment that this amount can be increased to 30% based on the free distribution of workers. How labourers' capital can be reduced on this basis, and we have such a situation in practice, why it could not, analoguely, increase. It doesn't stand, therefore, that it would favor me more or less, or that we would underestimate his presence in all of this, because we simply now have a situation where the different application of this law is based on simple reckoning. I do not argue that this is exactly how it was supposed to happen in "Health" Leskovac, but only by that example I confirm how stretching the term is - up to 30%, and how actually workers are in the illusion that when they go into privatisation they will reach 30% of free shares in their businesses. It's not there and it's not there. Especially not present in those young, relatively young companies that do not have a large number of employees, relatively young by age, by years of internships, do not have former employees, or pensioners, and they created this company. When you apply the strict provisions of the law to them, they come to the achievement of five, 10, or possibly 15% of the right based on free division... Here you go. [[growls]] So that was the essence of the SPS amendment and I ask the minister to consider this seriously and accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26932	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Marković, Dragan Milentijevic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo together submitted the amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Vlatko Sekulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26933	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of this amendment is to correct certain injustices and improve the somewhat economic situation of all those people who had a job in the previous period, were on forced vacations or worked and did not receive profits, since there are certain tax purposes for the privatisation revenue. Of course, for us as SDP, the most important thing is that these revenues are used for the development of the economy and for the creation of new jobs, but if it can be predicted that a certain amount of these revenues is going to compensate for the principle of compensation for nationalised assets, meaning old owners, we also think that certain mechanisms should be envisaged to address this social problem. I'm saying, this is one of the possible variants. I feel it is also necessary, and unfortunately we have no opinion, nor is the ministry's position on this, but this is our contribution in the direction of talks and discussions on solving this serious social problem, and this is about unpaid earnings for workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26934	Natasa Milojevic, president of the SDP parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26935	My colleague Sekulovic mentioned several reasons to pay attention to this SDP amendment. Professionals of labour law reminded us of the rules adopted in 1997, such as the Labour Relations Act and the General collective contract that provides for the employer's obligation to pay off outstanding earnings. The commitment is transferred from one year to the next and the obligation has been entered into by individual collective agreements of enterprises. I remind you that there is a way that this obligation, if not as we have predicted by the amendment, will be fulfilled on the basis of the budget division. What kind of way is that? If there is no room in the budget for the payment of outstanding earnings, and there are some six items for what is provided for in this article, then it can be realistically expected that employees who expect their unpaid earnings are discriminated against. Discriminated against property owners who are nationalised, discriminated against others, who have received unpaid earnings or even unpaid or once-performing savings, such as savings from the famous Dafiment Bank and Jugoscans. We don't want employees to be discriminated against in any way. Our proposal is to comply with the general collective contract provisions and the 1997 Labour Relations Act. Namely, to remind Minister Vlahovic, and everyone here, that there are over 150,000 executive court solutions, so employees have the right to these outstanding profits. It is true that it is millions of dollars and it is true that it simply said that there is no money now, but I pray that it is always possible to solve it as a budget problem or a budget item. We will remain on this amendment for another reason. If employees come with these executive solutions in front of their company and realize them, the company goes bankrupt. We don't want the bankruptcy firms to be the subject of privatisation. We don't want companies to go bankrupt instead of being privatized. This time of law foreseen for the completion of the privatisation process is the last train. Therefore, I ask that this amendment be taken seriously and extremely well-intentionedly, and that, in a manner permitted by the Budget Law, if not the amendments to the Privatisation Act, the payment of outstanding earnings, to which employees have been entitled since 1997.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26936	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26937	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, not entering into the essence and purpose of such an amendment, deeply understanding the intensities of the amendment's promoter to correct in this way another historical injustice, the promoter, and on behalf of the promoter as minister, I believe that this amendment should not be accepted as part of the Privatisation Act for at least two reasons: one is formal and the other is essential. The essential reason; the drought where workers are owed is for companies that are highly in charge and whose value of capital is essentially minimal, if any. The value of capital is negative. We do not believe that the revenues obtained from privatisation based on these companies would create a critical mass for correcting injustice against workers who have been denied the amount of earnings from a collective contract. On the contrary, I think we'd just open up to them a right that they couldn't essentially take advantage of. For a formal reason; we believe that even if this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia opted for the benefit, i.e. the compensation of those who have not been paid the sum of total earnings under the collective agreement, this should be regulated primarily by the Budget Act, because we can count there on a more generous amount of funds and in a much more certain way of financing, rather than on the basis of the revenues from privatisation. Because, once again, I underline that it is a group of 600 large enterprises where the capital is mostly minimal or negative. So, understanding the spirit, in essence, I think this should be discussed when considering the budget law, and that is why we do not think that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26938	Is there more applications for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radic Jokovic. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26939	Ms. Micic, at this time, you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Article 81(1), which says the National Assembly is working on sessions at which a debate on proposals for laws in general or in particular Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, between 10.00 and 18.00 hours, with an end of one hour. Using the provisions of Article 4, you were entitled to do so yesterday (I would ask you to close the door to this room where people do not sit) to decide that the National Assembly is working on another day. Friday. You announced that decision to the MPs and now Friday has the same fate as Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and that, as far as the work of the National Assembly is concerned, the sessions are held between 10.00 and 1800 hours with an hour's interruption. So far, Mrs. Micic, you've had so much consideration for the Rules of Procedure, so there's always been one MP for a pay phone at 6:00 p.m. and he suggested what is not possible under the Rules of Procedure, but most of them can decide, we can see that, that the session can be extended after 18.00 hours. Today at 18.03 you continue your work as if nothing had happened, and you have not decided that today the National Assembly is working longer than 18.00 hours. That decision is not your discretionary right. If you think you're telling us that we're going to work today until we get off our feet, that you were right and that you can replace the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, you're wrong. From what I hear, you're a graduate lawyer. If that's how you interpret the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Micic, go where they gave you your degree, apologize nicely for wearing it undeservedly, give it back to the people. Perhaps someone will earn it more work, greater knowledge, and greater acceptance of what has been voted upon than you. So, I understand your anxiety, you're getting away with it. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. What an excess, you extend the session of the Assembly without a decision, and you warn me of overstepping. You've dropped the advantage of 176 MPs, and now you're trading at 115, 116, and you want to rule as if you have 176. He can't. This session cannot continue without a decision. And she's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but without a majority decision... Milka Marinkovic: Anything can be done whenever you want. The People's MP of the Democratic Party says he can do anything whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26940	You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've exceeded your time, and I'm asking you to leave the pay phone. People's MP, I'd really prefer you to be my colleague's attorney, then we'd be easier to find a common language and we'd understand each other better. You yourself have read article 81, which is taxing for days: Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Therefore, this working time does not apply to the case described in Article 81(4), which says that the President of the National Assembly can set a second day to work. Yesterday, I don't know if you've been there, but there are stenographic notes, I've determined that we'll work today, and we'll approach the vote, which means I have to keep my word, and I've already made a commitment to the MPs. We have a quorum to work with. 120 MPs are present in the O.R. Just to tell you the reason I was forced to do it. If we didn't work tonight, we would break the Constitution, Article 79, which says the regular session begins on the first working day of March, and since you're an experienced MP, you know there's a special arrangement for a regular session and then we should never allow this session to enter a regular session. I think I've made myself clear. In addition, I think those who have the will and desire to work here are present, that we should also respect that. Are you asking the Administrative Board to plead? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26941	You've injured Article 100. The Rules of Procedure, which requires that the MPs of the people, I think you are still a People's MP, honor the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Micic, I would also like you to be something else, perhaps I would have something in common with you equally or at least, and I could talk to you, but I never say that for this speaker. There is much that you need to correct, Mrs. Micic, so that you can speak to me equally. First of all, you can correct your position that you are allowed to use all your resources today in this session of the National Assembly. Your goal today is to complete an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, as if it were my fault that you didn't start it in time. Tonight at midnight you interrupt this extraordinary session, your regular session begins, as you know, on your first working day in March. Do whatever you want. The fact that you promised the MPs that today would be a vote, so now you have to keep it, imagine that, for example, I promised my neighbors I would pave the street and come to them, catch the minister of privatisation or the minister of finance for the throat and say, "Take out the money, I promised the neighbors I'd fund the street." Since when did this congregation keep the promises that the president of the National Assembly made to someone? This assembly is run by the Constitution, led by the Rules of Procedure, it is in the interest of the MPs represented in parliament. You know very well, to vote on anything, you need 126 MPs in the room. You know very well that you have long lost most of the 126 MPs by means of government policy. You make noise, my dear MPs, you won't be long, surely.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26942	I agree with the People's Parliament that this assembly is in the interest of MPs. I also agree that the Constitution should be respected, that's what I said, that's Article 79, and that the Rules of Procedure should be respected, that is, Article 81, paragraph 4, and, of course, the agreement of yesterday and the promise that we will end the session today. We're continuing our work. National MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26943	I'm advocating a breach of the Rules of Procedure, article 82, pages 2 and 3. "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least one third of the MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. "Station 4. "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly, in voting days, when the minutes are adopted from the previous session and the establishment of the agenda, as well as at the constitutional session of the National Assembly, exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly." Since the chairman just said that she has scheduled a voting day for today, I ask that a quorum of 126 MPs be established.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26944	People's MP, I have nothing else to say to you but to read the Rules of Procedure again. You said yourself that working takes one third, and we have more than one third. When there's a vote, of course, then we'll determine the quorum for the decision and we always do that. I really don't understand this remark. National MP Radic Jokovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Krisodulo together submitted to the 20th amendment. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26945	The essence of the SRS amendment is to specify Article 61. The Privatization Act. In this article, which refers to the funds that will be allocated to the development of the economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 2) states: "If the seat of the privatisation entity is located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 50% of the funds will be allocated to finance restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the AP Vojvodina". Now look what it's all about. We just heard from the MPs of the political option for Vojvodina's independence, he said he had arranged something with Minister Vlahovic, I don't know what and where they agreed on, but I guess, since the debate on the Law on Privatisation, that they agreed to accept the coalition's amendment to make 60% of the funds into the Vojvodina budget. In order to clarify the citizens of Vojvodina, we Serbian radicals are not against financing the economy and development of Vojvodina's economy, but we are against this contractual method that you serve, that the funds from privatisation in the Vojvodina territory are being paid into the AP Vojvodina budget. Wasn't there enough time and experience for the past three years to make sure that the current government in Vojvodina, except that it is opposed to the people's will of the people of Vojvodina, is being thrown away by the money of the citizens of Serbia and Vojvodina. Isn't this discrimination? You are making discrimination not only between the region in Serbia, but between certain cities and municipalities. What kind of exclusivity the Vojvodina Assembly and the Executive Greater Vojvodina have with regard to cities such as Nis, Kragujevac and other municipalities in Serbia. Don't think, gentlemen, that by accepting amendments to the autonomous parties, you will always provide the majority in this assembly. He will help you. He will vote for you as long as you have the money to give them, to satisfy their needs. You saw in the concession law how the pumpkin broke. It's the beginning of the coalition's collapse, the beginning of something you're aware of. We warn you, and this amendment has the purpose of making it clear how much funds belong to municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. And not by such an imprecise definition, you open up the possibility of a subsequent interpretation, following today's adopted new draft of the Vojvodina Constitution, where all the options have been considered, and you know well that these are people who are and have been active lately when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina in the American Congress. Then they will interpret that all assets from the sale of the company in Vojvodina belong to the Duke's Assembly. Then what are you gentlemen going to do? You give them, right now, financial independence, economic independence; what else they have left, legislative power, executive power, and they've done their job. Don't repent, it'll be too late, we warn you in time. It's just enough to accept the SRS amendment and make all things clearly defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26946	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. Here you go. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26947	I know that the Constitutional Court, like all of this, will undo this discussion of mine. I must warn you of what you are doing to Article 20, or amendments to Article 61. The Privatization Act. I understand that the Vojvodina Assembly is now proposing autonomous, separatist laws and the Vojvodina Assembly and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But if the government of the Republic of Serbia changes the existing legal text in such a way as to be written by the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, he regained consciousness and said that he no longer counts on Serbia, I can't understand it. What was written by the bill promoter in point 2 of paragraph 2, but I'll read you attitude 1. So you can figure out what this is about. So the funds achieved by privatisation are allocated as follows: 50% of the funds will be allocated to finance restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And now it is added: "If the seat of the privatisation entity is located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, 50% of the funds will be allocated to finance restructuring and development of the economy in the territory of the AP Vojvodina". I don't know what the promoter wanted. I know what you get by interpreting this member. So, if the privatisation entity is located in Valjevo, 50% of the funds achieved by privatisation go to finance restructuring and economic development in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If the privatisation entity is located in Kovacica, 50% goes to Vojvodina. (Kedomir Jovanovic: And where is the other 50%?) ) I'm sorry, Mr. Jovanovic, read 5% of self-government, 5% for restitution and not to explain the bill to you. That 50% doesn't go for all of Serbia anymore, it goes exclusively for Vojvodina. On what basis, ladies and gentlemen, MPs? Where's your constitutional foundation now? How do you bring this into an unequal constitutional basis of territory depending on whether they are in the north of Danube or in the south? We have proposed an amendment to clearly divide the 50% planned budgets: 25% and half to go to the Vojvodina budget, and half to go to Serbia's budget. You don't accept that either. You now say, if the subject of privatisation is on the territory of the Vojvodina, everything belongs to the Vojvodina. What's a Vojvodina? Region? State? Is she outside Serbia? Then why would Valjevo, when privatising "Krusik" say, why should everything go to Serbia, which does not go to the Valjev County, call it exactly Kolubarski. What's the difference? What do you encourage? What are you warming up with this? Or are you buying votes? Votes exclusively of the MPs of the people, but not of the citizens of Vojvodina. The people of Vojvodina watch you separate them from Serbia. They think it's easy for them, I don't mean those who will rejoice when the Duke's split. I mean most of it. Everything in the country is done at the will of the majority, not the minority. That's why elections are held to determine what the majority is. It is obvious that in Serbia, four years is too long to determine that the majority is. Apparently, the census showed that more than 70% of the people of Vojvodina were registered as Serbs, not Vojvodina, and by any other basis, and what they have the right to do; as Serbs, it is a sign that they want to be in Serbia. Don't introduce an inequality, unequal to develop us. You're going to try the second item of the agenda tonight to implement it, and where certain cities are being given funds to develop infrastructure. Will other municipalities in Serbia be satisfied?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26948	I'm warning you of over-time, as well as the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26949	I promised I'd say all this, so I have to keep what I promised.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26950	The word came from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who was the prime minister of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26951	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a good opportunity to sometimes face the extremisms we face on both sides. There are good examples of comparative analysis of the law on concessions and privatisation, the requirement during the debate on the law on concessions and requirements that were not true here, but we have come to meet them ourselves by analysing the needs of individual territorial continents of our Republic. It is not true that this member of the law has been violated by the Republic Constitution. In Article 6 of the current Serbian Constitution, the AP of Vojvodina and AP of Kosovo and Metohija are said to exist in the Republic of Serbia. Valevo is not mentioned, but it is understood that there is what is organized as a municipality. The municipality is also a territorial unit. As regards the territorial organisation of the Republic, it has been established that autonomous provinces are educated in accordance with the specific, national, historical, cultural and other properties of their territories, that their citizens exercise their rights on their own and fulfil their duties established by the Constitution and by law. Through its authorities, the AP adopts a programme of economic, scientific, technological, demographic, regional and social development, bringing budgets and a final account, regulating issues of interest for citizens. The Republic of Serbia trusts the autonomous provinces with the performance of certain tasks, and the statute is their highest legal act. Therefore, very clearly in the existing Constitution, jurisdiction, rights and obligations of the provinces have been defined, and in this case AP Vojvodina. We said that these reforms of the Privatisation Act want to speed up, first of all, investment in infrastructure and economy. We think it's rational, when we have defined this principle in very clear views, that 50% of the privatisation funds is allocated through investments in the economy and infrastructure, to transfer that right to the Autonomous Region as well. Did we injure any other rights? We didn't, because the specificity of the autonomous province must be respected, which is explicit under the current Constitution and will certainly be highlighted in the new constitution, which I believe we will work together in the coming months. Is this some special jurisdiction - of course it is because they are special features of this territorial continent, which is called the Vojvodina. There's no politics here. We have defined by the Privatisation Act that 50% of the funds obtained by privatisation will be directed to Vojvodina if these funds are achieved by privatising economic operators in the Vojvodina area. Is there some kind of illogicality in that? The only illogicality I see can be asked by the question - why didn't you do it right away? Why didn't we say right away, a year and a half or two years ago, that these funds would be transferred to Vojvodina if they were obtained from Vojvodina enterprises? Because we had to work through the Privatisation Act, define the system, see its upper and lower limits, and then make a responsible decision. Today, we can say that privatisation allows us to invest in Vojvodina by disbursing 50% of the funds received from Vojvodina and moving the other 50% of the funds into a pension fund, into a restitution fund, into a social programme fund, into investments in the economy, infrastructure and other segments of our society, and whether they are cultural, economically, we will see from situation to situation. But this is not an anti-Serbian member, nor does it violate the Constitution, and we will be very happy to support this, thus denying all those who criticise us. At the same time, on the other hand, they will accuse us of not taking care of the special interests of the Vojvodina. We're also leading how, we're glad to be able to meet that, and I think this is a confirmation of the right policy. I hope that in the future we can think about other criteria, respect them and meet them, that we can say that the percentage of funds for local self-government is increasing, perhaps next year. That's our reality. We adapt to real opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26952	The breach of the Rules of Procedure - MP Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26953	There was a breach of the Rules of Procedure here because the dignity of the National Assembly was not respected. This isn't about us being extremists, and we're even classified in the same plane as extremists on the other side. It's not true that we said this was an anti-Serbian member. We said this is an anti-state member, because Serbs live both in Vojvodina and outside Vojvodina. I wouldn't mix that up for people or minorities. This is an anti-state member, because there is no man in this room who will be able to explain to me - how is it, if he is a privatization entity in Subotica, that the people of Vrsec will benefit from it, and that he will not benefit the people of Valjevo? You have to explain that to me. It's not worth using this pay phone to talk about how you care about the specialities of the Vojvodina. What speciality does the Vojvodina have with regard to the residents of Piroth or Kragujevac? When you make them special, don't ever wonder why they're looking for a state. Where are your MPs? Have they finished that congregation today where they make some of their most important historical decisions? You can't blur glass here by suddenly offering autonomists 50% of the resources achieved by privatising entities from Vojvodina territory. It won't satisfy them. They opened their mouths and whatever you put in that mouth will be small. Use the Constitution, use most, use democracy to ensure that Serbia is unique. In this way, as you have begun, as we experience humiliation that you are passing laws here that are ruining Serbia just because you need six more votes, Serbia will not survive. If Serbia doesn't survive, there's you and privatisation and concessions. It's over. You're aware of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26954	Please don't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26955	Ma'am, I've got 40 seconds left. I point out how everyone here is getting hurt by the Rules of Procedure. I don't swear, I don't yell, I don't speak foreign language, I respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and I ask you, Mrs. Micic, to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26956	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) Has anyone else applied for a word? The word is from MP Stevan Guduruc, authorised representative of the National Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26957	There have been several amendments to this Article 20 with different amounts for the local community. There is one amendment by the people's MP Kovacevic, who says 10, with the goal of increasing the share towards the local community, but here for two days we are arguing that these 10 are not an increase. If you get 5% of the privatisation and someone steals your tax, it won't be an increase. It's just what we basically, in the beginning, when we adopted this law in June 2001, which we expected in local communities that we would have. So we're going to have 5% of the Privatisation Act and we're going to have 5% of the tax on the transfer of absolute rights. It happened that it wasn't like that. So it's a practice. That's why, Mrs. Comic, we talk a lot here about Cementara from Beocina, because Cementara from Beocina is something that was first privatized in the state and because, despite the fact that the minister came out three times after me for a pay phone, and once from the gym, he couldn't bring down any findings, no fact that was presented to him here. This proposal by the Serbian Unity Party, which says it should be 15% for the local community, is some reality. If someone steals your taxes from some unmistakable press releases, that's not right. Two ministers here in several sessions were called to come out and explain what it was. Maybe yesterday I'm lying neatly from this pay phone and telling people what this is or what it is. So so many times we've talked about it, and two ministers don't find it appropriate to come out and explain that it's the People's MP from Beoc's lie, that it has nothing to do with the truth, and that it's a pure legal category, law enforcement, etc. No, neither Minister Vlahovic explained this yesterday and today, at any of the previous meetings, Minister Djelic, also called. The fact that they're trying to explain something to me in the bench doesn't count, counts from this pay phone. This is written and recorded, and that's the way it is. So I think this amendment, which will give the local community 15%, makes a lot of sense. So, again, I'm going to tell you about the Beician cement factory, because since World War II, we've been talking about it, using the model of expropriation, it's significantly reduced the processing surfaces of Beocino, and it's turned it all into its spears, the pits. And then for that level of money, which was given by the previous version, the question -- is it covering that these people, whose property was taken for the Tepsia of the fish, are compensated at least fundamentally in the elements of the infrastructure. If we really want to give these environments something to give, then the percentage of 15% is a perfectly correct indicator and a perfectly correct number. The wells in which it is privatized will continue to suffer damage because Beocin continues to suffer the damage from the aero-pollution and the oil-cox; from the fact that the shiny trucks are scrambling in ways that no one does. Because, and that, Mr. Minister, you can notice when you go to Karashev, what it looks like to go to the intersection. So I think this amendment makes sense, and I also know that you won't accept it, as everything that made sense mostly doesn't make sense. I'm talking about where I come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26958	You've overstepped the time and the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26959	I'm very much on the subject, Mrs. Micic, but time is up and it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26960	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic submitted together to the 20th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Jankovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? There's a word from MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26961	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try, respecting your time, to persuade you with the slightest words to vote in favour of this amendment. I tried my amendment to specify the solution offered in Article 20, and I am convinced that this is how we improve the text of the law ourselves. In Article 20(2), following these already mentioned 50% to finance restructuring and development of the economy, I suggest you adopt a new position: "If the privatisation entity is a dependent company, the founder of which is a public enterprise founded by the Republic of Serbia, or the AP Vojvodina, 50% will be allocated to finance the restructuring and development of the public enterprise. "So this is a special case of solutions that have already been given. A special case has its own justification, first of all because it's not selling the entire privatisation entity, but rather a dependent company and there's a founder, it's a public enterprise as a beneficiary of state resources. The bottom line is that some dependent companies have entered public enterprises in such a way that they are practically bought for debts, but it is much more important that we now establish new subsidiaries in the process of restructuring public enterprises. There are significant restructuring costs for the establishment of new subsidiaries. I suggest that in this way we motivate public enterprises to enter the process decisively. If we've declared this year a year of restructuring of public enterprises, I think this is how we're just helping and stimulating this process. I'm sure there's no harmful effect of such precision. What may disturb the government to reject this amendment, that is, when funds from selling dependent companies enter the budget, they have one very broad purpose -- used to restructure and develop the economy, is not said. With my solution, these funds have a more precise address and there is no wide space left for political interpretations, for union pressures or for any self-will. So those funds have a clear purpose. I know that there is a possibility and I have received a reply from the Government's representative that this can be done and will be arranged in another way, but if this is to be the year of restructuring of public enterprises, it is necessary today, in February, to adopt such a legal solution and give space to public enterprises to enter the restructuring process decisively. I urge you once again to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26962	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radic Jokovic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? There is a word from MP Branislav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26963	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the People's MPs, I know the time has passed. This article has received many objections, amendments, proposals, and has been discussed for more than half an hour. And of course, I've attached my amendment. I leave it to the MPs' conscience that sometimes they think about local self-government and local communities, cities and cities where they come from, not just global interest. There are also some small, small interests of ours, sometimes they need to be respected, Mr. Minister. I thank you for your attention so far, but I think the MPs will vote for my amendment this time and support it; simply, 10% of the funds achieved on that basis will be transferred to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26964	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 21st amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević, together, MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajić, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoičić, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic, together. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajić, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic together submitted together. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Radulovic. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Meso Omerovic, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Kristodulo mutually submitted an amendment proposing that a new member be added after article 25. The Committee on Finance and the Representative of the Government did not accept this amendment at the meeting of the Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26965	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act in general, and also in particular, to accept the amendments that the Government has accepted. All other solutions that the Government has not accepted, i.e. Amendments, I would like to inform you that by amending the Regulation on tender and auction privatisation, we will try to achieve, among other things. As for the solution to the different distribution of revenues than was proposed by the law, I ask you to move that debate to the moment when it will be held in this Parliament very soon, a debate on budget rebalancing for 2003 and to take account of this in the Republic of Serbia's 2004 budget. Therefore, once again I call on you to support your majority with one successful privatisation process, which will be implemented even more effectively and even more quickly, so that we all together build a private sector by mid-2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26966	I thank Mr. Secretary. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. As I said before, the vote will take place during today’s day, or night. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AS A GUARANT TO THE EUROPEAN RANGEMENT AND RETAINING COUNTRY OF SERBIA, THE CITY OF NIS AND THE CITY OF NEW NOW You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received an amendment submitted by MP Goran Ciric on the bill. The amendments that will be filed until the start of the search will be sent to you during the session. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to submit their application for a word, with a number of MPs, if any. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a principled search and ask if the proposing representative, Rodoljub Sabic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, wants a word? Here's a word for Mr. Rodoljub Shabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26967	Thank you, Madam President. So, ladies and gentlemen, I guess I won't be too busy. You have before you a legal project that should put an end to a good, interesting, quality process. In a few words, I will remind you of the fact that somewhere in the middle of last year, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concluded with our three cities agreements on the financing of their infrastructure reconstruction programmes; that the Federal Assembly ratified these agreements and appeared as a guarantee of these commitments. We are now in a position to give Serbia-Montenegro a counter-guarantee for the legal job as a member of the Serbia-Montenegro community, which is a co-excessor of these obligations. I don't think there can be any dilemma in this regard, especially considering two things. One is the conditions under which this counter-guarantee is given, and it is credit conditions in the present situation in the most favourable class. It is about the interest rate at EURIBOR level, therefore the interest rate under which financial organisations communicate on the market, increased by only one percent, which can indeed be considered to be quite favourable. The other thing is, the purpose of these loans. So it's something that needs to be allowed to finally be invested in a more robust, more serious way in something that is truly an objective resource of vital importance for Kragujevac and Novi Sad and six million for Nis. This should qualitatively improve the living conditions of the citizens of the three largest cities in the Republic after Belgrade, so it should qualitatively improve the living conditions of nearly a million residents of the Republic. It will be investments in source, distribution and water supply facilities and sewers. I believe no one has a dilemma about the justification of these investments. Honestly, I'm sorry there are no representatives of the opposition here, because I think this is a moment that we could happily share together, because it should undoubtedly contribute to improving the living conditions of Serbian citizens. I like to believe that all of our political actions are based first of all on making sense when we provide this very condition. Gentlemen Members of the People, without any doubt, and on behalf of the Serbian Government, I urge you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26968	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here's a word from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26969	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, the DSS supports this bill. The bill was passed by our MPs in the Federal Parliament. We understand the need for these loans, and our wish was to contribute to our own debate and participation in the vote to support this law. Unfortunately, because of the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, we had to leave the O.R. The viewers on TV and you're aware that the Rules of Procedure have been broken more than once... (President: Please stick to the agenda theme and do not speak falsely. )......................................................................................................... for which reasons the Democratic Party of Serbia has left the hall and... (President: Please, I really think that would be correct. I'm just answering to Minister Shabic. He expressed regret that the opposition is gone. The opposition in the DSS wanted to vote for this bill, but because of the harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, we had to leave the room.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26970	The word is from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26971	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seems that everyone from the DSS would like a lot, just in addition to wanting something to be done, or trying to do something about it. You took literally the Prime Minister's recommendation and went to sleep. We won't miss you, but you certainly didn't show responsibility to the citizens by leaving the gym without any reason. You once again tried to disable the work of parliament when we are obliged to do our best to do our job most responsibly. This counter-guarantee was previously verified by the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the SRJ Assembly and we are obliged to complete the work here in the Republic Parliament and provide very important infrastructure investments in cities - Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, as soon as possible. This empty assembly hall, partly empty, is actually a message to the citizens of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, and they're sending it here to represent them. There is no responsibility in the Serb parliament in the ranks of the opposition, it is our fact and despite it we will try to finish our job. Why do we support this law, even though it is clear that it is credit arrangements? Because these credit arrangements are very favourable, they have a satisfactory grace period, i.e. an interest-free period, which these arrangements are of high quality, as the consequence of the marked readiness of international financial institutions to help our society, and on the other hand are an indicator of the responsibility of local self-government and towns of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. Large infrastructure projects are ahead of those environments. That money will be spent correctly and we therefore support this to the extent possible, with our votes. We don't agree to conditioning policy, blackmail, we're doing our job. I believe that representatives of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, explaining concrete infrastructure projects, will provide sufficient guarantees to citizens that the funds of this loan will be used in the most qualitative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26972	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word from the representatives or president of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. Please, the word has been made by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26973	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law on Serbia's counterguarantee. It is difficult for me to speak when I see the relationship of our MPs with what directly means the adoption of the law in this House and when we read the name of the law that is at this point our topic of debate. This has nothing to do with daily life and the daily problems of our citizens. So, this problem treats exactly the guarantee of the Republic government and the Republic Assembly to the cities of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. The city of Belgrade has already activated that credit line with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and that is a prerequisite, since we have just heard what it means for other cities. The implementation of this project in the four cities will be a real precondition and a real reference for the implementation of these projects in other Serbian cities as well. In order to show that this is a completely open matter, this contract is signed with the European Bank and is waiting precisely for this House's confirmation of the guarantee and the activation of the money that needs to solve the most direct life problems of our citizens. The preamble to this contract is very important to me and talks about the thoughts of such important international financial institutions; it says that the objectives of the bank are to ensure the financing of specific projects to accelerate transition towards open market-oriented economies and to promote private and entrepreneurial initiatives in Central and Eastern Europe countries are defined for the principles of multi-party democracy, pluralism and market economy, and are applied accordingly and applied accordingly. When it comes to Nis, it's about solving the problem of the 21st century, the biggest, drinking water problem. We're talking about life here most directly. Since water is the necessary source of life, we, with such projects, are involved in European trends available with drinking water. Many of us think that Serbia is rich in water and very often this thesis is very common in our public. Unfortunately, however, this is not so: 92% of all the waters in Serbia have a transit character and come from other areas, and probably our public does not know very well that only 8% is formed in their own territory. Hence both old and present-day problems - cyanide in Tisa, atrazine in Sava and phenol in Ibra. What does that mean most directly? We know what kind of problems the people of Topola have, what the citizens of the Kings have; we know what will happen if we continue with this kind of water and water system relationship; it lasts 10 years intensively, no investments in water systems, and 20 years certainly did nothing good for the whole system behind us. This loan brings the city Niš 12.33m euros most directly, and my fellow citizens know that. The direct support of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is sixm euros. It is a new source of drinking water, stable supply during all summer months when it is common to have water shortages, to build new tanks for continuity in drinking water supply, new equipment purchases that will maintain collectors, water and sewerage systems. It means prevention, because we know that in Nis we had a major flood problem two years ago, it's an investment in the resolution of such consequences. I'm talking about all this, about this importance, and unfortunately, I don't see my coalition partners in the local government in town in these benches. Believe me, it is simply unthinkable for me as a man that my vice president in the Assembly, who bears the same responsibility for the city's functioning and towards the citizens of Nis, Mr Adzic, comes out of the hall, hides behind these doors. Mr. Stamenkovic is in opposition, and it is not much to resent him, Mr. Vojnovic and many other colleagues simply show their attitude towards their city, towards the citizens. They expect, of course, our responsibility and our struggle for every penny, for every euro and every possible investment in our city. Knowing all these problems and that in this structure, this loan from the European Bank is participating with sixm euros, that the city will participate with 2.3m euros, that the adoption of this counter-guarantee is a prerequisite for getting 3.8m euros from KFA, the German credit bank, so donations and we will work to renovate pipelines and repair 40% of losses in the water network of the city of Nis. Clearly what it means for our citizens, for our children, what this investment means, because it takes care of the most important resource of the 21st century, about drinking water, because in this way that we had 20 and 10 years ago, we spend practically the future and the resources that should allow normal life in our cities. I may have talked with too much emotion about this problem, but I want to finally call upon and call on the consciences of those who came out of this hall, as well as people from the local government of a large number of cities in Serbia, including Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade. Let them go to the public of Serbia, let them go to the public of their cities, and let them say why they are preventing the realization of such important projects. I hope they'll appeal to their minds, go down to the O.R. and vote for this bill. I call on you to support this bill, because it is vital for our citizens, because it is a good realisation of these projects that the other cities in Serbia get this kind of support.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26974	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, and the next reported word is MP Bora Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26975	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I know we're pretty much all tired, but this is a very important topic, especially for the residents of these three largest cities after Belgrade. The proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development leads to a definitive application of the loan agreement between the EBRD and Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. As far as the town of Kragujevac is concerned, I would like to give a brief specification of what this agreement is and what the citizens of Kragujevac should get. First of all, I want to remind you that the town of Kragujevac is supplied with three water supply systems and they are built at different times. The first is one of the oldest in Serbia, built in 1938 and today in office, and the last one was built in 1985 and that is, I believe, many know, the famous system of Gruža. The annual production of drinking water with these three systems is about 25 million feet [25 million m] cubic. The biggest problem, however, is that about 15 million cubic metres reach the end of the consumer, i.e. a clean loss in this case is 10 million metres of cubic, or 43% of the produced water. In this regard, we must bear in mind that water processing costs are very high and amount to 10.8 dinars per metre cubic, and when calculating costs for the Public municipal company Vodavod are approximately 1,800,000 euros per year at this point. Such losses are primarily committed to the Kragujevac City Assembly and normally us as MPs to financially help and find adequate funds to intervene and reduce losses, and also make the system more rational and reliable. The funds for such a significant intervention, which we need to verify together here today, do not exist in this area, means local self-government, specifically in the town of Kragujevac, or in the public utility, whose founder is Skuština of the city. The only way to find the necessary funds is to use this kind of credit arrangement. The funds of these five million euros, which you have here a chance to see in this agreement, will be divided into three items. The first is that 750,000 euros will be invested in the reduction of losses, whether due to errors in measurement, due to the elimination of wild connections, due to suspension of flat-rate consumers. This target group represents about 15% of the water consumption I was just talking about. Two and a half million euros, as second paragraph, will be invested in the reconstruction of the water system due to its permanence. If you just keep in mind that the main highway pipelines are about 70 years old, then you know what kind of weariness they are. This project, especially this second item, will have its other positive side, will also give home companies a chance to participate in international tenders and, possibly, engage in their own performance and potential. The third item of 1,750,000 euros should be invested to increase revenues in the exploitation of the system, as well as to improve environmental conditions, which means building a water and fecal network in suburban settlements, which is a wound for Kragujevac and I believe for these two cities. The plan, under this agreement, is for all three consumer types to be equaled by 2008, for economics, budget users and the population, which was also one of the conditions for obtaining the necessary credit. By 2010, 90% of the issue of water supply to the town of Kragujevac was also planned. I listed these data for a simple reason to interest you and to show the importance of such a single project. But what is surprising to us and what we should all condemn here is the behavior of those people who swear to honesty, rightly, to legality, and for some cheap political points are willing to put such important life issues aside and that they want to make political profit. May he serve them with honor. I sincerely hope the citizens of Serbia are watching this. I would like each of them to show a sufficient dose of seriousness and explain why today, if we can politically argue about some other issues, there are no questions on these life-threatening issues that may depend on the fate of the development of these three cities, including the regions represented by these cities as bearers of their development. They know who they are and I think it would be very rude of me to mention them. All in all, this project is extremely important for the town of Kragujevac and its realization contributes to removing the big and long-term problem affecting the town of Kragujevac and the entire forest region. He once again invites you to vote in favour of this agreement and to definitely solve a problem like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26976	The word has been made by MP Bora Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26977	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased to be able to address you today and, hopefully, I am getting the idea of voting and supporting counter-guarantees, because this investment depends largely on the reconstruction of both the water and sewerage networks in Novi Sad. Perhaps these are for some Members of the banal questions, perhaps they are under the honor of dealing with the communals, of dealing with ordinary problems, perhaps because of that there are no members of the DSS of the New Sad, or the Radical Party, or the SPS, but we thought it was our job to take care of these very things. It's on the verge of good taste to compare the damage in Novi Sad and other cities, because everyone's suffering is the greatest. The Nova Sad has lost three bridges. It's the most bombed in the refinery. Bridges are not ordinary buildings, but symbols of a city, guardians of the urban identity of the city, they are a sign of the historical development of the city. With New Sad bridges, urban, municipal, traffic and communication logic built by Novi Sad also fell into the water. At the bottom of the Danube are not the debris of our bridges, but it is part of the history of that city. That's why I want to speak, and that's why I'm asking you to support counter-guarantee, to allow us to get credit and to invest more strongly in Novi Sad and to recover the city faster and more communally and urbanally. I'll remind you, it's a small depression, but it's not intrusive to say, over the past two years, Novi Sad has provided a 26m-euro donation to clean up the Danube. We signed a 40m-euro contract last July on the construction of the 40m-euro Freedom Bridge. Total investment in Novi Sad in the municipal system was three billion dinars. When compared to the territory of Novi Sad and the number of inhabitants, we can conclude that Novi Sad is one of the leaders in investing among cities. This financial injection would be significant, because it would allow us to invest in the basic technical system, most importantly, as an assumption for all other technical systems, and that is the plumbing and sewerage. So Novi Sad has problems with water supply in summer syringes, between July 15th and August 15th. The maximum technological capability of the New Sad plumbing is 1,500 liters per second. At that interval, on July 15th - August 15th, the newly-sad needs were dimensional to 1,500 to 1,700 liters per second. One investment from this loan is exactly the water factory, which would give 200 liters per second of drinking water, which would make up for that lack. Furthermore, the end of the Freedom Bridge creates the assumption that we can put a tank on the luck side, and it gives an additional 200 liters per second. I also remind you that over the next 15 days we're opening the Reni-Bunar number 10, which gives from 80 to 100 liters of raw water for later processing. These are all the efforts we make to solve the problem of water supply in Novi Sad. He, as a dominant problem at the moment, does not exist, but exists at that time interval of a month, when the biggest summer heat, exists on the periphery, on the edges of Bačka. There is this problem when it comes to Futog, Begech, Kisač, Stepanovic, high parts of Srema. So we have a water supply problem in Kamenica, Popovica, Ledinci, Vukovac, Petrovaradin. You would help us, and I think it would be very important to adopt this counter-guarantee law and to solve this important problem. Also, part of this fivem-euro loan goes to reconstruction of the sewer network. The acute problem is in the refinery circle. This would allow the drain, the entire sewerage, to go two and a half kilometers down the Danube, and that would significantly solve this problem which, if it is not solved, could result in a difficult environmental problem in the long term. These are all the things I think it would be important to support this law. If we vote counter-guarantee today, Novi Sad will deal with the problems and the problems he is now facing in financial and organisational terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26978	The word is by MP Dusan Golubovic. The next person registered for the word is MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26979	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, although I think Aca Radosavljevic said the main and the key, but well, I have an obligation as president of the City Government, here I am two and a half years in office, and I am very familiar with all the problems of water supplying the town of Kragujevac. It's a big problem, you remember that old saying "like rain around Kragujevac", we've always had water problems. I have to say something before that: I'm really sorry there are no former colleagues from the DSS. You know, I have to say it openly, because I'm simply deleted from the DSS for one single reason, because of the budget. I voted first of all, held this conference in Kragujevac, because of my fellow citizens and my voters Kragujevci and Šumadia. That story hurts a little, but it's the way it is. Well, good. I'll tell you one more thing, I've heard a lot of things here today, and God damn it these earlier days, about the flag. Whoever came out here was talking about the flag and who lives and who doesn't live in Kragujevac. I worked for a couple of years at the flag, for 20 years I worked in a Kraguje factory in different places. For the president of the city government, I've come from a leading projector. It doesn't stand there, Lords of the Radicals when they say, lift your fingers and let's see which one of you worked in production. There's a lot of us here. I'm interested in how many of them worked in production. I don't even know if Toma Nikolic worked in production, ever. Okay. You know what, go out and talk about the flag, anybody can. The key problems are flag and water supply. Here, thank God, for these two and a half years, the Kragujevac has not lost a single day of water. I remember a time some years ago when we lost water for two or three months. The Kragujevac has a huge, bulky water supply system. I may be repeating myself with Aca, but good. It's a system of reni wells from Morava, it's an old system from Grosnica Lake and this big, famous and most expensive, and it's from the Georgian lake, it's this big artificial lake. It's miles and hundreds of miles of network. It's so out of date; 10-15 days ago in one of the main Kragujeva streets the highway was cracked; do you know how old the pipe was - 58 years old. We can't solve it, we have losses somewhere over 50% healthy, drinking water. Believe me, I've been going around the world these years, and everywhere, the water is profitable, it's being sold. To us in Kragujevac, and I believe in Novi Sad and Nis, to us healthy water, for which we are paying chemicals, paying for all the devices, it goes to our country. It's that story about that loan and it's completely unclear to me that simply from some of your political loyalty these gentlemen have left. We will vote this for sure and I am convinced, and I know that the citizens of Kragujevac will surely understand what I am telling them. At the very least, they know what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26980	I thank the People's MP. The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristic, and the next declared word is MP Milan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26981	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a bill that means a great deal to the citizens of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. Water is life. For centuries, cities and settlements have been created by water. If the 20th century was significant in terms of fighting for oil springs, they say the 21st century will be marked by fighting for drinking water sources. You have heard many data from my colleagues and the special exposure of Goran Ciric, Mayor of Nis, he has so broadcastly asked all of you and pointed to all the problems of the Nis citizens due to the lack of drinking water. You have also heard that the springs have certain betrayals and that there are delusions about the fact that the springs are betrayed to such an extent that we can consume unsatisfactory water and that we can treat it in a way that is inexhaustible treasure. Given such limited resources and the fact that the obsolescence of the water and sewerage network in Nis creates a loss of 40% of pure processed drinking water, by the quality of one of the best in the country, it creates an obligation for the city's government to service the needs of citizens and provide a municipal system in such a way as to reduce the losses and costs of water processing in drinking water, but also to provide water in suburban villages, villages and altitude zones that throughout the summer have problems with the supply of fresh drinking water. I am therefore surprised by the irresponsibility of our coalition partners from Nis, Mr Adzic, vice-president of the Niš City Assembly, Mr Vojinovic, the DSS MP from the town of Nis, Mr Stamenkovic, the opposition representative in parliament, Mr Pantelic, also the opposition MP in parliament, but above all for the reasons of life. It seems to me, and I think everyone here is convinced, too, that we must not be divided politically about the things that life means. I don't see any reason, even if we were fighting and fighting today at this session, that our colleagues come out and don't support the adoption of a law that represents vital to the citizens of Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. We're all talking about strategic, state and national interests. State and national interests are currently based on solidarity. I therefore expect all MPs, regardless of where they came from, to vote in favour of the counter-guarantee law, which provides significant funds for the revitalisation of municipal systems in these three cities. I led a board of directors at the local heat that was able to secure the revitalization of that municipal system. Kilometers of hot water have changed in the last four years since the democratic government in Nis. I also expect the municipal water supply system to be provided in Nis through donations through our infrastructure, and this also means new employment of construction firms to do these specific jobs. You know it is necessary for the law to be passed by March 3rd, the funds are already provided, intended and should be exploited by then. I can understand the abstinence of individuals leaving this session, but I can't understand direct obstruction, I can't understand the desire of our coalition partners to go to a regular session and not allow the adoption of a counter-guarantee law that means drinking water for the citizens of Nis. It means for small children to be able to bathe, to be thirsty, that our clinical center can have a proper drink that can later be sterilized. I expect all of you MPs, no matter where they come from, to support this law, to adopt it so that we can use this time and get the funds on March 3rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26982	The word has a folk MP Milan Milosavljevic, and the next declared word is MP Marin Kresic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26983	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really need to tell you that you're so patiently sitting down to apologize, that I don't count on what time it is today, but I really had to call to come out for this pay phone and say a few words on the subject of this bill that's on the agenda tonight. I'd like to try, and maybe I'm the third, fourth or fifth one tonight who's trying to, and hopefully we'll succeed, to call first and foremost on all of our fellow MPs, and first of all, Nishli. I am speaking to these MPs from Nis, gentlemen from Nis, return to the O.R. tonight so that you can return to Nis. Nislims who see this will not forgive you unless Nis gets a loan of 6m euros unless he gets 3.5m euros in donations. With the money the city has prepared, it amounts to about 12.5m euros, through the need for Nis to finally resolve the water supply issue for centuries and centuries, certainly for the next 100 years. I really don't know how Mr. Slobodan Adzic, vice-president of the Niš City Assembly, a man who receives nearly 40,000 dinars in the city of Nis for the second year of each month, which is unfortunately chosen by the citizens of Nis in 2000. He's got that place to take care of Nis. I repeat, for two years it has been receiving, for the conditions of this state of Serbia, a very high salary. He comes to the meetings of the Republic Assembly, takes orderly journals, and today he has taken the living room, and he is not in the O.R. when it comes to daily politics, which the DSS has become used to these days, but is about resolving the life issue for Nis and other cities. You'll excuse me, I'm only talking about Nis tonight and allow me to be a local patriot. Mr. Dragoljub Vojnović, a specialist doctor, a regular professor of the Faculty of Medicine in Nis, has spent his whole life in Nis, working in Nis, working for Nis. Tonight, when Nisha is needed as a republican MP, who was also elected by Nishi, he is also not in this room because of the DSS' daily politics. Mr. Vojnovic, I know you're looking at me somewhere in your MP club. Have a little morality and a little consciousness, go back to this room and don't let the scrawny interests distract you from what is your duty tonight, which is to think about Nis and Nislims. Mr. Dragoljub Stemenkovic, though in opposition, a very radical, brave radical, 10 years MP in the Republic Parliament. Nis citizens on three occasions chose him to represent citizens in this parliament. I'm sure he won't anymore, but I'm getting the circumstances and he's here in this term. For ten years Mr. Stamenkovic has enjoyed the benefits of the parliamentary life, if these are some benefits. If nothing else, enjoys the financial benefits of Parliament's life, thanks to the Nislims who sent him here. It also won't help Nislim tonight when Nis is due to receive a loan and a loan of over 10m euros to resolve the life issue. Mr. Dragan Pantelic, a top athlete, has really represented and represented this country for decades and above all Nis around the world, and he is not in this assembly tonight, and has also been sent here by Nisli to take care of his city and the people who live in it. I'm really wondering if these four Nis MPs will have any cheeks, first of all. Of course, nothing bad will happen to them. They will return to Nis, nisa are broad-hearted, even for such traitors as they are when they betray the interests of their city. But I do wonder if they will have the nerve to look at Nislims, their neighbours, into their eyes; whether they will have the cheek to appear on Vinik to explain to his inhabitants why they will not have water this year unless this bill is passed; whether they will look into the eyes of the inhabitants of the Marble and the Marble stream and explain to them why they will not have water in the peak summer months this year unless this bill is passed tonight. It takes explaining to all Nislims why we won't be able to change the pipelines that are sometimes over 70 years old, where the losses on the network are more than 40%, and in certain parts of the city even 60%. Nishli, I address you, those who look at me tonight, and who know what this means, what this loan means, and this donation to the city of Nis -- have understanding for these MPs who are not here tonight, and they should represent you with us in this House and think well of you, Nis residents. Because of you, resident Nis, I'm going to start going through the Assembly building right now to try to convince them to go down to the O.R. and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26984	The word is made by MP Marin Kresic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26985	This morning I had no idea to report on this agenda point, thinking it was something quite normal, natural and civilizational, that it belonged to some normal investment cycles and that there was no room for any special discussion. But today he simply made me say two or three things from this pay phone. Friends from our former coalition party, one of them today said they are not a party that loves when people are worse and when Serbia goes worse; they allegedly do not want it, they vote for the right things. I'm asking-- is it worse or better to do all this stuff that we just talked about? Next in line is the King's. We know the problems of infrastructure. You get to read the law on planning and building and you see in it how much effort is made to open investment cycles and to create investment instruments, to pave the way for efficient planning, efficient design and efficient construction. What does that have to do with politics? About the King and the Problems of the Kings, Mr. Petrovic may be able to say more. That's what he used to say here once. I want to point out a little detail that has to do with politics. The communal arrangement, investment in city development, planning the future, that's the way to the JJ century. Maybe the political program is going back to that century when we didn't have the infrastructure, we didn't have the roads, we didn't have the resources. Maybe there's a difference in politics whether we're going to J.J.I. or J.J.G. century.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26986	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26987	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the National MPs of the Serbian Parliament, the law on the agenda shows practically how much competent financial institutions of Europe have confidence in our local leadership, Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad, and not to talk about the previously expressed trust in Belgrade's leadership, when they have allocated us financial resources to carry out infrastructure works and to improve the quality of life of the citizens of Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Belgrade and other cities, to improve the overall standard of living, not only for the citizens of these cities but also for the citizens of Serbia. So, this law is an expression of the kind of trust of European financial institutions, but also an expression of the ability of Niš, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Belgrade and all other cities to use grant funds, funds from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. After all, it is also an expression of confidence in the new government run by DOS, as financial institutions do not invest funds where they do not trust the current government. If I were the director of television transmissions from this assembly, I would order the cameramen to fix the ranks of this parliament, let the citizens remember well those sitting in this parliament at this moment -- those persons are concerned about the needs and interests of Serbian citizens, to create conditions for a much better life for citizens in Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Belgrade and other cities. And let citizens and these cities and all of Serbia remember well whose faces are not in this room, and they often went out for this pay phone, with pure nihilistic messages, saying that everything we do is wrong. Today, as the worst cowards have fled this hall, because they know that voting this law will practically be a direct indicator of trust in this government, not only local in Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Belgrade and other cities, but in total power in Serbia. That's what citizens of all Serbia need to know, and that's why I recommended that the cameramen get a good fix on the faces in the O.R., so we know who's not there, so the citizens know who to vote for in the future. There is nothing more normal than the recommendation that MPs in this hall are known to support this legislative project, as it is practically coming up next week to meet the short needs of improving the quality of life of citizens in these three cities, who have also received financial support for their projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26988	Thank you. Since there are no more entries for the word, I ask if any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has the Minister of Local Self-Government and State Administration, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26989	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is probably almost impossible to say anything more after the presentation of representatives of local self-government to consume this loan. There's been a lot of things said, and I'm not going to say it again. I just want to remind you that we need to do a very easy but terribly important thing today; I said point to "i". Let me remind you, this is about solving an extremely important, vital, perhaps most vital problem; it is about water, that three of the largest cities, I repeat after Belgrade, have a solution to the water problem. That's what someone's been doing seriously before us. So, the people responsible, in these local self-governments, have done some kind of infrastructure reconstruction programs in these cities. A programme for reconstruction of infrastructure unmistakably developed over a period of 10 or 15 years, without investing anything in it and being brought to the brink of collapse. Afterwards, someone negotiated with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and succeeded in achieving recognition of the programme's validity. Afterwards, someone still worked, so the Federal Assembly ratified the agreements and gave a guarantee of the implementation of these projects. Today, the most natural thing possible, like the Republic in which these three local self-governments are, is to give counterguarantee and thus allow the most robust investment to take place in something extremely important over the last 10 years. It's amazing, or it's gonna be amazing, if we can't do it today. I'm stressing, it's a completely dissident thing, it's about drinking water. I stress one more thing: a few days ago, by not adopting the law on concessions, we sent a strange message to those who need to consume the law. The message can be understood - well, you know, we don't actually need funds, we don't even care to facilitate concessions. I cannot believe that MPs of this assembly today can be so irresponsible as to send another message -- no, we don't need money to reconstruct vital infrastructure systems. Once again, I call upon all MPs to support this law without any doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26990	I would like to thank Mr. Secretary and to conclude the search in principle. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 9th amendment. The Financial Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26991	Dear colleagues, I will give a brief explanation of the amendment. The bill says that the law, after its adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will take effect eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger. After this relationship with the MPs who left the hall, it seems a little strange, but I wanted to cut that deadline, because this is in an emergency procedure, and I suggested that this law enter into force on the day of adoption, because we took over our commitments with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We want to be correct partners, because February 28th is today. I think that would be the right message for all the other cities, because if we show that we can rightly and responsibly do what we have left behind, we can expect further support. So I thank all those who have accepted and supported this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-28-0.u26992	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask - does the proposing's representative want another word? No, I don't. So you accept the amendment? The minister does not want the closing word, but says the government accepts this amendment to Article 9, which was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular, and I'm setting a break by 8:30, when we approach the vote. [[After break - 20.50.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum and that we can approach the vote. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing Law on Privatization After we have conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act in principle. For 124, against two, three of the 129 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. I remind you that the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 142(4), is paragraph 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete amendments to the members of 43rd and 49th by MP Zlata Đerić; that during the search of the Bill in the details of the amendment, the MPs Novica Djurasković and Zoran Boskovic were withdrawn to Article 12; that it was established that they were an integral part of the Bill's proposal became: Amendment to Article 12, which was submitted by MP Srđa Popović; Amendment to Article 12, which was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatović, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentjevic, Meso Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo; Amendment to Article 22, which was submitted by the National MP Slobodan Radulović. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments to the 1st National MP, Stevan Kesejić. Against 123, abstention one, not three, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments to Article 2 submitted by the MPs of the SPS group, headed by Jovan Todorovic. Against 123, four of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 2nd People's MP Bozidar Vukurovic's vote. Against 123, four of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to MEP Gordana Pop-Lazic, who suggested adding a new member of 2a after Article 2. For one, against 121, five out of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Member of the 3rd People's MP, Peter Jojic. Against 122, five of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments to Article 5, which were jointly tabled by the MPs of the SPS group, headed by Jovana Todorovic. Against 120, it did not vote seven out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments to Article 6 tabled by the MPs of the SPS group, headed by Jovan Todorovic. Against 120, it did not vote seven out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 6 together by the MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatović, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Meho Omerović, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The government has accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. For 119, against four, a abstentioned one, three of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. I am putting the amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. For one, against 121, five out of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 6 which were jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. Against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote six out of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 8 together by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajic, Momir Radoičić, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelkovic and Joca Arsic. Against 122, five of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajic, Rade Bajic, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Zivanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic. Against 121, abstention one, not five, of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 10, which were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Against 121, six of the 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic as member of the 11th. For 2, versus 120, 5 did not vote, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments tabled by a group of MPs, led by MP Jovan Todorovic. Against 122, 5 were not voted, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on article 11. In total, 126 MPs did not vote against 122. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by a group of MPs, whose representative is the senior MP Vlatko Sekulovic, on Article 11. For 32, against 89, there was no vote of 6, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 12th joint vote by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Against 119, there was no vote of 8, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Radic Jokovic to article 12. Against 120, a abstention one, did not vote 6, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Alexander Vukic on Article 13. Against 121, there was no vote of 6, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 14. Against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 126 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Miroljub Veljkovic to article 15. Against 119, there was no vote of 8, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments tabled by a group of MPs, led by MP Jovan Todorovic. Against 121, there was no vote of 6, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by a group of Members of the People's Parliament on 19th, whose representative is the National MP, Miroslav Christodulo. For 25, against 95, abstentions, three were not voted by 4, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Radic Jokovic to article 19. Against 115, the two abstentions were not voted by 10, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to the vote the amendments tabled on Article 20 by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, whose authorised representative was MP, Miroslav Christodulo. For 29, v 91, abstention one, did not vote 6, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 20. For one, against 117, there was no 9 vote, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic on Article 20. Against 120, it did not vote 7, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments of the group of MPs of the SPS parliamentary group on Article 20, whose representative is MP Jovan Todorovic. Against 119, there was no vote of 8, a total of 127 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Vojislav Jankovic to article 20. For 20, against 94, two abstentions, were not voted by 11, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Radic Jokovic to article 20. Against 116, with four abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Kovacevic to article 20. For 42, against 77, two abstentions, did not vote 6, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted to article 21 in the same text jointly by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urosevic and joint MPs Jovan Todorovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Jovanovic, Golub Rajić, Rade Bajic, Momir Radoic, Đura Lazić, Živanko Radovančev, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miomir Ilic, Zoran R. Angelković and Joca Arsic. Against 120, it did not vote 7, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am voting on amendments submitted to article 22 by MPs of the SPS group, headed by MP Jovan Todorovic. Against 121, there was no vote of 6, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in Article 25. The draft law provides a feedback to this provision. In accordance with Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly particularly decides whether there is a general interest in this feedback. The Finance Committee has established that there is a general interest in the feedback. I put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the feedback of Article 25. The bill, for which, according to the government's assessment, there is a general interest. For 118, against one, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by a group of MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, whose representative was MP Vlatko Sekulovic, who was proposed to add a new member after Article 25. For 32, against 88, with five abstentions, two, a total of 127 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act in general. For 123, against two, abstentioned one, one did not vote, a total of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation in general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a CONTRAGATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE AS A GUARANT TO THE EUROPEAN REFERENCE AND RETAINING COUNTRY OF SERBIA, TO THE CITY AND TO THE CITY OF NEW NOW THAT WE HAVE UNDERSTANDED THE Proposal for a Law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the loan of the town of Kragujevac, the town of Nis and the town of Novi Sad, in principle. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 9 submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Since it was the only amendment submitted to the bill, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development by loan to the town of Kragujevac, the town of Nis and the town of Novi Sad in general. He did not vote for 126, one of 127 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. After discussing and deciding all the points of the agenda, I conclude the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. One brief notice. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Urban and Civil Engineering will present the draft laws on planning and construction of all interested parliamentary groups, and we would like to invite you to set a term for your parliamentary group. I thank you for your work and for the effort you've made. I'll see you soon.
