ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28088	I would point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure that took place yesterday in the afternoon of the National Assembly session. In that time, the chairman, Mrs Comic, severely violated the provisions of Article 103(1), which reads as follows: "The measure of confiscation of words is expressed to the MP who had previously been given two measures of warning, which also makes it a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 102 of the Rules of Procedure". I'll read part of the stenographic notes from that part of the session, where Mrs. Pop-Lazic said, "It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I would beg, based on Article 82. Rules of Procedure, to determine whether there is a quorum for the work of this assembly. We know there's a Star-Partizan basketball game at 6:00 p.m., probably the MPs went to that game. "Afterwards she responded immediately to the chairman and said: "People's MP, the Rules of Procedure obliges you not to present the facts of the private life of other persons. You cannot have any information about the motives, wishes, and the proclivities of other MPs, so I give you a warning. "As that would be the third warning, by some logic of the matter, the word was taken away. But first, it is the abuse of something that stands in the Rules of Procedure -- the discretionary authority of the president; I must say that according to the Rules of Procedure, such authority is not owned by the President of the National Assembly, nor by the Chairman, because the president, or chair of the work force, and within that ageing, as the first among the equal, can express the measures, and what is called discretionary authority applies primarily to the official person of a state authority, who, in the exercise of that official duty, when he solves certain rights, can choose what is most comprehensive. Since this is about measures establishing order, there is practically this legal ban and the inability to apply discretionary powers. Since nothing has been stated here about the private life of some individuals, and that is what a few pages ahead of this point, where one of the MPs said -- we understand the motives of those politicians, etc., and for this we have not received a warning, we suggest, on behalf of the SRS, that this be declared by the Administrative Board and returned to the legal state throughout this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28089	You actually had a proposal for the Administrative Board to decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since I am also obliged to say whether there is an injury, I do not believe that there is any and that the chairman has acted in accordance with Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We continue to work on the 2nd point of the agenda. Members of the 3rd amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović, Mirko Rosic and Milos Lucic. The Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. National MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulović, Mirko Rosic and Milos Lucic withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 3. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, George Mamul. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28090	Article 4 states that criminal offences for organised crime under Articles 1 and 2 of this Act in which the indictment took effect until the date of entry into force of this law will be brought to an end before the courts which were competent and under the procedure provided for in the rules applicable to these offences until the date of entry into force of this law. I think it is a better solution, although some think it is the same-criminal procedure for the crimes of organised crime that have started until the day of entry into force of this law will continue under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Criminal Procedure. I see that there is now an intervention with Article 4 that this law is valid for only 90 days. So all the work on the amendment, the preparation for the debate on the members of the law, the essence of the law, goes into the wind, because the law will only apply 90 days and after 90 days the law that is now in force, which we agreed was bad and should be passed a whole new law. Why am I telling you this - yesterday, on the Justice Committee, Mr. Hiber, the chairman of the Committee, says the proposed law is South American law. Is South American law supposed to apply for 90 days? Look, that's what the chairman of the Justice and Law School Committee said, not someone from the opposition. He probably knows better than that, but then that means Pinochet and Society. I don't give five bucks for one junta, let alone 90 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28091	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, the applicant for the amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal of Article 4 provides: "The criminal offences of organised crime under Articles 1 and 2 of this law in which the indictment came into force until the day of the entry into force of this law will end before the courts which were competent and under the procedure provided for in the regulations applicable to these offences until the day of the entry into force of this law." On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, and I have proposed to be in Article 4. The bill of the word "the indictment has entered into legal force" replaces the words "are suspects and detained or in custody", which would mean - if the proceedings were brought against them. The proposed standard foresees retroactivity. The amendment allows competent authorities to work. Therefore, I think this amendment should be adopted, because in that case, in any case, the amendment would be improved by the content of the Article 4 of this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 4. However, we SRS MPs have not received a report, nor has we received an amendment to this report, which was delivered to the MPs on 9 April. We do not know what is going on with this amendment and what it refers to and what its contents would change in the provisions of Article 4. I would also point out that the Committee on Justice and Administration has also submitted an amendment to Article 4, which reads: "The National Assembly, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, will review the provisions of Articles 15v, 15g and 15d". First, I believe that the Committee on Justice and Administration does not have the authority to submit amendments, if it decides on amendments of Members of Parliament or Government. Secondly, this standard, proposed in the amendment, is absolutely inapplicable. It would be better here to say that the provisions of Article 4 relating to the provisions of Articles 15v, 15g and 15d shall cease to apply after 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law. I think there's been a discrepancy here and this is going to be difficult to apply. This predicts retroactivity, but I do not see any justification and so far I have not found in the positive - legal regulations that such a provision in the positive regulation; and especially this regulation, which has very repressive measures, should not be incorporated into this law, because it will not be easily enforceable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28093	People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28094	This article refers to something that could be placed in the transitional and final provisions of a classical law. However, this article sees the problem of this law, because according to the style and manner of writing and what this member defines, it definitely concerns the provisions of criminal proceedings, not the matter of the organisation and the jurisdiction of the authority. That's why there's this ridiculous formulation, where it's even said "criminal acts of organized crime" and it's tied to the date when the indictment came into effect. The follow-up of the text, in practice, should serve us to determine who will be the competent authority and what procedure these crimes will be solved in. The competent authority has been designated and it is known to be a particularly larger District Court in Belgrade, as a first-degree body, and a special department of the Court of Appeal, as a second-degree body. Practically, this member needs to get rid of this vacuum that exists, because we don't actually have those judicial organs. However, it is done in a way that deserves a special comment, because of a suspicion that may arise in connection with the application of this indictment law. That is why SRS MPs have tied it to something that is a concrete event, which is an act of detention and detention as the first actions in the process of lighting up these crimes. I don't believe there's some kind of indictment that came into effect, which would be an indication that the old organs are working. There's probably no such thing. Practically, it means that the authority of the new authorities for the old works will be established. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, which ceased to apply in 1977 because of the adoption of a new law, there was a similar provision that defined the conduct of first-degree and second-degree bodies and accurately determined the stage of the proceedings and, depending on what procedural provisions would be used - whether the old code or the new law were at that time. This is a bright proof that this law has exceeded the authority to regulate the essential procedure with a large number of provisions of this bill, which is not the matter of this law. As a result, it approaches this flat-rate solution which is practically independent from the date of detention, from the date of closure, detention, and all people are placed in one basket and in front of some new authorities, before some new rules, not the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but the rules contained in the chapter called - the special powers of the competent authorities. Perhaps such a wording of this article shows the senselessness of previous members, and perhaps this is the wording of Article 4 a bright example and proof of why this bill should not be voted on. As for other proposals on how to get rid of Article 4 matter, there is inaccuracy, because the start of a criminal procedure, if that were to happen, would allow both the prosecution and the court to assess when the criminal proceedings began, which could be very dangerous, given that we are on the field of human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28095	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28096	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Government, I just want to say that the Government accepts the amendment of the Justice Committee to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28097	Okay, that's the next amendment. So, the Justice and Administration Committee based... Well, they already mentioned in the debate that amendment, they talked more about the amendment than about theirs. The Board of Justice and Administration shall, on the basis of Article 144. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible and the proposing representative has adopted this amendment, so that I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. He can't, he became an integral part of the bill, and then there's no debate, and you've already talked about that amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28098	I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, and I suggest that article 5 be deleted. The proposal states that the law will enter into force the next day after the publication in "The Official Messenger". In accordance with the provisions of Article 120 of the Treaty on the The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law enters into force at the earliest eight days since the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger". The law has no reason for its earlier entry into force, especially given that the state of emergency has been introduced in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28099	People's MP Zoran Krasic, and then MP Dragan Todorovic, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28100	The Constitution tells us that when we set a date for the entry into force of a regulation, we apply that provision of the Constitution which says it enters the eighth day from the day of its publication. There is no particularly justified reason why this law would have to enter the next day from the day of its publication. That there really is no reason for this to best prove the amendment to Article 4a and this statement by the Government to accept this amendment, because it simply means nothing if it is stated that within 90 days of the entry into force of this law, it will review some of the provisions of the law, and today we are adopting it. We do not have the authority to reconsider, we have the authority to change and to bring, and the integrity, justification, efficiency of certain provisions of the law assesses whoever has the status of legislator, scientific institutions, those who professionally deal with these areas, they can question, demand, to determine, but we ourselves to commit and to say - after 90 days, we will review...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28101	You're talking about an amendment to Article 4, please stick to the subject...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28102	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 5. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28103	Yes, to article 5, which speaks of publication, of entry into force.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28104	Yes, ma'am, it is said here that it will take effect the next day from the day of publication, and I appeal and demand that a constitutional norm be applied that says it enters into force on the eighth day of publication. I just point out that obviously the promoter had problems when he proposed this provision of Article 5, because it proves it with Article 4a, where he practically wants to commit the National Assembly to review something he proposed to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly adopted it; he asked that it enter into force immediately, not within eight days, because we cannot question it within eight days. Why would they question you within 90 days? We are reviewing this solution today, and this is an act of reviewing the integrity, justification, whether or not human rights are really being violated, whether we can be more effective in fighting organised crime, because we later have some laws, we from the Serbian Radical Party have proposed drastic penalties, from minimum to maximum, to stand behind the neck of this organised crime, there are many elements of the white collar. So if we want to be an authority and ask everyone to respect the Constitution and the law, we must first respect the Constitution and the law. The constitution says, at the earliest of the eighth day since the day of publication. There's a lot of reasons why that deadline is eight days, and maybe it's not some longer term. We for some laws give far longer deadlines and five, six months and determine the date when the law should enter into force. I guess there's a request here to adopt this as soon as possible to clear up some things about organized crime. We probably all support that, but we're asking for it to be within the limits and the way it's prescribed by the Constitution; we need to raise our voice when the government scares us with its amendment, so it says, you have to question what you voted for within 90 days. Why should we question, I guess today we're sure of what we're voting for, why in 90 days' time, why don't we review it within three days, within two days? This is unserious of the promoter because it's in a legal impasse where it's going to devalue a little of the good things that have been done in this period. That's why I'm saying that this law should come into force the way the Constitution provides, and this review, we all question each other every day for what we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28105	The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28106	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our amendment is precisely in the request for respect by the Constitution of the provisions on the necessary deadline, which is precisely called vacatio legis, and it serves to meet those to which the law applies to the provisions of the same law. It may be funny to some, it may not be, but such restrictive provisions, such a law that introduces police detention for up to five or six months, which deprives and degrades human rights to a level contrary to the provisions of international conventions, the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, must be put to the attention of citizens (because this is about humiliating civil liberties), in order to have time to get to know the provisions of such a restrictive bill. Therefore, the essence of our amendment is to comply with the provisions laid down in Article 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to be the shortest eight days since its publication date for the entry into force of a law. I didn't hear anyone say, thank you, I thought. So that's why we've proposed a solution like this that, in the end, only provides for people to get acquainted with the provisions of this law. As for the absence of a clear concept, and this formulation proposed in Article 5, that this law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", says in a contribution that we have repeatedly explained - that the concept of this law is unclear, subject to changes in walking and that the motion itself does not have a clear vision of how it should be established in our country, which would serve a valid and constant fight against organised crime. In addition to this, the fact that amendments have been made by the motion itself, so from the Government; so some amendment groups of MPs from the parliamentary majority to Article 3, as far as I could see, have been withdrawn, and they would have to support this bill; so we also had little time to propose an amendment to Article 4a, where a new Article 4a is added, that the National Assembly should meet within 90 days, and review the provisions of the members, etc. This again clearly confirms the absence of a crystal clear concept in the concept of such a legislative proposal, with very difficult reflections on fundamental human rights and citizens' freedoms. As a result, we have proposed on behalf of the SPS, and the respected Mr. Hranislav Peric, to amend and supplement the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, not immediately after publication in the Official Messenger, but to ensure that the minimum time limit of eight days is respected. This will make it possible, however, that, hopefully, with a slightly modified form of such a law, citizens are slowly getting to know each other. I hope you'll have an understanding for our explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28107	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, and the Proposer's representative does not want to give the final word, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal, in particular. We will decide on the draft law in principle and in particular in the voting day. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the arms and ammunition laws (single) you have received a proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You received an amendment submitted by MP Joca Arsic. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee. Since a joint principled search has been carried out, under which the proposal for this law has been discussed, we are moving to a discussion in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Committee on Defence and Security has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28108	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. As you have heard, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the Security Committee has not accepted it. The proposal for our amendment is set out in the following: to be in the position of Article 1(1). (changed in Article 33) The lower limit shall be maintained and the upper limit (of no more than five years) shall be left as previously established in this law. So instead of one to five years, we propose to stay from one to three years; as I said before it was -- six months to three years. We believe that this proposal will be more effective and that the proposed law will be better implemented. Normally, we, like all others, are fully aware that these changes given in that same article in attitude 2 and attitude 3 should be tightened by these threatened time limits of at least three years and at least five years. It's about the hard parts. In the first position is one broader coverage - unauthorized procurement, holding, carrying, making and exchange, so that this threatened sentence of five years is large, because it is about different parts, different degrees of responsibility, so by conducting a criminal policy at a certain time it is possible to impose maximum penalties. As I was saying, since the various parts of this sentence have been threatened, we believe that the upper limit of five years is too high, that it should remain from one to three years. That would be our commitment and the explanation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28109	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28110	This article strengthens prison sentences for a crime that has a very complicated name - unauthorized procurement, holding, carrying, making, exchanging or selling firearms, ammunition or explosive materials. The amendment shall practically intervene with regard to the range of minimum and maximum penalties for this offence. I must say that in 1992, when this law was passed, even later when it was amended, certain provisions of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia were devalued because it was estimated, at that time, that the high degree of social danger was unauthorized possession or any unauthorized contact with weapons. However, this law treats not only weapons, but swords and knives, and everything that can be placed in the category of dangerous things. Surely with this amendment I want to help, first of all, the one who has to apply this law. In the name of the crime, there are different levels of social danger, starting with the listing of the store, and through the content of the item 1, item 2 to item 3. We'll all agree on Items 2 and 3 that there is a need for really rigorous penalties, because there is no reasonable reason for a citizen as an individual to own automatic weapons, salt, pitchers, bombs, explosives, etc. Perhaps there is no need for more significant intervention on the bill. When it comes to the usual, to say the normal weapon that a man can possess, which is some gun, a hunting rifle, I believe that in both variants as minimum penalties are prescribed for extremely strict penalties. It is not that level of social danger, as both the promoter and the applicant of the amendment have stated. We here can very easily determine that there are at least 30 more objects that are much more dangerous than holding a trophy gun in an apartment that hasn't been reported. He hasn't been reported for various reasons. Like, he inherited a man from his father, and he didn't go to the M.P. to get his gun license. Put that man in jail for a year or more, that's unwarranted. There's a greater danger, say, than 200 liters of oil in the basement; there's a greater danger if an unskilled immoral person has, in addition to a holding permit, and a license to carry a weapon. Secondly, we must all imagine the question of who does all this in the security services. Many people have the legitimacy of a service, regardless of whether it's a service agency or an official state body; we can worry about whether those persons are qualified and whether they have a moral right to do so, if their file is looked at, say, a copy of the criminal record, what their criminal history is. These people are practically amnesty, and they're allowed to hold, carry, handle, abuse, abuse. You know, when an object is owned, it can be used, but it can be misused. That's the danger. I believe that prescribing these great punishments for something that does not pose a threat, which is just holding...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28111	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28113	You want a word, too? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28114	The essence of our amendment is that, for unauthorized procurement, holding, carrying, making, exchange or selling firearms, ammunition or explosive matter, a sentence of one to five years is not determined, but that a compromise is made from the existing solution, which provides for a sentence from six months to three years, given that it is easier to criminalise than a criminal offence provided for in Articles 2 and 3. Weapons and ammunition laws. So, to give a solution and to predict punishment from one to three years. This, however, would be met with the tightening of criminal policy in the area, and there would be no drastic increase which, in the extreme line, would be contrary to the very criminal policy which has shown countless times that, if criminal provisions increase drastically, this does not necessarily mean that the objective of tightening the criminal policy will be achieved. Thus, if the penalties provided for are raised to heaven, as was the case in some societies in the late 19th century, it does not necessarily mean that potential perpetrators of the crime will fear such punishment and will not resort to the execution of the crime. However, it seems that the proposal's prevailing opinion, more specifically the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the legislator of this set of laws, seems to be in force, that this retributive policy should be very much used here with us and in our case. Unfortunately, experience in history and comparative law say that such a retributive criminal policy cannot be justified and cannot praise some better results, except in a short period of time. But the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the promoter of this set of laws, does not seem to be aimed at solving the problem of organised crime in the long term and the problem of a concrete law relating to weapons and ammunition, in order to find solutions; I would not be surprised that, after a certain period of 30, 90 or 60 days, solutions are re-changed and re-assessed in front of the National Assembly, in order to find solutions suitable for the situation in which our society is located, it has not been shorter for a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28115	The People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28116	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, much more important in the fight against organised crime is prevention, and the fear that the perpetrator of the crime will be caught is much stronger than the punishment that will follow. Prevention is something that we need to do, as well as improve other services. Raising punishment, in itself, can and does not have to give effects, but prevention, that is, improving efficiency in detecting perpetrators, such as this and such as others, is much more important. In theory, if you look at it, there are analyses of people who are dealing with it and are still at the end of the 19th century, and this was mentioned by counterpart Todorovic, who set out not to solve the issue of organised crime in their own right, but that prevention is something much better, that dragon penalties will not solve the issue of organised crime. It was not the result of a mild criminal policy and a mild penalty in our laws that just increased crime in Serbia, but the weak detection of perpetrators of crimes. The whole system, where the judges have issued weak sentences, where there have been a lot of paroles, which has been mentioned here, where the perpetrators of serious crimes have not been discovered, has led to an increase in organised crime. That's why it's so bad that now, for some marketing purposes, you're using a penalty-lifting measure. It is much more important to establish the services that need to be dealt with and cut down on corruption. It is also an extremely important and crucial thing, perhaps, in the fight against organised crime in the prosecutions, in the judiciary, in the MUP, in the executive and other types of government, because this way is much more achieved than by raising criminal measures. We need to deal, first of all, with prevention, and I think we'll have far better results than with dragons raising sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28117	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) This concludes the examination of the draft law in particular, and since the proposing's representative is not present, he does not want me to give the final word, I conclude the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the High Council of Justice (single) you have received a proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric, Slobodan Tomovic, Golub Rajic, Nebojsa Jovic and together Miomir Ilic and Joca Arsic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since we have carried out a joint principled search, under which this bill has been discussed, we are moving to a discussion in particular, i.e. I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28118	In accordance with the principle of power-sharing, the inadmissible interference of the executive in the judicial authority is, therefore, unacceptable to confiscate the powers of the High Council of Justice to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. In this case, prosecutors and deputies will be proposed by the government and the minister, which means that the judiciary will depend on the executive authority. Under the bill, we will not reach an independent judiciary and a prosecutor. It's clear here, and if the proposal is made by the minister, then when you make a decision, you have to carry out the minister's orders. If the government makes a proposal, then you'll have to work on government orders. This way of work will not improve democracy in Serbia, nor will it create an independent judiciary, as it often knows to the public that Minister Batic says. Under the proposed law, court personnel will function by staffing the prosecutors and deputies and eventually being party prosecutors and deputies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28119	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28120	At first, I must point out that the Serbian Radical Party will not support this amendment for purely principled reasons, as our concept of the existence and status of the High Council of Justice differs. We also believe that this change, which is proposed in this law, which follows the corresponding changes in the Law on Public Prosecutors, goes towards this concept of ours and our position on these changes, we have practically expressed through the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors. For this part of the debate, I think one principled attitude is important. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on a public prosecutor has several provisions. It is important to make the first provision of the chapter, which says the public prosecutor is an independent body, and is independent only in the part concerning the prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences and the possibility of bringing legal means to protect constitutionality and legality. In the end, all these bodies, which are mentioned in the Chapter of the Constitution, are doing the job of protecting constitutionality and legality, and thus also basic human rights and all that follows on this basis. The public prosecutor has a specific position and he is never as close to the executive authority as he is to the legislative authority. He doesn't belong there. The government absolutely has no business in the matter of the prosecution, except for the security of conditions for normal functioning, but that is also the government's obligation to other authorities. That's why we're generally against the proposal that the government interferes with business and staffing when it comes to prosecutors, whether they're deputies or just public prosecutors. I would point to another provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the continuity of the public prosecutor's office. Under procedural laws, the deputy, regardless of the level of the public prosecutor, has almost the same rights and obligations when it comes to the conduct of proceedings, persecution and investment of legal means in order to protect constitutionality and legality. I don't think the promoter took care of it. He proposed a law that puts practically under his control, and an absolute and complete prosecutor's office. The fact that the public prosecutor's provision does not state that he is independent and independent, as it stands when it comes to court, does not mean that he is so close to the executive authority that he can appoint deputies, to staff, to set up a debate. The public prosecutor must be within a decent distance, and in terms of appointment and election, he must be in the jurisdiction of the person who makes the rules and who requests that authority to protect his rules. That is why we cannot support this amendment, because it is contrary to our whole concept of the place and the role of the public prosecutor in the constitutional system.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28121	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here's a word from the People's Councilman, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28122	The prosecution is not a classical judicial body, it's more of a administrative judicial body that deals with the affairs described in its jurisdiction, meaning the detection of the perpetrator of criminal offences. He is, in some ways, a party to the procedure. It is interesting that since 2001 the government has had different relations with the very nature of the prosecution and the way of the election. In 2001, the government advocated, because of the nature of things, that the deputy prosecutors share responsibility, as well as the prosecutors themselves, that there was simply no need for their status to differ -- it stood up for their continuity and that they were elected by the Assembly. To remind ourselves, the Serbian Constitution has regulated that they are only public prosecutors, meaning no deputies, permanent and elected by the Assembly, and the deputy public prosecutors have been left for their status to be governed specifically by the law. With the draft law of the Democratic Party of Serbia, we have defined that deputy public prosecutors are named for eight years and are doing so by the High Council of Justice. The solution was later reached, but the government advocated, as did the minister of justice who was not present, that it is the assembly that should elect the deputy prosecutors and that they be permanent. After that, when the Democratic Party of Serbia was outside the Assembly, due to the kidnapping of its mandate, the Law on the High Council of Justice has changed, the composition of the High Council of Justice, where prosecutors have received the majority, and there has been a change in the composition of the High Council of Justice under the pressure of the prosecutor's lobby, so that prosecutors will not be the ones to appoint judges, where they will choose themselves without the major influence of the executive and legislative authority to elect judges. Now we have a third solution, and that's some evolution, where the government says it's the one that's going to appoint deputy public prosecutors for a certain time. It is totally unacceptable for the Democratic Party of Serbia for this solution. We felt that it was the High Council of Justice in our legal system that had to have this jurisdiction, that it was too dangerous for the government to appoint her deputy prosecutors. That's how the DA's reputation goes down to, say, the level of judges for violations, which isn't good. Judges for violations have a second status and a court for violations has a different status than classic courts. We believe that this way we will not contribute to the construction of a public prosecutor's office as an independent and free, which should work independently and responsibly, but rather, we will support the public prosecutor's office, we will subjugate public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, we will make them government officials, such as some others, and they will be in office of the executive authority. This is a danger to both the government and the opposition. For the opposition because it may be under political pressure, the prosecution is chasing the opposition over various things, fictional, unimaginative, mounted, unmounted. Secondly, it's dangerous for the government, because tomorrow they will be the opposition and it can turn against them. I am almost surprised by this short-sightedness that someone does not see and thinks that laws should not be passed that will be in one short-term function of the government, but rather the laws that will be in function of the system need to be passed. This law and these changes are not in the role of building a system of legal and democratic states, the judiciary, the public prosecutor's office, as independent and strong institutions that should work to detect crimes and the government. That some prosecutor would reveal the crimes committed by a minister, if he were appointed by the minister. Where we have independence and where we can talk about that everyone is available to the law and that justice is blind and that everyone will be responsible for the actions they have committed. It's just that this way it's avoided and we're going to be against this solution. I'm very sorry that there are fewer than 84 of us here, how long it takes us to attend and work on these points. I would ask, for the importance of this matter, to determine the quorum and to go very seriously to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28123	I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum to work with. I'm asking the MP who asked to determine the quorum to insert his card. There are 85 MPs present, we have a quorum and we continue to work. I warn the head of the DSS parliamentary group because he asked for a quorum, and then failed to ensure that his parliamentary group participated in the quorum. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28124	I did not know that Mr. Peric's amendment would cause so much bile debate in this parliament, but it seems that the essence of the amendment has been affected, and it seems that what the applicant of the amendment wanted to do, which is to improve the situation in the judiciary, is more specifically to pre-warn the deterioration of the situation in the judiciary regarding the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice itself, a good intention that will obviously still be the subject of the assembly session and debate at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the opening statement, I must say that the legal galatias around the judiciary began with a proposal for a set of judicial laws, in October 2001, about which a consensus was allegedly reached; there were many stories whether it was a trade for support of the Labour Act, or not, and so on and so on. Today, as we have heard, we have a third, how much I could monitor the course of change in the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice, in the jurisdiction of the public prosecutors, etc.; but since this is about an amendment to the Law on the High Council of Justice, I will only talk about the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice. Therefore, this body, which has been established as an independent body, in order to ensure and speed up the independence of the judiciary, should have taken on itself very important responsibilities and responsibilities as regards the proposing of the holders of judicial functions, public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors, as I have already said, was created to provide or justify the independence of the judiciary itself, first of all, in relation to the executive authority, which, I will remind the solutions contained in the previous law on courts, was able to propose through the competent Committee on Justice, through the competent committees in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, again to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the holders of judicial functions and holders of the public prosecution functions. Such a solution was the subject of criticism by the opposition; and in 1997, the SPS adopted a proposal for a set of legal provisions, which envisioned a solution that meant the establishment of a High Council of Justice, but with circumstances, which I am not going to talk about too much about right now, there was a situation that this set of laws had not been put into the assembly procedure, so there was a similar or less amended legislative proposal in October 2001. At that time, the respected Justice Minister, Mr Batic, said the proposal was agreed, that absolute support was provided, however, the later development of events assured us that it was not exactly so, and the current solutions that are expected to remove the planned solution, that the High Council of Justice proposes to the National Assembly of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Public Prosecutors, indeed the evidence in favour of the fact that the concept of the justice system itself is unclear and that in a year and three, four months or five months, we are changing the law in the field of justice enough. Minister, if you think you're changing laws every week, at least let's get ready, there's gonna be a lot of work for me, not every week. So, the essence of our amendment is that it remains a valid solution, that public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors propose the High Council of Justice, and that it chooses them, in order to protect the independence of the judiciary and public prosecutorial functions, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you'll have an understanding of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28125	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Mihailov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28126	President Micic, I understand your dissatisfaction, your anger and everything else that arises from the situation you are in, but it is not necessary to express measures contrary to this Rules of Procedure. You've injured Article 102. The Rules of Procedure, by giving me a warning measure. Article 102 states: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker, without the permission of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia"; whether I did it - I did not; then "who speaks before he has asked and received a word"; whether that was the case - it was not; then "who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda" - was not the case. I would ask you to warn Mrs. Comic, as she throws herself here, from behind, if she has something to say, she should come out for this pay phone, and that's already the issue of her personal education. Thirdly, "if you interrupt a speaker in exposure or throws away, or interferes with a speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech" Was that the case? It's not. "If it brings out facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons." Did I do that? I didn't. "If he uses swearing and abusive expressions; if other actions violate order in the sitting... "Mrs. Micic, none of these provisions have been violated, I believe that contrary to this Rules of Procedure, you have given the measure of caution and I think it would be best for you and this assembly to apply the Rules of Procedure in the same way as you should, according to all of us, that we do not have an insecure application of the Rules of Procedure, as otherwise applied by our country these days. In this way, you would contribute to the construction of this Parliament as an institution, and you would not bring and heat up the atmosphere in this assembly to one level of scarcity, which cannot bring good. I think that these are too serious things to be so unserious, that MPs don't attend this and that one debate that needs to contribute to the construction of the legal system, to the repression of crime, to the debate - whether someone has spoken for four minutes and three seconds and whether they have come to a pay phone faster or slower, should already be you, by your conduct and presence to contribute to an academic debate here, to the extent that it allows both the education of MPs and their willingness to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28127	I agree with MP Dejan Michael's that we should be serious, but you were inconclusive, and secondly, that there should be no selective application of the Rules of Procedure. I would warn you to be in Article 217. (and it would not be bad if you read the Rules of Procedure) he says, "The MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly." The second position: "The National MP who is on permanent work in the National Assembly is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when the quorum is established, as well as during the session." The second position of Article 217, which can also be applied if you are looking for the days to be non-selective, reads: "To a national MP from the position of the 1st member, who is unjustly absent when determining the quorum or during the work at the National Assembly session, the status of Members of Permanent Work will be taken away in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." People's MP, you're the head of the parliamentary group, who enjoys certain rights here. So you get to talk about amendments, you come to meetings, we agree, then you have some obligations, and that's to take care of how your MP group behaves. You asked for a quorum to be determined, and then a group of MPs sat next to you came out of your sight. Therefore, be pleased that you have received only a reminder. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board will respond. A new breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Louds from the O.R.: Where are your messengers? )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28128	They're reading "Today" and "The Voice," because there are interesting texts. You quoted the rules of the Rules of Procedure which do not apply to the objections that I have made, so it is not the first time, and that would say in school, a missing topic, an insufficient one. That provision you read does not apply to the reminder you gave me, but to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28129	You have no right to argue with me. The Management Board will make a decision on your objection and you can only point out another injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28130	This is the second violation of the Rules of Procedure. In the light of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have also injured Article 217 since the Rules of Procedure have incorrectly interpreted and made an objection that does not apply to the breach of the Rules of Procedure at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28131	I didn't interpret it at all, I just read it. Maybe you misread him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28132	This in law theory is treated as an interpretation, since you're a lawyer you should know; that's one thing, and that's language interpretation, which you would say. You've been linguistically interpreting this Rules of Procedure. I call upon you to apply the Rules of Procedure, to seduce order in the O.R. or make warnings, to seduce that order. Do not indiscriminately apply the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28133	You're asking me to give another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28134	You violated the Rules of Procedure by misquoting the provisions and citing the reasons why they do not stand by this Rules of Procedure. I believe that this second violation of the Rules of Procedure should also be declared by the Administrative Board, in order to care for the path of self-will in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28135	I ask the Administrative Board to determine whether I have violated the Rules of Procedure by misquoting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as requested by MP Dejan Mihajlov. We move on to further work, to discuss details. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legal. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28136	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice. The essence of the proposal is to delete the article, which basically means leaving the same concept that previously existed and under which the High Council of Justice proposed to the National Assembly, in addition to judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. We Socialists are absolutely for change, especially when these changes are progressive, but out of the reasons for the law-making, we couldn't see what it is that's better, what it's about to change. The explanation says "The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, whose adoption is proposed under an emergency procedure, provides for the public prosecutor to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government, and the deputy public prosecutor is appointed by the government on a proposal from the ministry responsible for the judiciary. Hence, the Supreme Council of Justice no longer plays its part in the process of electing public prosecutors and their deputies, deciding to object to a decision on distance and the transfer of public prosecutors and deputies." So there's no other explanation. There's probably a reason. If that argument had been clearly articulated, I don't believe that our intervention would follow, but if it's gone, then at least let's hear what it is and what it's about, because there's no reason that something that leads to a better and more efficient procedure won't be accepted on our part.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28137	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28138	This amendment requires the removal of Article 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice and as regards intervention in Article 4 of the basic text of this Act. The legislator has intervened in this sense by proposing the erasure of attitudes 2 and 3, meaning he remains position 1, but has asked for a new position 2 to be added, which would read: "In the election of judges from Article 1, he will take care of the representation of judges from all stages of the court". The amendmentr wishes not to touch the state that already exists in that law. The legislator requires proper intervention. In one part, it, from the SRS' point of view, is acceptable, which is that the High Council of Justice no longer has any jurisdiction or any competence in matters of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. However, after all these changes in the Law on Court Order, practically, we have the Supreme Court of Serbia, which under some circumstances may be a court trial, but since the second-degree procedure has been transferred to a new category of courts, we still represent the view that all of these powers of the High Council of Justice should be given by the Supreme Court of Serbia. It is not good when one norm is inserted into the law, which is this new attitude 2, which points out (though these are not even criteria: "he will keep an account", it is a referring norm) to what to pay attention when naming these people. In the last few months, we have a situation where a good number of members of that council have managed to hire their children in the judiciary. It was probably one of the good criteria and the reason those children were admitted. I don't really want to name names, but there's been a story about it before. A member of the High Council of Justice hired his child in the prosecution. Of course, he was able to find out, to influence a little bit, to suggest and to put the National Assembly here to vote. I don't think this norm, which points to some discretion, the disposition of some of the people in that organ, is good, because it gives too much width or when it's appointed to that organ, and beyond that, it can get through, which can be very dangerous. That doesn't apply to you, Mr. Batic, you've got it all wrong. You probably don't know about that either. People who work in courts warn us that the daughter of one of them was admitted during the last or the previous election. It's kind of a kid. It's normal to help a child. You wouldn't be the father of one who wouldn't help his child, but this looks a little like the abuse of something that we can't accept, and if it does, we have to stamp it. Maybe he's a kid and he's the best student, maybe he's a high-quality lawyer, etc., but it's kind of like an appearance that's got eyes. It is likely that this law will change yet and I agree that there is no clear concept of this law, but to us, the Supreme Court, after all these changes, has practically nothing more to do. This is a very significant function in that part of the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28139	The word has a minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28140	First, I would like to clarify the circumstances that the amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice are related to amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. So they're completely reciprocal and these first springs come from these others. What's this about? First of all, the public prosecutor's office is, by the logic of things, a state body. Second, the public prosecutor's office is not part of the judicial authority. Third, the goal is to establish one system of responsibility. Fourthly, you cannot set up a system of responsibility when there is complete arbitration, optionalness and volunteerism in proposing and electing prosecutors or deputy prosecutors by the prosecutors themselves. To clarify, in the High Council of Justice, when the prosecutors were proposed or elected, the prosecutions decided mostly. Fifthly, the public was dissatisfied with the prosecution's work. The sixth, event and circumstances confirmed that this dissatisfaction was justified. I'm a member of the High Council of Justice, and I attended one of the sessions where the deputy prosecutor was elected. One of the MPs present has even respected my responsibility to elect the prosecutor, Sarajlic, who is now being prosecuted. I have to say that it should be reminded that the High Council of Justice is structured, which makes most of them when the prosecutors are elected -- it is made by the prosecutors themselves, and it is obvious that it is a relapse and a desire to establish some self-government in the prosecutor's organization. I've got a record from that High Council of Justice session, and I've suggested that they don't name themselves and choose quickly, and I've proposed a strict selection, and I've proposed a lustration. Otherwise, I've never seen it in my life, until that event over the media, and I've never heard of who Mr. Sarajlic is, but it's just a drop in a glass, it doesn't really matter. I refused to take part in the vote, and I was not present at any future Council of Justice sessions. So we want to establish the principle of responsibility and therefore these legal changes are inevitable to us, but note that this system exists in Montenegro and in most European countries. I do not know what Mr Krasic said (as I rarely attended the sessions), who suggested it or chose from members of the High Council of Justice of his child, I suppose, as deputy public prosecutor. I have to remind you that we have bigger problems than that. We have, say, Supreme Court judges and members of their closest family who have been seen by lawyers. I've even been to such a norm that in the area of at least the same court would make something that could be nepotism, not necessarily, but it could be and there's always a dilemma. However, all human rights fighters stood up -- it's limiting the freedom and right of someone who isn't guilty of being his husband or wife the Supreme Court judge or prosecutor in the Republic or the district attorney, etc. It's an eternal dilemma that stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28141	The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. I also apologize to Zarko Obradovic and you, MP, MP Dragan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28142	So, the essence of our amendment is to delete the proposed solution to dot in Article 2 of Article 1 of the basic text of the law, which regulates members of the High Council of Justice, after the words "judgment", and the words are deleted until the end of the sentence. So the High Council of Justice has five permanent members and public prosecutors as permanent members. The proposed amendment of the law is deleted. Also in position 2nd after the word "six" is placed, and the words "and the members of the public prosecutors four" are deleted. The planned solution is therefore removed by public prosecutors from the High Council of Justice, and this is the case with the solutions provided for in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors which are absolutely reduced in favour of the Government's authority, which has the possibility of proposing for public prosecutors, and for the deputy public prosecutor's appointments. So there are several kinds of pressures on the independent judiciary, and we would absolutely have to be clear that every, but every single state, every regime has its own mechanisms for pressure on the judiciary. Some of these mechanisms are a little stronger, some more perfidious, so I'm going to make some kind of pressure on an independent judiciary, so the judicial part of the government, that in the mid-80s there were a lot of demands from the then executive authority to the judiciary to work to protect workers' interests. I've read about it, but I'm not ashamed to read about what I don't know, unlike some others. Furthermore, yes, Minister, the courts of joint work, you know very well, because at the time you were employed in the congregation of the municipality, it doesn't matter. One of the perfided systems for pressure on the holders of judicial functions is that, but here we have a drastic pressure on the public prosecutor's office. The High Council of Justice has been established to ensure the independence of the judiciary, to ensure that as many as possible from the professions are proposed by and the holders of judicial functions, including the holders of public prosecutorial functions, whether they are deputies or public prosecutors; this High Council of Justice had to be the basis of a single solution, a system that would allow for the independent proposing of the holders of these functions. I think it was more logical that we first discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office than the Law on the High Council of Justice, but what is there. The concrete amendment by Mr Tomovic is about eradicating Article 2 where the proposed solutions are left to keep public prosecutorial functions in constant composition of the High Council of Justice so that when the High Council of Justice discusses the issue from its jurisdiction and from the field of judicial function and public prosecutorial functions, they can contribute to finding optimal solutions. There are a lot of problems in the judiciary, they need to be solved, but we are absolutely against this way of calling problems in the judiciary and in the prosecution, and they are used in accordance with the daily-political needs in a certain way to promote or protect the interests of those currently in power. The government is variable, and the laws that remain behind are a little more permanent and they are the best witnesses to the character of the perpetrator of power. That is why we propose that if a better solution is not found for the functioning of the High Council of Justice, at least this remains valid.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28143	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28144	If we are referring to Montenegrin legislation, we should know that this is the 1993 law, when Djukanovic and Momir Bulatovic were in extremely great love with Milosevic and when they went to good policy practice in Slobodan Milosevic, socialist, command and all others. The 1993 Prosecution Act, from Montenegro, on the state prosecutor, is not at all a rapper that we would have to deal with if we did not act to the end, and in Montenegro, the government is proposing to the deputy prosecutor's assembly. This is where the government sets up deputy prosecutors, so there's a fundamental difference. Second, it's a 1993 law. But should we appeal to the law of Montenegro, where the state prosecutor and his service have been charged with sex, slave trade and women, should we call on such practice? Now we have this, the interior minister, the former, says why and how he went to Trieste; whether we should refer to such a practice, to a system that is exclusively subordinated to people in power, subordinated to the government. Do we here want to create a system that is good for the state and for the institutions or system that is good for the government of Djukanovic has created a system that is good for the government, where he could do everything, everything he can to set up, everything he can, to cover up all those things so that he can't go to the first neighbouring country, to Italy, because there are lawsuits. These are some things we need to take care of, what kind of system we want to build. Do we want a system where the government will centralisedly control and where, after every change, the authorities will have a change in public prosecutors, where the public prosecutor's office will be divided, or we want a system in which the public prosecutor will be an organ independent of the government itself, which will work for the citizens and not for the government. If we are calling for Montenegro, then we should be aware of what we are calling for - to call for a country that has been proven by various European commissions that has been located as the country through which tobacco smuggling went. Do we need to take that practice, these public prosecutors, the state prosecutors who tolerated it? I think it's some illogical stuff. If we're already building one system, we should call on German, French and some other systems that can be closer to us. Not to the Montenegro system, which is still further crippled here, because the government is proposing there, and this is where the government chooses. The assembly does not leave that opportunity to declare the government's proposal, but is only given to inform through the media, that it has come to this as well. This is one way of introducing the state of emergency into the public prosecutor's office and in general that kind of body, where these measures that even in emergency situations are not regulated -- that the president of the state can replace the public prosecutor -- are regulated here; we are regularly introducing emergency measures, where the government is setting up, changing and resolving; these are solutions that are contrary to and health care professionals and it is totally unacceptable. Let us not appeal to this solution, hardly exists in which country of the European Union, members of the Council of Europe, this solution, where it rules directly. Second, why is the composition of the High Council of Justice like this? I was talking about the chronology of the change in the composition of the High Council of Justice. This composition was established by the amendments to the Law on the High Council of Justice last July, when DSS MPs were expelled from this assembly and when the laws adopted on our proposal and adopted by this assembly were amended. So, for these changes that allowed Milan Sarajlic to be elected, the rest of the DOS was responsible, after he voted the changes when we were outside the assembly. If we're talking about responsibility, we should also talk about that kind of responsibility. That's why we've come to a rigid, restrictive solution now. We need to build a system, and I think that, within a year and a half, we're going to change the appointments of deputy public prosecutors three times, put their position in suspense, whether it's permanent, not permanent, who's immune, who solves them, how we don't contribute to construction, and I think we're contributing to the construction of obedients, not public prosecutors who are supposed to prosecute all perpetrators of criminal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28145	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the minister of justice of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28146	In more than half of European countries with the highest degree of democracy, the government has appointed public prosecutors. In almost all transition countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, the justice minister has appointed public prosecutors and a state prosecutor. So it's no restriction and no rigidity. It's something Europe's practice is. They're not judges, they're prosecutors. I mentioned Montenegro and now we hear salva and trees and rocks on Montenegro. Whether we like it or not, she has gotten rid of Slobodan Milosevic much earlier than Serbia. I would like to remind how the initial laws here were adopted and who proposed them and where they came from: not even from the cabinet of Milosevic's Justice Minister Dragoljub Jankovic, but from the cabinet of an even older, former justice minister, Arandjel Markevic. A whole set of judicial laws is from the Arandel Markevic drawer. Only a second memorandum and another seal was placed, while we are talking about Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28147	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) You have no basis for replication, he quoted SPS officials and nothing else. That's right from what he quoted. If not, we move on to Article 4 to which the amendment together are the mid-term MPs Miomir Ilic and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has the word of MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28148	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS fellow MP Miomir Ilic and I have submitted this amendment, which is the consequence of earlier amendments, i.e. a proposal to return to the concept adopted by this assembly by the adoption of a set of laws on the judiciary, where the ways of functioning of the High Council of Justice are regulated. The correct point is that it's a bit of a mixed agenda, it's not complex to make it much clearer, because this is where the Law on Public Prosecutors, i.e. Public Prosecutorial Functions, interferes. One and the other are fully compatible in the proposed variant, to remove the powers of the High Council of Justice from this bill, to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is to appoint assistants, i.e. deputy public prosecutors. That's how one part of the judicial authority is removed from the court's jurisdiction. I don't know, this subsequent mind that prosecutors are not the place in this part of the judicial authority, in the state of Serbia, and that they are being put into office by the executive authority, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to become officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not by the independent authorities of the judicial system of this country, has motivated us to propose these amendments, both in amending the Law on the High Council of Justice and in a later law on election, namely the appointment of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. This amendment proposes that the title be deleted, for reasons of wanting to keep the old title, and it is meaningful in relation to the proposed amendments, and later proposed amendments. Therefore, if this concept is maintained, then this amendment has a complete justification. I don't see any reason, not in the system of efficiency, or in the need of better functioning, for us to change the ways of the election and the public prosecutors, and the composition of the High Council of Justice, at a time when we have an emergency, when everything has to work impeccablely, effectively. We are causing a major disturbance here, because this announces a full re-election, from the republican prosecutors to the last deputy and municipal prosecutor. So I think it'll put one anxiety into the already existing nervous state. It won't make these organs work more efficiently. I don't think there was any particular need for us to discuss this in this way at this time and without public presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28149	The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. After him is the word of the Messenger of the people, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28150	As I have already said in my previous presentation, there is no need for changes and additions to judicial laws to be used for daily - political purposes. A moment ago, we heard from this pay phone from the minister that Montenegro was much better off because of the release of Slobodan Milosevic. In fact, I really wouldn't want to run a political controversy with the executives and from this place. We could talk about it another way and another time. Using judicial laws for such politics is not part of political culture, and it is indeed inappropriate. The essence of our amendment is to delete the provisions of Article 4, which are the name of the fifth head of the High Council of Justice, which is now the Constitution of the High Council of Justice, and determines the narrow and expanded composition of the same body, deletes and changes - the Delocrogue of the High Council of Justice and the decision-making. Therefore, the proposed amendments to the law itself concern the removal from its composition by representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office, thereby creating conditions for the removal of the provisions of Articles 11 and 12 and of the members of 11 and 12 who regulate that the High Council of Justice is working and deciding in a narrow or extended composition, and that the composition of the High Council of Justice depends on the subject or on the issues under consideration at that session. The narrow composition is foreseen for permanent members of the High Council of Justice and the call for members. When it comes to the issue of the judge's narrow composition, permanent members and calls for members, and when it comes to the issue in the field of the prosecutor's office, then permanent members of the High Council of Justice and the invitation members of the public prosecutors are invited to the session. This is a truly acceptable solution and, in accordance with the principle of ensuring the independence of the judiciary, we think it is a good proposed law, and we think it is unnecessary to change the chapter 5 regarding the composition of the High Council of Justice, because we can really come to a situation where there is no representative of a part of the judiciary who will be empowered to give their opinion on professional issues that are under consideration before the High Council of Justice. I'll remind you that the High Council of Justice has five permanent members, callers, judges and public prosecutors, that the judge has six, and the public prosecutor's invitations are four. This solution provides for independence, objectivity in approach to solving problems concerning judicial functions and the essence of our amendment is to delete the proposed member, to remain in Chapter 5. Law on the High Council of Justice proposed a title defining the composition of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28151	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28152	I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but okay. Montenegro may have freed Milosevic, but it is not his laws and that is the fundamental difference. We here need to talk about amending the Law on the High Council of Justice and about who did what. I can ask why Prijic, a JUL-ovac, was appointed as a special prosecutor, who named him and how he named him, but again, the minister will say he was not up for it or against it. It doesn't matter. I think it's our job and his task here to make as many laws as possible, laws that won't be in office as well as the minister himself, that he sets up obedients in those places, or in the function of any of the next authorities after an emergency election, that will put some people in those places. We need to fight for a system that will suit everyone, who will answer to the citizens. An existing solution or solution that was - the High Council of Justice in the composition formed in October 2001, and not in the composition that was made last year - is a solution guaranteeing the involvement of the Assembly, the involvement of the executive authority and the involvement of the judicial and prosecutorial authorities. We think the best way to do that is by binding all these four sides, that there are concrete solutions. Then we would have neither Sarajlic nor Prijic nor anyone else, but we would have prosecutors who do their job with honor and responsibility, and I believe that the ones most in Serbia, the ones who risk their wages, are chasing criminals. It is for them that we should enable them to be those who participate and who will wonder about the choice of their colleagues. They know best how their colleagues work and who they are. They know it better than the minister knows, or we know what we're sitting here. It is therefore important to allow prosecutors to decide for themselves who is elected. What was a failure, called Prijic or is called Sarajlic, should be examined and seen what was the role of the minister, which is the role of the others involved. Of course, these solutions are contrary to our intentions. If there are such solutions in some other countries in transition, it is simply a distorted picture. There is no such clean solution in any country in transition. There is a half solution everywhere, as is the unfortunate solution from Montenegro, that the government proposes to the assembly, but such a clean solution, that the government appoints, there is no one. As we were deceived yesterday, the detention of 60 days exists in some international convention (there is no), as the minister said, so now. I think the government should consider this solution, that it is at least harmful for the government itself, primarily for the state itself, and should take care of the state itself, not party interests. It's obviously the only thing that's being taken care of here is the future police state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28153	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28154	Mrs. Komic, dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment is completely identical to the amendment to Article 4. So it's about leaving the solutions that were in the previous legal text. It shall be deleted to give the proposal to Articles 5, which is to delete the titles above Articles 11 and 12 and Articles 11 and 12. I don't see any reason why if this concept is adopted that we've talked about here several times, the right of the High Council of Justice to be representatives of the public prosecutorial functions in its composition. Then there's no reason to change this legal proposal to the existing text of the law that is already in force. That is why we believe that these provisions should remain and that there is no need to change the composition of the High Council of Justice, in terms of the narrow and expanded composition. It is necessary to remain the provisions we have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28155	The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28156	I won't report to the next amendment, because the draftr of these amendments and the addition of the law could have taken a little account and been more rational and changed everything he needed by one member. He could even include with one member all three members who regulate the composition of the High Council of Justice, the narrow and expanded composition together, and titles in that head, not to force us who are representatives of the opposition (and what we serve but to defend our views) to go out one time. He thinks it's very interesting for me to take a walk. I could walk outside, but I'm here on an opportunity. Therefore, Article 5 provides only for erasure of titles above Articles 11 and 12 and for members 11 and 12 to be deleted. I must say that this is contrary to our concept that the High Council of Justice has a narrow and extended composition, that the High Council of Justice in a narrow or extended composition is working on issues which are on the agenda, that the narrow composition is made up of permanent and calling members, and when issues concern judges, they are made up of permanent members and members of the judge; when the question concerns public prosecutors - permanent members and members of the public prosecutor's office. Proposed amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Law, which we have not yet discussed, abolish the possibility of public prosecutors having their representatives in the public prosecutor's office, more specifically in the High Council of Justice. With this in mind, we come up with one solution, which will later be explained, which will lead to the situation for public prosecutors to be directly under the authority of the executive, which is a solution present, I should not swear that in 50% of the system of European justice, but it is possible that somewhere there is. However, the question is whether we as a country seeking better solutions should apply those solutions that are more restrictive or that degrade the degree of independence of the judiciary or the position of the prosecution itself, but we will discuss it a little more when amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Law are on the agenda. For now, the essence of our amendment is to delete the proposed Article 5. More specifically, to remain the solutions provided for in the applicable legal text of the Law on the High Council of Justice (Articles 11 and 12 and Titles 11 and 12). ) on the narrow and expanded composition, as I said in my explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28157	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 6 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28158	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice, the Government has proposed to the National Assembly by an urgent procedure, and the amendments to these and other judicial and criminal laws on the grounds should bring more effective work of the law enforcement and justice authorities, in order to combat crime, as well as more severe penalties for perpetrators. In front of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment to the 6th law. Otherwise, this member of the bill has been amended by the work of the High Council of Justice as a result of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the Public Prosecutor is scheduled to elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, and the Deputy Prosecutor is appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the High Council of Justice no longer has its role in the process of electing public prosecutors and their deputies, in deciding to object to a decision on distance and the transfer of public prosecutors and deputies. For the Socialists, this is unacceptable because the proposed changes and additions significantly violate the constitutional division of powers to legislative, judicial and executive power. I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 6, to remain the same title above Article 13, as Article 13, which regulates that "the extended composition of the High Council of Justice make up all the members of the judge and the public prosecutors and all the permanent members. The High Council of Justice of the Extended Chamber proposes a supplement on the salary of the judges, decides on an increase in the basic salary when the law provides, on the objection to a decision on incompatibility, on the objection of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor to a decision to vacate from office when it was not mandatory and on the objection of the Republic Public Prosecutor to a decision which is vacated from office. The session of the High Council of Justice is chaired by the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia." According to us, this solution is much better and I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28159	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28160	It is a pity that the legislator of this law is not present because he would have to explain to all the MPs what the purpose of this Article is. It's a bill of law. It is a changed article of the 13th basic text of the Law, but what we need to be concerned about, is that this proposal practically seeks to trample on its basic concept on which it builds changes and complements this law. If a government official earlier said here that the deputy prosecutors are moving into the authority of the government that appoints them, and if he said that they do not belong to the judiciary but that much more is asked by the executive authority, he would have to explain what it means in this new Article 13 that a request for the exemption of the Republic's public prosecutor is decided by the High Council of Justice and, in particular, on the issue that the decision to appoint an perpetrator of office also brings a High Council of Justice. So he's not even consistent with that basic idea that he's running, because there's obviously a problem with this relationship. I would point to several very specific examples, without stating the names of these people, but we in the existing law have a problem with how to seek the exception of the Republic Public Prosecutor. We have a problem with how to seek the exception of the deputy prosecutor of any prosecutor, because under the Exclusion Act, the district attorney decides directly when it comes to the public prosecutor, and when it comes to the deputy public prosecutor, then the DA's office, or the relevant public prosecutor. I could give you a number of concrete examples where we don't come to a solution by stalling, where the prosecutor doesn't make a statement about it, and the procedure takes a lot of time. I would also point out the problem - if you have one criminal case and file an application and ask for the exception of a specific deputy, say the municipal public prosecutor, the question arises in principle, as he steps forward on behalf of that municipal public prosecutor, whether we seek only his exemption or the exemption of all the people who work in that prosecution. As a party, we had a few problems in that relationship. Those demands have not been resolved. We have another pending case, which is that we've filed a criminal case against a republican public prosecutor and still hasn't moved beyond criminal charges, and it's been seven or eight months. When we talk about this efficiency and these facts should be taken into account, it's not just a legal solution but it's pretty much our practice and everyday work. When the issue of the exemption of a Republic public prosecutor is raised, it is a specific question, but if we tie it to a specific criminal case, it will be a very rare situation, we must be aware of that. But if we talk about the hierarchical organization of the prosecution, which is present and in accordance with the law, unlike the court, there are many issues of principle. As you begin to resolve what question, you are practically entering the essence of a constitutional norm that defines what a public prosecutor function is. In this way and this new member of the 13th, the proposer practically throws ashes at himself because he denies that basic thought and the basic idea that led him to change this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28161	The word is from MP Dragan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28162	The direct consequence of the proposed amendment of the composition of the High Council of Justice, in accordance with the regulation of the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in respect of the public prosecutor's office, is found in Article 6 of the amending and supplementing the Law, that the title above Articles 13 and 13 are amended. This Article 13 refers to the extended composition of the High Council of Justice, which comprises all the members of the Judge and Public Prosecutors and all the permanent members, who, in his jurisdiction in the current text, had the power to propose a supplement on the salary of the Judges, to decide on an increase in the basic salary when provided for by the law, to object to a decision on incompatibility, to the objection of the Public Prosecutor and to the Deputy Prosecutor to the decision on the distance from duty when it was not mandatory and to the objection of the Republic Public Prosecutor to the decision which he was removed from office. It also predicts that the meetings of the High Council of Justice, in the expanded composition, are chaired by the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The solution now is proposed that the High Council of Justice no longer decides to object to a decision on incompatibility, a complaint by the public prosecutor and a deputy public prosecutor for a decision on distance. A provision is deleted to chair his session by the president of Serbia's Supreme Court. What more concrete than these provisions will be that in a very open manner, you want to put under control and the High Council of Justice, to exclude him from the jurisdiction to propose public prosecutor's office, to object to a decision and to the prosecutor's appeal and to the deputy prosecutor for a decision to vacate from office, which has so far been in the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice. So, all of this now goes to the government's jurisdiction, and the problems that have arisen in practice during these few months of applying the applicable High Council of Justice law will only be multipled and will be even more difficult to resolve in the proposed way. That is why our amendment to remain in force is a valid concept, under which the High Council of Justice in the extended composition will also consider issues in the field of public prosecutorial function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28163	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 7 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28164	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of Justice, to Article 7 and I propose that Article 14 be amended and read: "The High Council of Justice makes decisions to the majority of the votes of all the members of the composition that it decides. The decision of the High Council of Justice is not allowed to lead the administrative dispute." Our concept of the Law on the High Council of Justice is to retain the existing solution set out in Article 2. The law on the High Council of Justice, that he has five permanent members and members of the judge and public prosecutors. The judge's summoning members have six, and the members of the public prosecutor's office have four. We advocate that the High Council of Justice works and decides in a narrow and expanded composition and that the composition of the High Council of Justice depends on the issues under consideration. The narrow composition of the High Council of Justice shall consist of permanent and calling members; when the issue concerns judges, it would constitute permanent and calling members of the judge, and when it concerns public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, permanent and calling members of the public prosecutors; the extended composition of the High Council of Justice would constitute all the members of the judge and the public prosecutors, and all the permanent members. We also advocate that the High Council of Justice makes decisions by majority of the votes of all members of the rope, i.e. the extended composition, and that no administrative dispute is allowed against the decision of the High Council of Justice. For the reasons set out above, I believe that MPs in the voting day will have an understanding of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28165	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28166	The proposed amendment tried to more precisely determine the provisions of Article 14 relating to decision-making in the High Council of Justice and so far it has read - the High Council of Justice of the Court of Justice is making most of the votes of all members of the rope, i.e. the extended composition. The High Council of Justice is closed to the public. No administrative dispute is allowed against the decision of the High Council of Justice. As far as I could see, the concept of a public prosecutor's representative in the High Council of Justice implies that it works both in the narrow and in the expanded composition, so it is necessary to edit, as a direct consequence of this concept, and the way decisions are made in the framework of the work of the High Council of Justice. That is why we have proposed such an amendment, which I think will contribute to a small improvement of the formulation in the proposed legal text, but rather does not change the envisaged solutions. However, I advocate that the existing decisions of the Law remain in force, and that the High Council of Justice, since we propose to remain both the narrow and the expanded composition of the High Council of Justice, is formed in this way and with regard to decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28167	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. The proposer's representative is not here, and I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted this search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution (Secondity) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Milovan Radovanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zoran Krasic, Slobodan Janjic, Vjerica Rade, Natasa Jovanovic, Vitomir Plužarevic, Milorad Mirčić, Ljubomir Kragović, Petar Jojić, Gordana Pop - Lazić, Dragan Ljubojević, Veroljub Arsic, Srboljub Živanovic, Goran Cvetanović, Nebojša Jović, Rajko Baralić, Dusan Cvetković, Golub Rajić, Sreten Mitrović, Bora Stanimirović, Joca Arsic, Branko Ružić, Rade Bajic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović, Milan Stanković, Toma Bušetić, Milos Nešović, Đra Lazić, together Momir Radoic and Joca Arsic, together Petar Petrović and Milosic. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nebojsa Jovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28168	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. I would like to read the integral text of Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which says: "In the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia"), No. In Article 19(2), 63/2001 and 42/2002, in Article 19(2), the following words: "she takes care to follow the mandatory instructions of the Federal State Prosecutor, to select among the public prosecutors the members of the High Council of Justice" and the sealed, are deleted". We propose that Article 19(2) "take care to carry out the mandatory instructions of the Federal State Prosecutor" and be deleted and that the abovementioned member remain "to choose among the public prosecutors the members of the High Council of Justice". The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office significantly undermine the constitutional division of powers to the legislative, judicial and executive power. In such a division, the prosecution had both judicial and executive jurisdiction in its work, and the proposed changes made by the prosecution become the authority of the administration. The Republic's public prosecutor is competent to act before all courts and other authorities in the Republic of Serbia and to take all the actions the public prosecutor's office has been authorised to do. The proposed abandonment of the jurisdiction of the Republic's public prosecutor to elect invitations from the High Council of Justice is unacceptable because of the need for the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office to participate in the work of the High Council of Justice, as the High Council of Justice also discusses issues in the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and for these reasons I have also proposed amendments in Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28169	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28170	It was only now that we came to the discussion of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, although it was more logical to consider it first, after the amendment and addition of the Law on the High Council of Justice, which happens as a result of the amended concept of proposing and selecting public prosecutor's office and the continuity of their functions, more precisely the continuity of the deputy public prosecutors. The essence of our amendment, which is practically the realisation of the concept to create a little more order in this area, is that Article 1 which provides that in the Public Prosecutor's Office's Law "is concerned about the execution of mandatory instructions from the federal state prosecutor" is deleted. As you know, the proposed abandonment of the jurisdiction of the republic's public prosecutor to choose from among the public prosecutors members of the High Council of Justice is unacceptable, because of the need for the representatives of the public prosecutor's office to participate in the work of the High Council of Justice. However, this is about the fact that the federal state prosecutor, by creating a state union between Serbia and Montenegro, no longer exists. Our political position is that the state union is created in one artificial way, that it does not have a basis in the will of the people, but in the will of political parties which, however, do not have enough majority to represent the majority will of the people of Yugoslavia, and now Serbia-Montenegro. But what's there is. Legal consequences arise from the adoption of the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter. Under the law and the Constitutional Charter, the federal state prosecutor no longer exists, so it is also necessary to delete the provisions of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office relating to respect for decisions and enforcement of mandatory instructions by the federal state prosecutor in relation to the Republic Public Prosecutor. The second part of our amendment refers to the solutions already mentioned that regulate the proposal of public prosecutors. We need to remind ourselves that this is the most radical example that the executive government wants to take all the leverage into its own hands, that it wants to dominate the judiciary. We can really discuss whether the prosecution function is in the field of judicial function, whether it is a public prosecutorial function in the area of executive power. As I have already said, in some countries of Europe, there are solutions that mean that the public prosecutor's office is under the direct authority's authority, that they must also be proposed by the executive authority, that they must be the blind executioners of the orders brought by the executive authorities. However, there are a large number of countries, in Europe and in the world, that do not have such provisions. If we look at a parallel right, a solution that is more prone to democracy and respect for the principle of the division of power as a fundamental democratic principle in every country that wants to achieve its democracy, we must stand up for those solutions that are better and that are more useful in this regard. So, it is our view that public prosecutorial office holders must be elected here in the Republic Assembly both as public prosecutors and as deputy public prosecutors. The second point concerns the term of office of the Public Prosecutor's Office, specifically, of their deputies. If you look at the jurisdiction of the deputy attorney generals, they're doing nothing else that the public prosecutors wouldn't do either. The fact is that a public prosecutor, whether it's a municipal, county or a republic, can't deal with the issues of prosecution of criminals alone, that he must have his deputies, and that those deputies, depending on how good they do their job, will be able to contribute to the quality of the work of the public prosecutor himself. That is why it is very important that their function is also permanent, and that they have no fear that after the end of the term of office they are elected to will have some consequences for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28171	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28172	Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, consulting my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. Since there's an explanation, let me just say a few sentences. I think it's an essential condition for the independence of all functions of perseverance. Here, the continuity of the deputy prosecutor is at stake by choosing for eight years, unlike the prosecutor who doesn't have the problem. Since there is no government representative, I have no chance of the arguments I offer being accepted by the Government, then I am speaking to you, fellow MPs, and I ask you to accept this amendment, because it is absolutely meaningful and completely logical. There is a mechanism that one can be resolved if he does not do his job properly, and therefore there is no concern that, under the same conditions, both prosecutors and deputies could be elected, thus eliminating the control of the work of this important authority. I've referred to some problems with the D.A. before. This congregation has missed the opportunity to accept the arguments I have offered. With a close distinction, one district prosecutor in Serbia was elected. Time has shown that I was right, but we'll talk about it another time. So I ask you today to accept the amendment that I am offering, because in a better and more comprehensive way, it solves what is the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28173	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28174	This is a member of the bill in which, I must say, there are three profiled concepts of the place and the role of the public prosecutor. The government apparently believes that he should be closer to the executive authority, especially when he introduces those provisions to appoint the deputy prosecutor. Some other parliamentary groups represent the view that this even distance between the legislative, judicial and executive, where the prosecutor is to be found, is about something called the High Council of Justice, even in that section concerning elections and appointments. The Serbian Radical Party represents the third concept, which is that the National Assembly is the body that elects and appoints. Someone's gonna say it's something that was three or four years ago, but I get the impression that we don't have a better solution than it is. For these two concepts, I would not much like to find full groundwork in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from Articles 95 to 106. I couldn't find, for the simple reason that the public prosecutor is no one's representative, he's a representative of all citizens, a representative of the protection of constitutionality and legality, a representative who prosecutes perpetrators. It rises from the existing structures of power. The Constitution says he is a state body, but we must say - and we are a state body, the National Assembly, and the President of the Republic, and courts and so on. What's never going to be a public prosecutor is that it won't be the government's authority. I think there's a strategic mistake in the government of the Republic of Serbia. I do not dispute that there are such solutions in practice in Europe, however, we have a completely different situation where the president of the Republic sets up a state prosecutor. I think that's the solution in France. This does not endanger those basic foundations of democratic society. Here's the question of the Continuance of the Prosecutor's Office. You know, inserting a provision guaranteeing the continuity of the function is not a guarantee that this man will be immune to pressures and will successfully carry out the process. The re-election is also not a guarantee and does not indicate that this man, every eight years, needs to question himself a little bit. And in general, this relationship between the public prosecutor and the deputy is quite specific. The public prosecutor who stands at the head of the prosecution is apparently the head, the most authorised official person of that organ, the person who can interfere with the procedure that is being conducted by his deputy, and even the lower prosecutor's office, and apparently there are too many discretionary powers, and they are not unlimited, and I have to say that, but at one stage of the procedure, there is a considerable use of human rights, so to the gods and questions of life and death. If a strong district attorney says - there will be no proceedings in this case, believe me, based on some of my practices, and I see that there are a lot of lawyers and they are aware of these facts, when a criminal case is dropped and filed as damaged, as a prosecutor submits a request for an investigation, re-enters the galamitias, if he directly presses charges, he enters the galamatias again. It's this great force, the great force and the district attorney is much stronger than the president of the Republic of Serbia, remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28175	Does anyone else want a word from the authorized participants in the debate? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28176	The proposed solution in these amendments and amendments in Article 2 and concerns Article 39, which regulates the duration of the duties of the public prosecutor, says that the public prosecutor's office is continued continuously from the first election to the completion of the working century, and that the deputy prosecutor is appointed for eight years and may be re-appointed. Before the completion of the working century or the time on which they are appointed, their duty may cease only under the conditions laid down by this law. So this is about the duration of the public prosecutor's office. I have already started to explain our position that the public prosecutor and his deputy are in a close relationship and that there is no need to distinguish between the position of public prosecutors and their deputies, given that they are doing the same job and that the quality of the public prosecutor's work is largely dependent on the work of his deputies. It is not good that public prosecutors' deputies have a burden and fear that when their mandate ceases and are not eventually re-elected, they will suffer some consequences; therefore, they may have fewer elans in their work, which will in the end reflect the work of the entire public prosecutor's office. To remind you of what practice was in other countries, it may take too long to explain it more specifically, but I will remind you of one thing that was interesting, and that after coming to power in the U.S. Mr. Clinton or the Clinton married couple, when they sent a circulatory letter immediately after their arrival to power, past the provisions of their laws, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors -- to be instructed to resign on their own. Therefore, and this is just one of the illustrations of the importance of the public prosecutor's office and the public prosecutor's sector in relation to the government, we cannot support the position that is now being proposed, more specifically the amendment of the Law on Public Prosecutors, Article 39, that the duty of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor is permanent, i.e. that it lasts continuously from the first election to the completion of the working century. It is a guarantee of their impartiality, objectivity and better work. About how much power he has in his hands, I think it's too much to say, but one such solution, so this is one half of the amendments and the addition of the laws and the essence of these amendments and the addition of the law is to limit the mandate of the deputies, and that's where the public prosecutors are thought, for eight years with the possibility of their re-election. This puts them in direct submission to the Executive Authority, in a situation that they have to take account and listen to what they are told by the Executive Authorities, to be more careful than to harm the interests of some executives, but to objectively, impartially and in accordance with the provisions of the law perform their public prosecutorial function and that is, from the aspect of the protection of the rights and objective and independent justice, inadmissible, at least as far as we are concerned by the SAA. As for you from the ruling majority, I hope that you will have a little more hearing, and since I have already heard that it has been proposed to withdraw some parts of the law from this set of judicial laws, I hope that the provisions of this proposed law will be withdrawn, before you do something that is not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and will remain remembered as a degradation of the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28177	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Milos Lukic on behalf of the applicants for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28178	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law. The member reads that a member of the 39th basic text is changing and says: "The public prosecutor's duty continues continuously from the first election to the completion of the working century. The deputy public prosecutor is named for eight years and may be re-appointed. Before the completion of the working century or the time on which they are appointed, their duty may cease only under the conditions laid down by this law. "Our intervention consists of the following: we propose to be in point 2. The bill changes the word "name" in the word "choice", and the word "chosen" in the word "chosen." In heading 3, the word "named" is replaced by the word "chosen". What's this about? The public prosecutor's position is specific and, in any case, given all these developments today, there has been a more serious discussion about the prosecutor's position. This is an attempt to put the prosecution practically under government control, which anywhere in the world, nor in parallel practice, is not envisaged, nor is it recorded, so that it is largely questionable by the public prosecutor's independence. We also came through this appointment for eight years to one contradiction, which is that the majority who took power, this majority who is suspicious, abolished the re-election, or abolished the appointment for eight years, and now after a year and something, two, is looking for lustration. Didn't we have a chance to put these people under some tension through re-election, that used to be a practice, yet we keep these people in judicial functions under some tension, and in this way, we keep chancing, but now we have some kind of a symmetry attempt to solve this problem. There's a question, and it's a very common case in practice, who's asking prosecutors, and who's asking deputies? We have examples, especially at the local level where we know ourselves, that people who were by yesterday were, not for political reasons, but because of those acts of general and economic crime, etc., on the other hand of the law, are setting up prosecutors, replacing, etc., affecting the choice of judges. The question arises, what is actually achieved by this member. The SS believes that deputies should share the fate of prosecutors and be elected, that this assembly chooses them, and that in that way, at least in some ways, we provide for the independence of the prosecutor's office. We hope this amendment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28179	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 3 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28180	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 3 of this proposal for a law on the public prosecutor's office. We are looking for an amendment, as a responsible parliamentary group and as a Socialist, that, as in all the serious countries of the world and of Europe, the division of power into legislative, judicial and executive. In line with these basic definitions of the SAA, I have proposed that Article 3 of this proposal be deleted. On the basis of the proposal for amendments made in Article 3, it seems to me that you, the Government and the absent Mr. Minister, are not yet known that we have entered the Council of Europe as the 45th country. Dear colleagues from the DOS, may I remind you, we did not enter the Council of Europe on April 1st, but on April 3rd. So it's not a April joke. I remind you that human rights standards are something we have to abide by since April 3rd. Does it seem to you that the letters that came from America to the address of the Prime Minister don't matter? Does it really seem to you, gentlemen of the DOS, that you are older and stronger than the Council of Europe and that Europe will accept without objection your attempt to abolish the division of power? Amendments to Article 3. The D.A.'s Law practically wants the principal holders of the prosecutor's office, and these are the deputy prosecutors, completely subservient to themselves, so to the executive authority. By the change he proposes, the government of the deputy attorney general, who has so far been employed in the judiciary and had special rights and powers, is now turning into a man employed in the authorities of the administration, or in the authority that appoints him. It is obvious that this change is being done in order for prosecutors to become the party authorities of DOS, but it is fortunate that it will not still be one party rather than a multi-party; but it will be DOS prosecutors. After these changes, there seems to be no need for a lustration law. The minister and government will drop out of the prosecution's album all pictures of those prosecutors and deputies who are not in the party books. Does this not seem to be a solution in Article 3? - in the event of the termination of the public prosecutor's office, the deputy public prosecutor does not continue his duties - in complete contrast to the concept of the permanent function of the public prosecutor and his deputy? Doesn't it seem to you that such a solution will completely undermine the necessary expertise and professionalism of performing a prosecutorial post? The desire for the deputy prosecutors to become puppets of the executive authority will have inconceivable consequences both for the professional and responsible performance of the prosecutor's office. Therefore, fellow Members of Parliament, who are 70 and the change in this room, I ask you to reconsider the amendments of this Article 3. I call upon you to accept that this Article 3 is deleted and remains the original form of this article, which we have adopted under your authority, which you have not changed during the last amendments of the law. In the hope that you will be responsible for this amendment, I thank you for your patience to listen to me. Just to remind you, when there was a provision that you are now changing and abolishing, that the deputy prosecutor's office was permanent and that the deputy attorney general was elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the High Council of Justice, you were doing what you wanted with the prosecutors. I'd like to give you an example of Leskovec and the impudent district attorney. For all the financial and so far unproven charges against the Socialists or former Socialists who have not openly entered DOS parties, you have designated only one prosecutor in the district attorney's office, formerly, to say, the prosecutor, the Socialist, who has done everything to keep her post in the prosecutor's office and accused many. No one's come to court yet, but that's what we can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28181	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28182	On this case, as I am about to illustrate, it is clear that there is no concept of judicial arrangements, and I will be very specific. In his amendment, Mr. Cvetkovic wanted to correct one illogicality. Namely, the amendments and additions to this law from Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, number 42 of 2002, added that, when regulating the provisions on the impact of changes in the regulation of public prosecutors, if the public prosecutor's office is abolished, the public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy, continues his duties. So it is in the previous draft law, although the arm on the heart, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted such amendments since 2001. After a year, the proposer of these amendments and the addition of the law remembered that this was a good thing and that the amendment we submitted in October 2001 proposed as its amendment in 2002. You've adopted that solution. Now, on 10 April 2003, we come to the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is changing its stance again and telling amendments to the law that Article 3 in Article 40(2), the "replacement" is deleted. Well, then who's for what? We know what we're for. Do you, representatives of the ruling majority, have a specific attitude or are you changing it as the wind blows? It's no good. And if it was good, we'd support it. It's no good. It cannot be played with federal prosecutors, with deputy attorneys, with legal holders, so that their time is only a matter of time. If they're good, then they'll be okay. And if they're no good, then they'll be with a stick, and if they're good, they'll get carrots. It's not good from the aspect of building a legal system that will form the basis for starting our society forward. But this is a specific provision. Furthermore, the proposed Article 3 in the third sentence is also deleted, and the words "High Council of Justice" are replaced by the words "Republic Public Prosecutor". This is the concrete consequence of changing the concept of which the public prosecutor is a public prosecutor, i.e. the deputy, where his duty continues, following earlier amendments and additions to the 2001 law, it is again a change of attitude. You haven't adopted our amendment that was just like this. In 2002, you rewritten the provisions of our amendment, so you adopted them. Now you've remembered that this is wrong, because the High Justice Council should not have any authority over the public prosecutor's office, either as far as the public prosecutors are concerned, or as far as the deputy is concerned. Of course it can't be clearer. The SPS has a clear view. The High Council of Justice should have its influence on changes in the organisation of public prosecutors, should also have the influence of the High Council of Justice, not that the republican public prosecutor determines where and where the public prosecutor will continue his post. If some changes occur in the organisation of public prosecutors, both the deputy public prosecutor and the public prosecutor must have the same treatment, and provisions should be made that, if the public prosecutor's office is continued, the public prosecutor's office (in accordance with the definition that the deputy prosecutor's office is permanent) must also be applied to the deputy public prosecutor. It's a pity there aren't even 60 people in this room right now, but I don't want to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and the determination of the quorum. It's a great honor for the people who stayed here to hear arguments about the proposed amendments and the additions to the law, but that's about those who aren't here with us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28183	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28184	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, provisions of Article 3. The bill suggests that if the public prosecutor's office is abolished, the deputy public prosecutor does not continue his duties, since his office is not permanent. Also, in Article 3(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The draft law states on which public prosecutor's office the Republic Public Prosecutor continues. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed an amendment to remain in office in the event of the suspension of the public prosecutor's office and the deputy prosecutor's office. For what? Although, in the light of the bill, the proposer states that the essence of the distinction between these two functions is the continuity of functions, where the bill provides that the public prosecutor has, of course, a permanent function in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the deputy public prosecutor's office is not permanent, but that he is elected for an eight-year term, this cannot be the basic criterion for which it is necessary for the Republic Public Prosecutor to decide to suspend the duties, or the Deputy Prosecutor's office, because the deputy public prosecutor in practice performs all the same tasks, he has the same obligations and the same powers as the public prosecutor. Of course the D.A.'s Attorney General is the head of everyone who works in the public prosecutor's office, but the operationality of the public prosecutor's office is right on top of the deputy attorney general. As a result, this amendment gives one more quality in the field of public prosecution affairs, in particular, which can result in different grounds for the termination of office and the public prosecutor himself during the same period, sudden resignation, death or departure on another basis. The question is also with these people, the deputy public prosecutors, what are you going to do, because their functions are stopping, they need to work on these or similar jobs. It remains the obligation of the one who did this to hire you, because they shouldn't stop their working relationship. First of all, the condition of a permanent function should not be present. The remaining deputy public prosecutor's office should be conditioned. The Republic's public prosecutor, under the bill, decides in the event of an end to the public prosecutor's office whether the public prosecutor will remain in office. What does that mean? The only coincidence, some sanctions, applies only to the deputy public prosecutor, because in the event of the public prosecutor's suspension, there is no need for this public prosecutor's office, it belongs to another municipal public prosecutor's office or district attorney, if it is the district public prosecutor's office, and continues to work normally. If there are already conditions for the Republic Public Prosecutor to decide to abolish the public prosecutor's office, then the need for this work ceases. So, the need for the work of a public prosecutor and a deputy public prosecutor, and if there is a need for work, then there is a need for both.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28185	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28186	Regardless of the formulation, this member of the law concerns the position and status of deputy public prosecutor in the event of a change in the organisation of the prosecution. With the amendment, we wanted the public prosecutor and his deputy to be equal in these status matters. Why? Because we can't accept what the bill is trying to impose, which is that the deputy public prosecutor has the status of assistant minister. That's about that level. In the event of the ministry being abolished or in the event of a new election, the formation of the government and formation of new ministries, the old ministerial assistants practically go to ice, their working-legal status has been regulated for another year, but can no longer count on them to be in a working relationship. It is similar to the position and deputy public prosecutor, unless this amendment is accepted, and thus we show that we do not appreciate the job. The deputy works practically during the procedure, takes over all the procedural actions authorized by the public prosecutor and all works on behalf of the public prosecutor, less or more quality, and deserves special attention both in terms of status and there is no reasonable reason why the public prosecutor would be protected in the event of the prosecution's termination, and his deputy practically disproved, as if he had no acquired any right of employment, as if simply that man had served and no longer existed. I would just point out that perhaps you should consider that prosecutors' deputies are obliged to do all sorts of things under mandatory instructions, that they are very often in the investigation and during the main investigation of the obligation to represent some of the prosecutor's views that they would never personally or professionally represent or say, and very often there is a situation that when they leave the courtroom they simply apologize to the other side for having to talk to them during the trial. There is no valid reason why a status difference would be made in case the relevant prosecution is abolished. Public prosecutors must not be dispronounced, because if such a norm exists, then we should consider how a man will act as a deputy public prosecutor if he knows in the beginning that because of the transition of these affairs to a larger place in front of his municipal court he is taking over another prosecutor's office; whether it will affect their safety, their stability, the quality of work and the basic guarantees that are necessary for one quality work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28187	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) This concludes the work in the morning part of the session and at 15.00 hours we continue our work in the afternoon part of the amendment to Article 4 submitted by MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28188	Please insert your MP cards into your MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. We continue the debate in detail on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28189	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose an amendment to the National Assembly on its own in front of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. The member regulates that the government decides to object to a decision on the distance of the public prosecutor and deputy. It is said, under the Constitution, that the public prosecutor's office is permanent, but not for the deputies, but to be appointed by the government for eight years. These proposed amendments and additions violate the constitutional division of competences to legislative, judicial, and executive powers, and the prosecution will become the authority of the administration without judicial and executive jurisdiction. I have proposed by amendment that Article 4 be deleted and that it remain Article 43. The public prosecutor's law, which provides for a decision on distance to be allowed to object to the High Council of Justice within three days. I think this is better than the solution proposed in these amendments and additions, where the objection to distance is intended to be submitted to the government instead of the High Council of Justice. In this way, the government becomes a second-degree body, or body above the prosecution, contrary to the principle of power-sharing. It is unacceptable to object to a decision on the distance of the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor to be decided by the government rather than by the High Council of Justice, as this represents a direct interference of the executive in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28190	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28191	This is an amendment to Article 4 relating to Article 43 of the existing Law, which reads: "A decision on distance is permitted", which was set out in the Law, "The High Council of Justice", and the Government proposes that the amendment be allowed to object to the Government "in three days". The amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party requires that the word "Government" be replaced by the words "the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, a decision on distance is allowed to object to the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since the proposal to elect a public prosecutor and appoint a deputy prosecutor is in the responsibilities of the National Assembly, it is necessary, consistently, that the complaint is not referred to the High Council of Justice, but to the committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This would also give us greater parliamentary control and participation by all citizens of Serbia, represented through the MPs, in the appointment, the election, or when objecting to those who work in the judicial bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28192	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28193	With this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party specifies something that might look like a second-degree body. Of course, the competent authority of the National Assembly is not a second-degree body, but in this situation where there is no clear definition of where the prosecution belongs and when accessing the decision to elect prosecutors and deputies, or to appoint the National Assembly, it is logical that it be one who has more, in this case, the most, and that is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; it is quite justified that this temporary status or temporary status, when the prosecutor is temporarily away from his office, as a second-degree body that settles under a possible complaint, decides either the National Assembly or its committee. We have been identified as the committee responsible. It's probably the Justice and Administration Committee. A similar solution exists when it comes to the immunity of holders of judicial functions, and there is no reason why such a principle should not be present in these suspensions. We consistently represent our position where a public prosecutor should be found, who should appoint him, who should choose him, and according to previous amendments and this amendment to the final conventions, we are developing this political position.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28194	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreten Mitrovica. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28195	The essence of our amendment is to delete Article 5, which is deleted in Article 44(2). The High Judicial Council should have the authority to abolish a decision on the possible distance of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor before the resolution procedure is completed. Therefore, Article 44 is clear and it assumes that the distance from duty takes place until the detention and termination of the procedure for the resolution or termination of the criminal proceedings, possibly where there are reasonable reasons for this, and that the High Council of Justice may suspend the decision to depart before the end of the discharge procedure. Therefore, the powers of the High Council of Justice and, in this case, should remain the same, according to our determination that the High Council of Justice has certain powers and competences regarding the issue of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28196	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic, submitr of the amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28197	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, I also submitted an amendment to article 6 in front of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Otherwise, this member of the bill provides for a solution to the transfer of the deputy public prosecutor to a republican public prosecutor. I have suggested that Article 6 be deleted because a much better legal solution under which the High Council of Justice decides to move is, that is, a solution to the transfer of the deputy prosecutor. Under the current Public Prosecutor's Law, this was a member of the 45th, and he regulated that "the deputy public prosecutor may be transferred to another public prosecutor's office of the same rank, only with his written consent. The transfer decision is made by the High Council of Justice. The deputy public prosecutor permanently continues to serve in another public prosecutor's office." That, in my opinion, was a better solution than what is offered to Article 6. The bill, where, as with Article 4 (I have just explained the amendment) and even the proposed amendments and additions, violates the division of the Constitution into legislative, judicial and executive power. The prosecutions become the authorities of the administration, the government is an authority above the prosecution, and the deputy public prosecutor, who has so far been employed in the judiciary with special rights and powers, will now be employed by the authorities, which is also contrary to the principle of power-sharing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28198	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a National MP, Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28199	Ladies and gentlemen of the Presidency, on behalf of the SPS MPs, I suggest that Article 8 be deleted. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, and to remain a member of 56th, as it said; there is a completely different choice. It's particularly surprising and confusing here that, for example, in a relatively short time, they make diametrically opposed proposals. Only if you look at this member, three officials, means a public prosecutor, a deputy public prosecutor and a deputy, as if they're doing totally diametrically opposite jobs, is that kind of a choice. So, one is proposed by the government, elected by the Assembly, the other is proposed by the minister of justice, elected by the government, and the third is re-proposed by the government, and elected by the Assembly. I think it could have been avoided, and that's one of the reasons why I'm proposing an amendment, starting with the fact that the judiciary is what could have proposed candidates for a deputy, or a public prosecutor, and then practically doing the job in the Assembly. This so much before there were many similar suggestions. I remember that when we had only a few members in the University Act in 1998, where the government appointed some officials, besides the Dean, the same people who are proposing today that the government choose, or the minister, they were absolutely against it; the whole of Europe, or the European Union, was involved against one of these, as they said, non-civilization laws. When it came to power, later, that same law, those same members, used maximum and set up their officials, from the rector to the dean and to other functions. It's a similar situation, and now it's repeating. In fact, we passed this law a few months ago. There's not much reason. If it is a state of emergency, we accept it as a state that can be tolerated, but it is a tragedy that this law will apply even after the emergency and it will be applied after 1 May, and after Easter (for when an emergency is announced); and, what is worst in this whole thing, it is that this law will be applied after, and when the change of power occurs. Therefore, we suggest that this article be deleted and that it remain a member of the 56th text as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28200	Anybody else answer for a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28201	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the proposed changes in the position of public prosecutors, more specifically, the deputy public prosecutor, is expressed in this article. For the sake of reminders, I would once again warn you about the way the public prosecutors were elected under the provisions of the previous Public Prosecutor's Law, so the law that was in force since 1991, with amendments in 1992 until 2001. So, the republican public prosecutor, under the provisions of Article 31 of the Law, elected the National Assembly, on the proposal of the National Assembly's competent working body. It's the shortest defined procedure. So, the working body of the Assembly, i.e. The Committee on Justice Affairs was the one who proposed to the National Assembly on the selection of public prosecutors. We started with this article from the law that was in force from 1991 to 2001, and in 2001 a set of laws in the area of the judiciary was put into the assembly procedure, to which the issue was settled in a different way. A set of such laws was submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, with the agreement of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority, so DOS. The envisaged solutions for the election of public prosecutors were then based on a distinction between the public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors, and the SPS reacted to the amendments to equalise the situation. However, our amendments were then, so in October 2001, not respected and a law was passed setting out how public prosecutors were elected, as provided for in the legislative proposal. However, in 2002, those solutions we proposed a year earlier were adopted, presented as a proposal from the government and there were changes and changes, i.e. the addition of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, when amendments were adopted by member 56, which regulate the choice of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, and said in Article 1 : "The public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor elects the National Assembly, on the proposal of the High Council of Justice". Today again, in another case, this provision appears. The proposed amendments and additions delete these solutions, which again speaks about the inconsistency of the policy in relation to the judiciary, by the DOS, and I don't really know what ideas they'll be able to think of for the legislators of these changes and the addition of the laws in the next period, because they obviously have no clear views on these issues. Again, I must say that we cannot accept the solutions proposed by these amendments and additions, precisely because there is no difference between public prosecutors and public prosecutors' deputies; that their choice must be regulated in a way that will provide for their independence; that the motion for appointing the public prosecutor's office, more specifically for the selection of public prosecutor's office, cannot be a government, but that should be a High Council of Justice; that public prosecutorial office holders must be elected in the National Assembly, on the proposal of the High Council of Justice, and that the deputy public prosecutors must be elected by the same procedure, and not by the very broad powers of the executive authority, which these powers can and how to abuse. That's why I hope I've been able to give you the genealogy of the amendments and the addition of the laws or the movement of the status of the public prosecutor in the last few years. Our views are unchanged and we think this amendment would contribute to better regulation of the situation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28202	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? There's a word from the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28203	Of course, the intention of the applicant of the amendment is good. And the very definition of the prosecution's idea is that he's an independent administrative judicial body. This means self-resistance in doing his jobs and independent of power. Here we get again the subject of subjugation of the judiciary, or public prosecutorial functions. There's an institution to be built here. If a government that thinks that by controlling and holding a public prosecutor's office, it's stronger, it's wrong. Thus, it does not contribute to the building of neither its authority nor its reputation. If we start with that people's "power lying in topuza, the traces smell inhumane", so here too, the concentration of power in the government will simply not contribute to the construction of institutions and the construction of the state, but rather, it will only weaken the state and position of the government, because it does not care about the construction of institutions in which citizens will have confidence and who will be able to turn. It is about building an institution that will be subjugated. That's why it's important to pull the parallel here. I don't see that there are any other intentions besides this to subjugate the prosecution, to pass a law like this. There are no solutions like this anywhere in the world, not even in Montenegro, to which we have called. Such solutions will be unique. They may be in line with military junta in South America or with what Pinochets and others ruled, but they certainly do not comply with the way one should rule in a democratic and legal European state. This is how we approach what we used to, when we were opposition, talk and tie to Milosevic, Saddam, North Korea and others. We're acting now, or you want to act the same way, to subjugate the judiciary. I'm sorry that there's a lot of people sitting here who thought differently when they were opposition and who thought we were going to work differently. I think we need to take care of what we do and what we leave behind. It should be borne in mind that we leave the state behind and that we institutions leave behind, if one day we are not in these benches, when some other MPs sit there. The beating's got two ends. There were words that the Rules of Procedure that was brought to the DSS proposal was a bad Rules of Procedure. It's a rule of law that may be good for those who rule, but it's bad for the opposition. As someone who took part in making it, I can say that it was a bad Rules of Procedure and that beatings always have two ends. You should also make sure that the beating has two ends and that the other end works.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28204	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28205	Article 8 The draft law shall be determined by the decision-making authority. It decides on the choice, the appointment and, by that logic of the matter, it makes a final decision on the resolution. To see the difference in concepts, I will read what is now in the law, which is a member of the 56th current law, which says: "The public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. The number of deputy public prosecutors for each public prosecutor's office determines the National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice." The government wants to change that, and it suggests that it reads: "The public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government. The deputy public prosecutor is appointed by the government, at the proposal of the minister in charge of the judiciary. The number of deputy public prosecutors for each public prosecutor's office determines the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government." With this amendment, we would like to return it to what state would guarantee that a public prosecutor and deputy were relieved of some of the pressures that by nature things are something that follows the executive authority. Staffing in the public prosecutor's office is not an executive function. It can't even be if we in law state in some provision that the government will appoint deputy public prosecutor. The fact that it eventually passes the law does not essentially indicate that it is an executive function, but rather a function that belongs to the legislative body. As a result, we proposed by amendment that Article 56 be amended and read: "The Republic Public Prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. District and municipal public prosecutors, Deputy Prosecutors of the Republic and Deputy Prosecutors of the District and Municipal Public Prosecutors appointed the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Republic Public Prosecutor. The number of deputy public prosecutors for each public prosecutor's office determines the National Assembly on the proposal of the Republic Public Prosecutor." We believe that these provisions provide a guarantee of the independence of a public prosecutor in the performance of his office, for the simple reason that he, as a body that needs to protect constitutionality and legality, which needs objectively, impartially, without any influence, pressure, and can be said and independently, that he should decide on who he is going to pursue, should be independent in full, and for the sake of uniform application of our regulations and for the security of that part of human rights that are restricted by the same team of rights that belong to other people. As a result, this amendment establishes this independence in one specific way, at least in that part of the decision which chooses and appoints. In earlier amendments to this law, there were few terminology problems, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in provisions concerning the public prosecutor, reads "the elections of the National Assembly". According to that logic, some have concluded that the National Assembly is not authorized to appoint. The National Assembly, as the highest authority and as the body of the legislative authority, is authorized to appoint, be empowered to regulate it, especially in those areas for which the Constitution does not fully develop the whole concept, which is the situation with the deputy public prosecutors. According to the Constitution, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also performs other tasks laid down by law. I would not specify the provisions of other material laws under which the National Assembly also does some work, although they are not as taxingly stated in the Constitution itself. So there is no interference if the deputies are appointed by the National Assembly, or the problem if they are doing so on the proposal of the Republic Public Prosecutor. I would like to point out once again that, after the adoption of the Law on the Regulation of Courts and completely new powers and jurisdiction, although few can talk about jurisdiction, but new powers of the Supreme Court of Serbia, we practically have a Republic Public Prosecutor for whom we cannot say with precision what court he is facing. Still, he's the one who's equating criminal policy in that part of the prosecution. That is why it is necessary for the prosecution to become the most closely bound and close to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Nor does God know what kind of guarantee, because of the overall relationship of forces in the National Assembly, but it is a much greater guarantee, but if the prosecution is put under the patronage of the Republic Government, which is quite a bit (not only this government, it is the tendency of all governments, the proneness of executive authorities), because of this efficiency, it is also able to go beyond some basic human rights, knowingly or unconsciously, that is not so important. The tendency to violate human rights exists primarily from the state. A public prosecutor should protect our citizen and his guaranteed rights, above all, from the state. Of course, other situations arise later when other subjects appear as perpetrators of acts that threaten human rights. So we're literally going to our concept of the place and role of the Republic Public Prosecutor and the D.A.'s office at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28206	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yes, MP Dragan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28207	Just as an addition to the explanation we've heard. The amendment was submitted by the applicant in favour of returning to the solutions set out in the previous Public Prosecutor's Office Act, which provides for the committee responsible for the National Assembly to propose the holders and judicial and public prosecutorial functions. I will remind you that it is a more democratic and better solution than what is proposed by amendments and additions to the law. So, at the end of the line, if the High Council of Justice does not propose to the National Assembly public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors, then it is better to propose it to the board of this assembly, than to do so to the Government or to appoint deputy public prosecutors. With that in mind, I will remind you of the broad powers that, in the United States, there is a President of the United States who, in accordance with those principles that every executive authority wants to control a little bit of judicial authority, has the authority to appoint a judge to a place that has been vacant in the Supreme Court of the United States. So it's one of the bad examples of how in parallel law executive authority refers to the court. Accordingly, we must look at the public prosecutors in the concept of the judiciary, not under the authority of the executive authority, and this amendment is much better than the solution which is now for the third time, therefore in a changed form, delivered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- it is proposed to propose to the National Assembly of Public Prosecutors, and only to appoint, in accordance with its will, Deputy Prosecutors. This will allow very broad control, very broad intelligence, and why not say, in line with what we've had in the last few years to see, a very large number of abuses. Because this government and this government have proved in countless cases that they want to put under their control not only the public prosecutor's office, but also the whole of the judiciary, so we have had numerous duels and bickerings in the media between the holders of the supreme judicial functions, which ultimately resulted in the resignation of Serbian Supreme Court President Leposava Karamarkovic, who, according to her arguments, pleaded for the principled judiciary, for the judiciary independent of influence on the side; and finally, in the light of her resignation, it is said that just for the sake of defending these principles of independence of the judiciary and left the judiciary. Such a solution is much better than the proposed solution that the government is absolutely asking about everything that is related to the deputy public prosecutors and the public prosecutors themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28208	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a representative of the amendment's applicants, MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28209	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8. where we propose that "the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government" and that "the number of deputy public prosecutors determine the National Assembly for each public prosecutor's office, on a proposal from the Government". The amendment is a somewhat compromise solution between the proposals so far submitted and the proposal submitted by the ministry to this assembly. We are fundamentally against the government getting involved in the choice of prosecutors and having any influence at all, but this time we respect the fact that this will happen either this way, either through the High Council of Justice or even in the event of a third proposer, and we understand that the Government will have an impact on that. In principle, however, we have always advocated that the congregation has much greater significance and that this is still the last place in which it will be judged in such matters. This adds to the first amendment that we have submitted, and referred to Article 2, where we have proposed that both prosecutors and deputies be elected by the Assembly, not appointed by the Government. Once again, I think there is room for this amendment; if the government wants to correct this proposal in some way, it would be wise to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28210	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28211	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, on the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Prosecutors, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9 where I propose that an existing member be deleted. In fact, an existing Article 57 of the current law provides for the regulation of who can be a public prosecutor, so it says that, in addition to the legal exam, a certain working experience is needed, so that the municipal public prosecutor is scheduled for two years, for the deputy municipal public prosecutor for one year. An existing solution has been retained in the draft amendments and additions to the Law and this is not disputed. For the district attorney, the current law envisioned six years, as deputy district attorney for four years, and the new draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law for the district attorney is scheduled for four years, and for the deputy district attorney for three years. The Republic Public Prosecutor has so far been considered to have had a 12-year working experience, and now a six-year working experience is proposed. Shortening the necessary work experience for the district attorney from six to four years of age, and for the deputy district attorney from four to three years of age, the Republic Public Prosecutor from 12 to six years of age, all this could lead to the selection of less experienced persons, in that sense and fewer experts in the public prosecutor's office. Also, the appointment of deputy public prosecutors by the government is unacceptable for us from the SPS, however, the colleagues discussed it in detail, so I would no longer detail it. When prescribing conditions for the selection of a public prosecutor, or for the appointment of a deputy public prosecutor, the conditions for the candidate to be worthy of the public prosecutor's duties are laid down. The question arises who determines this dignity, or is it not the introduction of partylikeness? Moreover, such a formulation also gives too much space for various abuses in relation to who is worthy and who is not worthy of the public prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28212	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28213	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to comment on the advocacy, I'm going to pay a little more attention to what is proposed by the amendment and the addition of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office where Article 9 reduces the necessary working experience for the election, and now, as proposed in the new text of the law, and the appointment of public prosecutor's office holders and deputy public prosecutors. Indeed, if we are in the interest of raising the level of expertise of those bodies that are crucial to the identification of the perpetrators of incriminating acts, if we want to raise the level of expertise of those bodies that are crucial to the prevention of crime, if we have to take care of what kind of people are going to sit in those places, and should represent the interests of our entire society, the whole state, in relation to those who are perpetrators of crime, is it really good that we are reducing the necessary work experience that is foreseen for these places. It states here that it takes two years of working experience for the municipal public prosecutor, one year for the deputy district attorney, four years for the district attorney, three years for the deputy district attorney, six years for the Republic Public Prosecutor and the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. Okay, hypothetically, there have been comments here about the power of a district attorney, perhaps even bigger than the president of the Republic, which is discriminatory, but the power of the district attorney and how great he is. Do you think it's a good idea to find a lawyer, a man with a law school, at the site of a district attorney, with the conditions for performing a public prosecutor's office and with four years of working experience? That's not enough. As much as individual qualities as may be extremely high and high, globally it must be taken into account that people with great working experience, people who are experienced, people who have knowledge from all areas of social life, so that things like that don't happen, that the public prosecutor's office bearers, say, don't know what the general urban plan is, don't know how they're implemented in the works of some decision of the municipal authorities, what's the essence of some decisions of executive bodies, etc. The fact is that it exists, the fact is that the situation in our judiciary isn't too good. However, we must try to make sure that these provisions on conditions for obtaining and performing public prosecutorial functions are at least better crystallised, improved, and not reduced to a lower level that will allow people who are potentially experienced and professional enough to carry out their work with quality and independence. That is why the essence of our amendment is that this Article 9 is deleted, because we really think it is proposed to shorten the necessary work experience from six to four years, for the deputy district attorney from four to three years, for the Republic Public Prosecutor and Deputy from 12 to six years (there is a drastically reduced deadline) can lead to the selection of less experienced persons, in that sense and less professional persons, on these very responsible public prosecutor functions. I would like to point out, in particular, that in the case of the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic, work experience is twice reduced, from 12 to six years old. We find this solution unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28214	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. He's not there. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28215	The SRS wants to change the government's proposal and to increase the required years of work for the election of public prosecutors and the appointment of deputy public prosecutors. We find it inadmissible that when it comes to a municipal public prosecutor, one of the conditions for the election will be a two-year internship in a legal profession -- two years in a society, two years in a father who has a private company, as a secretary, possibly, a company or two years in any other company, and in the affairs of legal professions that may not even have a single point of touch with the affairs being done in the prosecution. Unfortunately, the situation is that we also got deputy public prosecutors, and I have to mention poor judges, some people with a thin legal experience, who should apply perhaps simple, perhaps complicated provisions. It doesn't even matter. In any case, provisions concerning freedom and the rights and duties of a man and a citizen, something that is most light in a man's life, which must be respected, which is life, honor, dignity, property, etc. We have uneducated personnel and that's our big problem. It's not people's fault that the uneducated get out of school, which is no longer like 20 years ago, and that these exams of ours, professional and judicial, have quite lost their weight; so we have a hyperproduction of these diplomas, personnel, and in fact we don't have the knowledge and maybe we don't have that elemental work and values in people anymore, and we don't want to find out a little bit more and to go a little further. What we can all conclude and not make a mistake, which is that with two years of working experience, a graduate lawyer with a joint judicial exam cannot acquire the necessary expertise to be a municipal public prosecutor, even if they accept that the municipal public prosecutor is a counter-collar function. The man has deputies. It is insufficient work experience and it is impossible to carry out training. Unfortunately, for 15 - 20 years, good practice has been abandoned, which is that people are admitted to the prosecution or court as interns, passed a judicial exam, so for several years they work as professional associates, and judges and public prosecutors are later selected from that facility. Today, it is simply a practice for us to have people who have absolutely no touch points with no court and no prosecution. As a result, it is not surprising that the investigation of the deputy public prosecutor cannot ask the suspect a question, and even if he asks a question from the very question, it is evident that man does not know the matter. He doesn't know when the law was passed, he doesn't know there's a regulation. In order not to make this happen, in order to raise that dignity, to avoid pointless criminal proceedings, and we have criminal proceedings that have been initiated on the basis of ignorance, ignorance of regulations and ignorance that there is a regulation, we have asked this amendment to increase the necessary work experience necessary for the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28216	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28217	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of fellow Petrovic and mine consists in the following. As for the work experience for the prosecutor's office and the deputy prosecutor's office, we believe that after a judicial examination, it takes work experience: three years for the municipal public prosecutor and two years for the deputy district attorney, within which one year is in the judicial authorities; five years for the district attorney and four years for the deputy district attorney, under which the two years are in the judicial authorities; six years for the Republic Public Prosecutor and for the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, of which three years are in the judicial authorities. Frankly, this is quite a low limit, given the importance of public prosecutorial function, but this is some minimum that you shouldn't go under. It is these days that we are intensively talking about how important the public prosecutor's office is, and on the other hand, we are lowering the criteria for the selection of public prosecutors to unsuspecting borders. I would remind you that earlier it was a practice for a municipal public prosecutor or the president of a municipal court to be elected from the order of the deputy district attorneys, or the district court. This would mean that this man who takes over as a municipal public prosecutor has experience in the municipal prosecutor's office, that he has experience in the district attorney's office, that this experience and knowledge can be passed on to young colleagues and that he can perform the function properly. We also think that this is more of a political stance, because there are a large number of people who now want to take over these functions, have no proper experience, have no experience from the judiciary. That is why a number of people who are political equalists, and without experience, are wanted to be brought to these functions. The public prosecutor's office also implies one great responsibility to all citizens, because public interests and public goods are being protected, so the proposer should take all of this into account and accept the amendment of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28218	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Joca Arsic and joint MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28219	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10 which we have provided for its erasure. This amendment is precisely followed by our previous amendments, and this new member is scheduled to add, in the name of Chapter III, Chapter 4, the words "and appointing" in the title above Article 58, the words "and appointments", in Article 58, paragraph 1, after the words "insecutors and" are added to the words "nomination", and the words "High Council of Justice" are replaced by the words "Minister in charge of the judiciary". As we can see, this article is scheduled for prosecutors to be named, and in this sense this alignment of the earlier text of the law with the new idea of appointing prosecutors. A lot of words have been said here about the prosecution's name. I don't think there's any need to explain anything special about it. However, here is an interesting proposal, which is to make advertising appointments. I don't understand this term, in which way you'll be advertised to appoint a prosecutor. I understand the ad for the election, but I don't understand the ad for the appointment. I don't understand until the end, I may not have been able to figure it out, but I don't think it's clear to others until the end, and I warn that such a formulation should not stand, and aside from whether or not it should be named. Our position is that prosecutors should be elected and has already been said on several occasions here. There's something else I wanted to add and notice about the appointed prosecutors. For example, the government's appointed district attorney should have two years' staff. I will remind you that it takes at least four years to pass a judicial exam. So, to get a qualification that you can judge or sue, it takes you four years of working experience to get out and possibly pass a judicial exam. It is said here that it takes two years of work to perform this function. I don't think this solution is correct or good, but most of it is the one who has the power to decide. We warn of such solutions, that they are not correct and good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28220	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28221	The essence of our amendment is that Article 11 is deleted and is contained in the fact that Article 11 provides that Article 59, which regulates the submission of the words "High Council of Justice" are replaced by the words "Minister of Justice" and in paragraph 2 is replaced by "status or appointment". Also, Article 3, which provides for a personal list to be provided to the High Judicial Council for each candidate from the public prosecutor's office, is deleted. Why do we propose to delete the proposed solutions and the remaining of such solutions contained in the existing Public Prosecutor's Law? It is simply because we are seeking to remain in force a solution that will provide that the deputy public prosecutors cannot be appointed, that they must be elected as public prosecutors, that the provisions on the continuity of their function must be respected and that this must not be done by the government on behalf of the National Assembly. So, the essence of our amendment is that the submission of applications in line with the status that we advocate, with public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, is regulated in the same way as before, that we do not come to the situation of applying to the Ministry of Justice within 15 days of the publication of the ad in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". There may also be comical situations, as Mr. Arsic has already mentioned, to be advertising or reporting on the ad for appointment, which is indeed not the nonsens of its kind. I think even the Legislative Committee would have to react in this regard with one necessary legal-technical editorial of the legal text. If we don't have a quorum, we'll determine it in no time, but I think we'll have a quorum. As for the promotion of the legal text, I think you really need to make one move in that direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28222	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rada Bajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28223	Dear fellow Members, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 12, i.e. I propose that it be deleted. Article 12 refers to Article 60 of the current law, where it is said that the High Council of Justice collects information on the expertise and dignity of candidates for the deputy public prosecutor; and now is foreseen to do so by the minister of justice. Through many amendments, we have shown and pointed out that the amendments and additions of the Law on Public Prosecutorship in many provisions significantly violate the constitutional principle of the division of power to legislative, judicial and executive, and in particular to the deputy public prosecutor who has practically lost all the powers he has so far and has directly subdued himself under the authority of the administration or executive authority, by not complaining about who has appointed him. Thus, his right was completely demoted and thus the basic principle of division was violated into three segments of government. It says here the minister collects information about expertise and dignity. We are really interested in how he will determine the dignity of one candidate if there are several and if the two had the exact same characteristics, the same grades from the university, the same work in the ministry and the evaluation of colleagues. It is simply left to the minister a wide field of authority to determine according to its intent, which will certainly be party membership, i.e. party similarity or, in an even worse case, obedience, the candidate and be determined according to the candidate. Is there anything worse than influence in such a way as to be the deputy public prosecutor? He'll practically do as the guy who set him up tells him. There's no "n" out of independence, and there's really a question of where it came from, and that's what hastily brought about in a state of emergency, when it certainly can't be brought up with good definitions, and even when it comes to being followed by a shadow of emergency and remain in regular time to be treated like that. Therefore, it is unacceptable that someone evaluates and assesses the dignity of a candidate on their own, and in practice it will be seen very quickly, which means an assessment of this dignity and who will be elected deputy public prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28224	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28225	And this amendment is due to the avoidance of the proposed choice and appointment of public prosecutors. Article 13 refers to the election proposal, which is defined by Article 61 of the text of the basic law, which states: "The High Council of Justice takes into account only the expertise and dignity of the judiciary when proposing public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Any proposal for a choice must be explained. "The reminders are working, and this member was struck by the government's changes and additions in July 2002. And this member was changed on the government's proposal in July 2002, and now again, it changes for the third time. Who knows what it'll be like in 90 days, when an opinion comes from the European Union. While I have already mentioned the European Union, I can regrettably conclude that the minister is not here and I have not been able to tell him until I have been present to suggest that, with regard to the provisions of all these laws relating to the reduction of human rights and civil liberties, before decisions are made in this assembly may not be too burning to consider that this assembly or this authority as a legislator of these laws requires an opinion in writing from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, so that we are not brought into a situation so that citizens who address their rights to the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg are in a position to collect enormous funds from the state based on violations of their rights. Just one well-intentioned message - it may not be bad, but it is up to you to make a decision that you think will be good, because you are the congregation majority and you are absolutely responsible for everything that is being made in this congregation. So, let me go back to this amendment - we propose that Article 13 be deleted and that the jurisdiction of the High Council of Justice remain in place to propose the election of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, and that in proposing prosecutors and deputies take into account the expertise and dignity, which must be extremely restrictively interpreted. Because it is very discussionable in which way the Ministry or the Minister of Justice will interpret which people are sufficiently professional or worthy and whether when proposing people for public prosecutorial functions will be more guided to account for their dignity or their obedience, party membership, similarity, etc. That is why our amendment to delete the proposed article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28226	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Slobodan Tomovic, subject to amendment to Article 14. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28227	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 14, on which I have submitted the amendment, states that the title above Articles 62 and 62 of the previous law are deleted. With the amendment I have submitted, I suggest that Article 14 of the bill be deleted. So to erase what should be deleted there, on the principle that negation is a negation of affirmation. Why? This morning, I was talking about the proposal for a law on the High Council of Justice, that there should not be any change in concepts at all if there is no undue need for this, or if something better is not obtained and something else. So that's where my commitment is extremely principled. If I talked about it this morning, it is my turn to stay consistent because article 62 says what it is that needs to be deleted "the election of public prosecutors and deputies", and article 62 says "The public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly, on the proposal of the High Council of Justice". If the proposed candidate is not elected, the committee is proposing new ones, and they are to be sworn in. So, for the same reasons that I felt that there was no need to change the concept of the work of the High Council of Justice, I suggest that, subsequently, no change in the way of choice, so to keep it the way it was. It's a principled pawn, and we haven't heard the real reasons for what's going to get better, because of course we're going to support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28228	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28229	The amendment, which, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I submitted to Article 14. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, I proposed that public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors be elected and appointed by the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Republic Public Prosecutor. If the proposed candidate is not elected or appointed, the committee responsible of the National Assembly will propose to the National Assembly of another candidate. If the candidate is not elected, or appointed, the minister responsible for the judiciary will again announce the election, i.e. the appointment. This amendment empowers the Republic Public Prosecutor to propose candidates for district and municipal public prosecutors and to appoint all deputy public prosecutors to be elected by the National Assembly. The minister of justice is given the authority to re-announce the election of public prosecutors and the appointment of deputies unless the candidate is elected or appointed. The prosecution is a specific state body and it is not possible to distinguish between the prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutors, because it is known in practice that the deputy public prosecutor is the one who actually performs specific prosecutorial functions. This bill in that section is the opposite of the Constitution, with Articles 103 to 106. The Constitution. The continuity of the public prosecutor's office is guaranteed by a constitution which does not know the category of deputy public prosecutor, which was created only for practical reasons and the scope of the work within a public prosecutor's office, and the public prosecutor's office is an independent state body that prosecutes perpetrators, the law of certain criminal offences, and invests legal means to protect legality, so it is logical for both the prosecutor and his deputy to be elected by the National Assembly. There is no legal basis for the government to take over the National Assembly's authority, and this current situation is temporary. Of course, when proposing to the National Assembly of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, the motion must take special care of what the legal formulation is, the dignity of the person to be proposed. Because if this is not taken into account enough, so the dignity of performing a public prosecutor's office is identified with a moral-political resemblance or possibly party membership of the prosecutor or his deputy, Milan Sarajlic will again happen to you. I am convinced, and I believe that also Milan Sarajlic's proponents will account for the very important role of the deputy special prosecutor to a worthy public prosecutor related to the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28230	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28231	This amendment practically changes the text of the existing article 62, so that I do not now explain what is now in the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements, because there is a erasure of the basic text. The idea of the SRS, which we initially presented in principle, is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should be a competent state body that elects public prosecutors and appoints deputy public prosecutor. Of course, the proposer of this election and the appointment should be a republican public prosecutor, as he is the only one who acts as an organ that has touch points with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, he is responsible for the staff policy in the prosecutor's office, for the expertise of these people, for the performance of all the functions and affairs of the prosecution's jurisdiction, and should certainly be a proponent. To one of the previous members, we have also proposed that the motion to elect a republican public prosecutor be the committee of the National Assembly, and in the following provisions of this amendment, below, we indicate that if the proposal does not receive the necessary majority, the next candidate is elected here, and then practically the proposer becomes the competent committee of the National Assembly, and if that candidate is not chosen, then practically the whole advertising process is repeated. Then it's proof that there's something wrong with the proposal, with the candidate, and that you need to repeat it all to get as high-quality a proposal as possible. In this way, if I may say so, there is only one representative of the executive authority in some touch points with the prosecution and with its election and appointment, which is the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, and only in that technical part of the preparation of the proposal, i.e. advertising the need. Of course, during this advertising, he must have the necessary contact with the republican public prosecutor, who shows real reception needs. We believe that this is a decent distance from which this independence of the prosecution is guaranteed that the executive authority is not so involved. Of course, the parliamentary majority, which supports the executive power, has its influence through the competent committee in the National Assembly, including in the elections and appointments here, and that is the legitimate right of those political groups that have a majority, and no matter how much someone to challenge, his argument is weak, because ultimately everything comes down to these cards and this vote. If the executive wants to have some influence, she's doing it here, in a legislative body, over the majority that supports the government. But if this were to be left to the government, and by the logic of things, this follows, if Article 62 was deleted, as proposed by the Government in the bill, then it's the interference of the executive authority and too brutally, and too much warning for the people of the prosecution that they have to take care of what they do, how they do, and then problems arise for both the law and the constitution, as well as for the elemental rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28232	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and MP Milan Stankovic submitted. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, despite the fact that your decision does not have direct parliamentary transfers, the SRS MPs will, according to all the laws submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, go out in accordance with the amendments, and in the length of five minutes after each amendment, as well as the deputy head of the parliamentary group, not because we want to hold back the course of the session in a certain way, which is sometimes the way we do, all depends on the strategy, but because we would point to key objections and the inability to accept your proposals in this package of laws. As for the unification of the criminal code, Mr. Minister, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, from this assembly speaker, stood up for it at the moment when the famous law package in the area of justice was adopted, which you yourself said was not written by those who submitted it to the National Assembly, but by some gentleman there, from some structure, and they just rephrase it and stamped it. Well, then we went out at least 50 or 100 times for a pay phone and said we couldn't agree on establishing the High Council of Justice, and we're basically staying in that position. As for my amendment, as Mr. Zoran Krasic said several times, from whom many could learn something from this area, because he did, and as an expert in law, and as deputy president of the parliamentary group in this emerging situation, when Mrs. Pop-Lazic was taken from her word, devoted himself to telling you that our concept is much better, more meaningful, for the simple reason that we believe that, with the continued prosecutorial function, this continuity should be represented by the deputies, because you, too now, as a minister, and earlier as a decades-old successful lawyer, you know that the deputy prosecutors are in practice doing everything that prosecutors should do. So practice is completely different. We also know that this dignity provided for the choice of Judge and Prosecutorial Officers should, in the right sense, mean that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must have insight; we advocate, therefore, that Mr Krasic has repeatedly said, that both prosecutors and deputies are elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the ministry, a public prosecutor's competition called, and that he is directly responsible, by proposing to the Committee on Justice and the administration of his deputy, is behind the man. It would not happen then that such a moral and any other qualification norm would be determined, as is the dignity of that function, and the case of Sarajlic would appear, so that everyone would wash their hands and say - we had nothing to do with it. So if you'll excuse me, please, if this is the highest legislative authority and if he, by nature of things, although we are strictly in favour of the separation of all three branches of government, has some superior role, because he decides on many things in relation to executive and judicial authority, we feel that much more should be taken into account, especially in the situation where many things are yet to surface. And the case itself is not fully enlightened, except that certain Mr. Milan Sarajlic is connected, as officially declared by the state body, with members of the Zemun clan, and what goes beyond the hill we'll see and find out, the days are ahead of us, right? Of course, even this state of emergency won't last forever. The public of the assembly will be available, in accordance with the highest democratic principles, and I guess that's not just a flossula that's being heard, and then, what our people would say, "to both of us, to whom the outsiders," anyone who did what he did will have to bear responsibility for everything that happened. (President: 5 minutes. ) I don't need it at all, Mrs. Micic, to warn me that it's the fifth minute, because I'm not in a basketball field racket, that I should shoot a three in a basket, I know exactly how much I can talk and what your intentions are in 5.01 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28234	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28235	Article 15. The bill requires the government's attorney to take an oath before taking office. Of course, public prosecutors in front of the National Assembly, the Republican Public Prosecutor in front of the National Assembly, and the deputy public prosecutor in front of the Prime Minister. It probably has its own logic in the fact that the government wants to translate the appointment of a deputy to executive power and, by some logic of the oath, who sets up, whoever appoints, before him, that solemn statement is given. I assume that was the main reason you chose this solution. We represent a different concept, that selection and appointment is done by the National Assembly. If these solemn statements are to be made, it is a little raving of this -- an oath, which a man swears to, etc. Not to mention those oaths, the practice has shown, they don't mean anything. Those solemn statements are about those individuals who sort of deal with something about human rights. That is why these solemn statements were introduced, that they would once again vow to respect the Constitution as a sanctuary, that in their work they would abide by the Constitution and the law and, likely, they would respect human rights. If we go by that logic of what the solemn statement means, which is, in practice, a statement of full trust in the Constitution and the law, then all these solemn statements should be made here and not given to the representatives of the executive authority. So it's because of the importance of the very concept of oath and the solemn statement. Of course, this amendment of ours isn't just about who needs to be sworn in, it's about a whole new concept, different from the government's -- who chooses and who appoints. That if the government does this job, they can show us these examples where some prosecutors have resigned themselves. Of course, we called them in time. You disobeyed us. One was also reported guilty by the SRS and some other people with whom he persuaded and influenced a future protected witness. Well, it hasn't been a year, and the man himself resigned, probably under the influence of a personal responsibility, that he might have been inactive and careless in the work he was doing. He took the oath, I have to use the name, you won't take it from me, and Slobodan Milivojevic, one of the detainees, seems to be my lawyer. Otherwise, he used to be a deputy... (President: Please return to the topic, and that is the amendment to Article 15) You probably had a chance to read our proposal to the Justice and Administration Committee back in 2001. It was the occasion of Biljana Radovanovic, but the whole nomenclature was in the "Mercedes-benz" affair. That's well-known to you. And to Dusan Mihajlovic is well-known, and to Happy Lucić is well-known. You wrote, you answered me, etc. Mr. Slobodan Milovjevic swore an oath, but in what kind of relationship he was in justice... (President: 5 minutes, as well as the topic. I'm not gonna use the fifth minute. You can only assume, and you'll only be able to find out what was going on in the investigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28236	National MP Siniša Mitrović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28237	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, in accordance with article 81, I propose that the working day of this session be up to 20.00 hours and ask the Assembly to make its statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28238	I would like to vote on the proposal of MP Sinisa Mitrovica to extend our working hours to 20.00 hours. 93 against 25, no abstentions, no 30 votes, out of 148. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the National MP Sinisha Mitrovica to extend the work to 20.00 hours. Does MP Milan Stankovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28239	In front of the SPS on Article 15, I submitted an amendment proposing that Article 15 be deleted. This Article 15, as well as others in this law, refers to public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Most colleagues, especially those who are experts in this area, have said that it is important that the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor are not removed from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, but that they have a certain independence that would ensure justice in the decision-making of the judicial authorities for most Serbian citizens. That's why we suggest that Article 15 of this law be deleted in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28240	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic jointly submitted to the 15th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. There is no application for a word on this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and joint MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, there isn't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Nesovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, there isn't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. There is no application for a word on this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 17. It's a bill of law. In Article 66(2), the words "and the Government" are deleted. If the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutors do not take office, the Republic Public Prosecutor should inform the National Assembly as the body who elects them and appoints them, not the Government. All the legal projects you have so far highlighted and adopted with your majority of 126 votes are illegal and undemocratic. That's what the future will show you and prove. And this law on amendments and additions to the Public Prosecutor's Law, you gentlemen have already searched 2002. Are you going to patch up all these laws, end up, depending on the day-to-day political needs? Why do you do all this when you know that tomorrow when you come down from power, they won't be able to function anymore? This set of laws that we are searching today is not satisfied with your mentors who are introducing you to Europe and caring for human rights. And you answer them -- let us change all this and it won't last, maybe just six months or two years, until we finish what we started. That excuse is bad for you. Well, you've been in power for three years now, and we, as a Serbian radical, have referred you to all these activities that are current today. The constitutional basis is in your mind, and you and the Constitution don't have a single touch point, except that you've introduced a state of emergency under the Constitution. We Serbian radicals have shown you everything that is happening to you today. That was funny to you back then, even unacceptable. Read all our press conferences led by Dr Vojislav Seselj since April 2001 and you will be told everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28242	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28243	With this amendment, consistent with the idea of the public prosecutor's place and role, we are changing the government's proposal in the sense that the words "and the Government" are deleted from Article 2. It's just an incredible situation, but it's possible and she has to be legally predicted that when a public prosecutor doesn't take office, we don't practically have a public prosecutor. In the position of the first member, it is said - if, without justifiable reason, he has not entered into office within two months of the election, or appointment, and this appointment refers to deputies. The Republic’s public prosecutor finds this fact and makes an appropriate solution and informs the National Assembly and the Government. The National Assembly must be for the prosecution, and the government for the deputy, according to the bill's proponents. Since we believe that the National Assembly should also choose and appoint, then it is not necessary to inform the Government, but we should all imagine that this situation is possible for the National Assembly to choose a man as a public prosecutor and that he does not find him suitable to report and take office for two months. Of course, the D.A. won't know what to put up with, there's deputies, there's practice up, the job's gonna go on, but this situation has got to worry us. It is possible and it has already happened in practice, not only when it comes to deputies, because deputies usually do it for small wages; only when he finds out how much pay he is disappointed and says - I better stay there; and public prosecutors usually find a better job in the meantime, so they avoid this job, they don't come two months, etc. This should warn us that these things should not happen, and if they already happen, those people who caused this situation to be elected and appointed by the Assembly, and they do not enter into office, that they can no longer count not only on future work in the prosecution but almost not on any state authority, because it is disrespecting the highest authority in this country. After all, it is a disrespect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have given him confidence to do a very responsible job. I only went out to explain what seriousness is needed and that it is necessary to take care when people are elected and when they are proposed for public prosecutors and I can make a free connection with those previous amendments regarding the necessary employment. It needs to be a guarantee of some seriousness, and the prosecution can't function unless there's a high degree of seriousness and responsibility, because it's done a very delicate and complex job that gets in the most sensitive things about a man, one life, one human century, dignity and the rights that a man has. That's why it takes a lot more serious access to this and a concept of how to train our prosecutions, starting with trainees, through expert associates, deputies to public prosecutors, because there must be no improvisation in the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28244	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28245	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 of the proposed law, and we propose this amendment to delete Article 18. The public prosecutor's status and the deputy prosecutor's office must be identical and the deputy prosecutor's office must be permanent, so it is unacceptable that the deputy public prosecutor's office be appointed and that their duty ceases after the end of the term of office of eight years, as well as if the public prosecutor's office in which they serve as deputy public prosecutor is suspended. I think that accepting this amendment and erasing article 18. The bill will not disturb the imagined concept of the Public Prosecutor's Law, because this member in the applicable law literally states: "The duties of the public prosecutor and the deputy cease at his request, when he ends his working life or when he is resolved". So, a very clear and precise member. With this amendment and addition proposal, this article is extremely complicated. I understand the need to relieve prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors individually for the reasons provided for in the provisions of the law, but it is a very symptomatic provision on the termination of the deputy prosecutor's office for the abolition of the entire public prosecutor's office, one state authority. I am sorry that there is no Justice Minister present now, Mr Batic, to ask him and to explain to me whether there is something else behind this that is not hiding, because, please, if the public prosecutor's office is lifted, the deputy prosecutor's office will cease. Isn't it behind this provision preparing the ground for the abolition of public prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija? I see it this way, this provision of the law. If that is not the case, nothing would bother the acceptance of this amendment and the retention of an existing member in the applicable law. If this is behind the intention of abolishing public prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija, then it is unfair, then it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for sovereignty in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, but is also contrary to Article 3. Resolution 1244 of the Security Council. After all, Mr Batic was in Kosovo and Metohija, he spoke to people from the judiciary, saw their torments and people from the judiciary from Kosovo and Metohija are very pleased with Mr Batic's performance and determination to preserve these organs. It is also well done when at one of the previous sessions a law has been withdrawn that has been tied up in determining the place of jurisdiction of the judicial authorities in Kosovo and Metohija. I think that by the time this attitude is made clear, this Article 18 of the proposed law should be deleted and our amendment accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28246	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. There's no application for a word. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28247	The objective of this amendment is to ensure that certain functions or certain individuals who perform these functions, which the proposal through the amendment and addition of the law wants to be included in the uncompromising fight against crime, is comprehensively secure. In principle, there have been several times heard from this pay phone that there are no differences in the work between a public prosecutor and his deputy. In practice, the public prosecutor is a person with great responsibility, based on the decisions he makes. Most of the operational work is carried out by his deputy, deputy public prosecutor. Here, by changing the existing law, the promoter introduces the possibility that the deputy public prosecutor should cease his post not only after eight years of choosing but also by abolishing the public prosecutor's work. I assume the motioner of these changes was referring to the prosecution's headquarters. It's something that ultimately causes the uncertainty, the instability of these people that the government has appointed as the deputy prosecutor. Why is it necessary for these people to provide security, primarily material and social and any other security, because it can be learned from the latest events, and especially when it comes to deputy public prosecutors, which, now irrelevant, you gentlemen, most of you in this assembly, have proposed. It was seen that they were prone to bribery, to corruption. Perhaps the reason to seek part of it is that they didn't have enough certainty. Maybe, I say, although that's not the main reason. It is now an opportunity for this proposal to amend and supplement the law in a way that avoids that mistake and that there is security for these people. Because if the public prosecutor who has been elected to the post performs that post by the end of the working century, what are the problems with the deputy public prosecutor's office until the end of the eight-year election? If the seukid seat of the prosecution, what is the essential problem with this deputy public prosecutor being a deputy in another place? Maybe someone will say, as the finance minister practices it, it's huge expenditures. They are not, gentlemen, in relation to the consequences and the tragedy that has hit Serbia. It's a negligible expense. There's a small number of people who would possibly be going from one place to another to additionally burden the budget. What needs to be done is that in the part of prevention of crime, there is a maximum of concessions from the legislative body, or us sitting in this congregation, so that these people are somehow provided and able to carry out their work uninterruptedly. Most in this congregation will help them and the public prosecutors most if you stop hanging out with criminals and use what was a profitable commodity sold by criminals. It would be the best and the greatest help and that would be their safety. This is only a sort of help from this congregation. You can complain, you can yell, it's all recorded, there's tapes. The Deputy Prime Minister said last night, he didn't name, but there will be names. Just take it easy. For you at this point, you who shout, the best and the powder used, because it is also a product of chemistry. (President: 5 minutes and the subject, please. Here, four minis and 11 seconds. That is why we, the Serbian Radicals, are urging you to accept this amendment, that the public prosecutor's functions continue and if there is an end to the public prosecutor's seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28248	MP Zoran Krasic. You're nice to me, you don't throw anything away, all the beauty of God. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28249	This amendment provides the same status as the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor. What is being prevented is what the proposer wanted, and that is that if the public prosecutor's office is abolished, it is one reason for the deputy public prosecutor to stop his duty. When the proposer proposed this Article 18, he also severely violated the provisions of Article 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and all those provisions referred to by that member. The prosecution also follows the courts by organisation, and in the provisions on the public prosecutor and some analogy concerning the deputy public prosecutor, it indicates that the post can cease under the conditions prescribed for judges. In the case of court indictment, the working relationship and the function of the elected judges that have been suspended cannot cease the office, neither the duty nor the public prosecutor nor his deputy in the event of such a situation being lifted by a public prosecutor. Judging by the degree of crime, according to our territorial organisation of courts and considering that the prosecutions usually follow that organisation, with some minor exceptions, when it comes to smaller places, where in the second place practically the prosecutor's office for several municipalities, we must not come to the situation that the deputy public prosecutor, who, by the logic of things, are qualified to do these jobs, simply lose that function in the event of an administrative measure, of abolishing the public prosecutor's office. With this amendment, we protect this status and act preventively on the deputy public prosecutors. For what? If this provision remains, as proposed by the Government, then it is absolutely uncertain for any candidate who would apply to be the deputy public prosecutor. He knows, according to this bill, that he has such a small level of labour rights, he has a small level of rights that give him a guarantee, which gives him protection of his functions, so this will act detimulatively for those of the profession to report to the competition or advert. Given what the government wants to do with this law, that it appoints deputies, then everything is practically clear to us. That would be -- before the election, a final choice. All it takes is a man to sign a statement that he's willing to be deputy district attorney and the government will finish it nicely. Where there are possibly problems with deputies, especially in some smaller prosecutions, where there is a possibility of rationalisation, one administrative measure removes the prosecution and solves the personnel problems, not only the prosecutions, but the intellectual problems and the whole place are solved. In this way and this amendment, we protect what belongs to the man who performs that function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28250	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28251	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I suggested that you be given in article 19. The bill replaces the word "Government" with the words "competent Committee of the National Assembly". The reasons for this amendment can be seen if the argument submitted by the Government in Article 4 and Article 19 of the amendment of this law is examined. Article 4 The government suggests that the bill provides for an objection to a decision on the distance of the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor to be decided by the government, and Article 19 regulates that the bill provides for the government to decide on a decision by the Republic Public Prosecutor to determine the reason for the termination of office. What's the point? The aim is to place the public prosecutor's office as justice minister. Of course, this is very different from the concept of the Serbian Radical Party programme, because the amendment to this law follows such a concept that the government should not have powers in the public prosecutor's field and that it decides on the opposition of the deputy public prosecutor to the prosecutor's decision, as it should not even appoint public prosecutors. It is true that the public prosecutor's office is a state body, that it is not a judicial body, but neither is it administrative and it is closer to the judicial office than it is to the administrative office, and therefore I think that the Legislative Committee, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or its working bodies should have powers and powers in this area, i.e. in the area of the public prosecutor's office. Only one such body such as the National Assembly would be impartial in choosing public prosecutorial functions, thus preventing a very bad staff policy that is currently in the public prosecutor's office, which is the product of this regime and their inability to appoint those people who respect law and order rather than the will of the regime as public prosecutors. I hope that by accepting this amendment, you will leave to the competent committees of the Serbian Parliament to deal with this work, and that the minister of justice retains that function to provide only the conditions, i.e. material resources for the work of public prosecutors, while the election, appointment, objections, solutions will be in charge of the committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28252	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28253	The government of the Republic of Serbia is the executive body of power and simply there is no case that if a complaint is made about the decision of the Republic Public Prosecutor, the government of the Republic of Serbia decides on the complaint. It is simply impossible and it would be about as if against the decision of the President of the First Municipal Court in Belgrade, which addresses a status issue by one of the judges and even the judicial administration, the opposition would be allowed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's really impossible and I don't know where the idea of proposing something that is not only contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whether it's good or not, but is contrary to the basics of legal theory. This is not defined in theory and something like this does not exist in the legal theory, this kind of interference between the executive authority on the status issue of the holder of a function that is not in the executive government. The deputy attorney general and the executive authority have no contact point. If you'd done something similar with the Republic Public Attorney, I might have figured it out. For what? Because by definition it protects the property of the Republic of Serbia and the question is whether its function is judicial. No, it's much closer to the administrative function, because it represents state, property, etc. Whoever's in the D.A.'s prosecution is prosecuted by perpetrators of criminal acts, submits legal means and seeks to protect constitutionality and legality. There's no room for executive power, in those few words that define everything the prosecution does. That's why this is legally impossible. It is impossible, even if the government were to appoint deputy public prosecutors. I don't know if this is some kind of recklessness, so this could have gone away, but if someone asks a question of the constitutionality of this provision, I almost don't believe there's a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia who wouldn't notice an organic feller in what was proposed. We ask that it be corrected, that it be corrected, and that, as a second-degree body, a quasi-teamed body, the committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is appointed in this situation. Of course, in this way we consistently implement the basic idea of where it belongs to the Republic Public Prosecutor, but there is no mistake, there is no breach of the Constitution. We can interpret these provisions from Articles 102 to 106 anyway, but there is no basis for what the Government proposes, not only in this article, but in the full proposal of this law. This law is not only on some glass feet from the point of view of the specific provisions of the Constitution, but it will be both inapplicable and inapplicable, because I simply don't believe that anyone would accept being a deputy public prosecutor under these conditions, unless as the only criterion and the only motive for its application to the future competition is consistent party discipline and some obedience, and then you know what comes from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28254	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stankovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS on Article 20, I have tabled an amendment proposing that this member be deleted. Since the whole law is related to public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, this amendment is intended practically to correct what many experienced lawyers have pointed to throughout this time and these two days of congregation debates. However, since this did not bring fruit, all arguments that could be heard by colleagues, nor did Justice Minister Vladan Batic or other members of the government accept this, I would like to remind them of the pre-election promises before October 2000, and I will quote only part of the promise of the public prosecutor's office. "The new law will provide for the same system of proposing election and discharge of prosecutors and their deputies as well as for judges, in order to reconfirm their independence and maximum emancipation from now on overemphasis and direct influence of political authorities. Parliamentary control of the prosecution's work will be established, especially when it comes to the persecution of perpetrators of political crimes." This was written by the Democratic Opposition of Serbia two years ago. It wasn't written by the SPS, not by any other opposition party today, but by the DOS. It would be interesting for Mr. Justice to remind himself of what he promised and what they are proposing today with these amendments and additions to the Public Prosecutor's Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28256	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party believes that this amendment improves the text of the law, and on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office today, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have given truly exhaustive analyses and pointed to many illogicalities and irregularities that would arise in the event of the adoption of such a proposal as problems in the public prosecutor's organisation. As for Article 74, which is also covered by the amendment and supplementation proposal in Article 20, the Serbian Radical Party considers that when the conditions for resolution or retirement are met, or the conditions to be resolved by one of the deputy public prosecutors, in that case the National Assembly should be informed, and in no case shall the Government be. Therefore, the Serbian Radical Party believes that these experiments, which are now proposed in many projects, will not face support in practice, so this amendment could only contribute to improving the text of the proposed law. We believe that public prosecutors and deputies should be proposed by the Republic Public Prosecutor, and that they are elected and resolved by the National Assembly, as has been the case so far, and in practice it has proved quite right and it has worked quite well. Making the difference between a public prosecutor and a public prosecutor's deputy is not good, nor is it correct. First of all, the deputy public prosecutors perform all the functions and all the tasks and tasks performed and the public prosecutor. Therefore, why should this difference be in proposal, election, resolution if they are in practice performing the same functions and the same duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28258	A deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28259	In this article of the bill, the Government has well noted that there is one illogicality in the basic text and it is good that it deleted from Article 74 of this word "no objection". This practically meant nothing in that original text, which refers to the completion of the working century or reason for resolution, so it is said "if there is no objection". It is a good thing that it was expelled from Article 74, but it is not a good solution where there is a obligation of the Republic Public Prosecutor to report on the performance of this reason for the termination of the post, alongside the National Assembly, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposer of this law is probably following his basic thought, that the deputy public prosecutor should be appointed by the government, so by the logic of things, he should be informed as the authority he has appointed. We also propose that, in all these amendments, we end up representing the position that deputies should be appointed by the National Assembly, and when these circumstances arise for the termination of office, which is the completion of the working century, the National Assembly should be informed, in order to properly prepare a decision on the termination of functions or resolution, depending on the reasons. This link between the government and the deputy public prosecutor -- I just pointed out an organic lack of this law, and here it is confirmed. You see in the very text - the Republic Public Prosecutor informs the government. When the Republic Public Prosecutor has something to do with the government, he has on those items of the budget he complains about not being resolved and nothing else. There's no possibility of any other communication. This examines the specific function and the decent distance of the prosecution from the executive authority. The prosecution is a specific authority, it is a state body, it has to be on its own, and we need to anticipate mechanisms to preserve that independence, from the security of conditions, through elections, through wages, education and preparation of personnel, common positions in all the prosecutions, so that we don't come into a situation, and I am again potential -- I would very much like today to suggest that deputy public prosecutors be ordered to take over an unfavourable job as they take, neither guilty nor in debt, a great responsibility, to hold some cases in drawers for a few years, until it falls into oblivion, to stop justice. Believe me, it's not pleasant for those people either. There are changes, so after these people are called, they're held accountable, they're placed in places they've never been, they never belonged, and maybe they couldn't do it, and I'm sure they weren't even allowed by their head of municipal or district attorney. Don't let the deputies, who are the miners in that prosecution, do things like this. These provisions of the law themselves create a picture and speak for themselves the place and role of this man who predicates to that function. That's the danger, which is why you can't accept what the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28260	Thank you. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 21 was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28261	We suggested that article 21 be deleted and remain a member of the old law. The explanation is - The High Council of Justice must have the same powers to the public prosecutor's office, so it should remain a solution that the High Council of Justice can give a warning measure when deciding on an objection to a decision which has been found to have grounds for resolution because of the unconscious and unprofessional exercise of office. The public prosecutor's office should have representatives in the High Council of Justice when deciding to dismiss the public prosecutor's office, so the prosecution's representatives should have their man in the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28262	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28263	Article 21 The draft law has two interventions in the provision of Article 75(2) to be deleted, and so far Article 3 becomes Article 2. That is what the SRS has submitted an amendment, with a proposal to be a member of the 21st century. It changes the bill by making it in Article 75. The law was amended in its position 2 which the Government proposed to delete and, in practice, the new position 2 reads: "It can also be done by the competent committee of the National Assembly when it decides on an objection to a decision which found that there are reasons for a resolution because of the unconscious and unprofessional performance of its duties". In order to better understand this, it is also necessary to read Article 1 which says, "Republic public prosecutor may be in the process of resolving for the unwitting or unprofessional performance of the duty to give alerts or measures to be removed from the public prosecutor's office from one month to one year." So it's a temporary measure, which aims to keep the D.A.'s office out of office in some process of determining responsibility, so that it no longer works." In the current law, the 2nd position says - the High Council of Justice can do the same when it resolves the objection. Since we have thrown the High Council of Justice out of this whole process and inserted the committee of the National Assembly, it means that the same rights that the Republic Public Prosecutor has as a first-degree body when he solves the objection has a second-degree body when he settles according to complaints, and we propose that this amendment be adopted, because he makes the continent not only with the amendments, but in general, in this hierarchy and in this relation to the relationship of the republican public prosecutor and the authority above the republican public prosecutor. This authority could not possibly be a Government, nor anyone else, but above all, the National Assembly, if not directly it, then in any case its competent authority, because it is this decent distance guaranteeing the independence of the public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28264	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28265	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 of the proposed law, asking that this member be deleted, because it is indeed contrary to its constitutional provisions, with a legal theory and with all the principles declared, which Mr Batic also presented, on the so-called "Justice Minister". shares judicial, legislative and executive powers. Just to remind you, this Article 22 of the bill should amend Article 77 of the current law by saying, "The public prosecutor and the deputy who wish to cease their duty to submit written requests to the National Assembly, or to the Government." In view of the concept, with what has been proposed so far, in the members so far, the constitutional division of legislative, executive and judicial power is being violated. By erasing this member, we would respect the constitutional provision and give the opportunity to decide on the termination of the mandate, on the resolution of the people from the prosecutor's office, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't talk about it, they were talking about the importance of the district attorney's job and the public prosecutors and their deputies. If you want, as a rule, even more are the deputies of the public prosecutor than the public prosecutors, and why devalue both the choice and the manner in which the deputy attorneys are cleared? So let's not devalue the work of people who work, and we'll devalue them, and we'll bring them up to the level of judges of municipal courts for violations if we adopt the proposals of this law to appoint deputies to the government and also to replace prosecutors to be resolved by the government. Let's not devalue the bearers of these judicial functions so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28266	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 22nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, and joint MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our country's legal system there are three branches of government, these are legislative, executive and judicial authority. The judiciary should be independent, particularly independent of the executive authority. And in its 103rd term, the Constitution defines the public prosecutor's office as an independent state body and you as a member of 22. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. Article 77 of this Law, gives the Government a public prosecutor, i.e. a deputy public prosecutor, a request for termination of office to be submitted to the National Assembly, or to the Government. What we Serbian radicals think is extremely important is that, in any case, executive power should not in any way and should not affect judicial authority. The fact is that there have been major problems, that even a day - today there are major problems in the country's judiciary, but such changes and additions to the Public Prosecutor's Law will not solve this problem. You are only extending your authority to this member and previous members, as well as some of the following members, or you are giving the executive authority something that is essentially not her, nor should it belong to her, especially if we are referring to this member of the Constitution, Article 103, which I have quoted. You can, as is the case in some countries, tie the public prosecutor's office to the executive body of power, but you have to change the constitution to do so. In our prosecutor's office, it wasn't a legal regulation issue, it was mostly in human resources policy, which you DOS are conducting, here, for over two and a half years. That's the point. All these prosecutors and judges you solved, detained, under pressure to resign, you have appointed -- and Milan Sarajlic, and Rade Terzic, whether that was so, and some other judges who are now in this package, back in the month, being replaced, detained and in various ways forced to resign. So, it's not just legal regulation, it's mostly human policy. If you think that these amendments and additions to the Public Prosecutor's Law will solve problems in the judiciary, you're wrong. This will only give some authority to the executive authority, which doesn't really belong to it, nor should they belong to it in any other way. There has been a week since the interior ministry came up with a statement, where orders for the murder of Ivan Stambolic were discovered and were ordered by the public prosecutor's office to listen to Slobodan Milosevic and Mirjana Markovic on the matter. A blue warrant has been issued for Mirjana Markovic, however, yet no one from the prosecutor's office has submitted an official request for the hearing of Slobodan Milosevic in The Hague, who called and said he accepted. Whenever you send a prosecutor to The Hague from here, he will respond to that hearing and say everything he knows. Who's to blame, and what's the issue now? Are you going to regulate that by this law or are you going to make the prosecutors work by changing this law? You're wrong. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28268	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28269	This is an amendment to Article 22. The bill, and this proposed member has several major problems. One is that there is never a rule of law that says, "A public prosecutor and a deputy who wants their duty to stop." There's no such thing as right. There's no such thing as a legal norm. You have to take care of this, because this is still a profession, but this is a trade. Each word has its own weight, logical and grammatical and historical, if you will, so that in this way some wishes are expressed, and the legal norm is never an interpreter of desire. The main point on which this amendment has been submitted concerns the authority which is notified of the submission of a request for termination of its functions. This should by no means be the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the National Assembly. It is sufficient for the request to be sent to the National Assembly, so to the authority that chooses and appoints. It is enough for that authority to apply, because that authority should be informed and it should be determined that a designated person has ceased to serve as a public prosecutor, i.e. the duty of a deputy public prosecutor. The government's inauguration into this business would practically mean, and maybe it's an announcement of some future moves, that over a week, the judges will be required to inform the government that they want to stop their judicial function, which would be extremely unacceptable and unacceptable. Any involvement of the Government or any part of the executive authority in matters reserved by the Constitution and by laws for other branches of government is undoubtedly a sign that it is in the works of dictatorships or that we are on a good path to do so. The dictatorships are forbidden. A dictatorship like the form of a monopoly, a monopoly on life, a monopoly on reason, a thought, is forbidden. If you want this bill to look like something and people who receive a message from a country where the state has given them a place, where the state sees them, as the state sees them, what the state expects them to do, if these are messages sent by this bill, believe that even those provisions on minimum years of employment will not be good and will not be enough, because no one will ever want to deal with this job under these conditions and with such mistreatment. The drone of dignity that exists in every man doesn't allow in this way, not only this member, but this whole idea, which is called the Law on Public Prosecutor's Law, to devalue the profession and function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28270	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28271	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have asked with my amendment to be a member of 23. He's erasing the bill. The old solution was much better than the new one, proposed in this article, for the government of the Republic of Serbia to decide on the termination of the public prosecutor's post. The amendment has been made for the reasons why we have not forgotten your promises, which you have made before the elections, and also when you started to exercise power in this assembly, about independent school, secondary and primary education, about university independence, about the independence of courts. There has been a lot of controversy so far whether the prosecution is a judicial authority or an authority of the state administration. Whether or not he is, but in any case, he needs to be independent in his work. Now with this bill of law, we have an example that the government can influence the work of the prosecution. What does it look like in practice? Let's say that some deputy prosecutor initiates the procedure whether they are true states that Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Cedomir Jovanovic was indeed in Šiler and Cedomir Jovanovic at the first session of the government initiating a procedure to resolve such a deputy prosecutor. Isn't that a classic abuse? Only the National Assembly could discuss this so far. Well, even if such a deputy prosecutor is at the mercy of most, there is a public debate, a debate. It is likely that such a prosecutor will address the protection of the opposition MPs. If anything, at least you'd know the real reasons for his shift. The excuse for such a law on public prosecutors, according to the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Vladan Batic, is that this country needs a fight against organised crime, fast and efficient, and that the fight is exclusively in the interests of citizens. I have to say that Mr. Minister shouldn't distract us here or in public appearances, that something is in the interest of the citizens, especially this struggle, because you didn't take her two years ago, but you brought her when your interests against this organized crime were compromised, when those who sponsored you and weighed you began to threaten you, when you began to engage yourself in their affairs, to bestow and order you. That's when organized crime canceled your obedience and what happened happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28272	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28273	Mr. Arsic has given one dimension to this article and this amendment. Amendments require the removal of Article 23. He cited the reasons that motivated him to submit this amendment. To better understand what this is about, Article 23. The bill states that Article 78 is to be amended. In what way? He says this: "The end of the public prosecutor's office is decided by the National Assembly, and the end of the deputy's duties is decided by the Government. The decision to suspend office is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", both of which, depending on that. The existing law means what is practically still in force, the 78th article reads: "The termination of the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office is decided by the National Assembly. To the resolution decision... " (So, that's one reason to stop the function, the resolution. ) "... An appeal to the Constitutional Court is allowed within 15 days of the publication of the decision in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So, by changing the law, this member, the government tells us that there is no legal means against the resolution decision. It's a few steps back from the existing law, and it's not good. The SRS proposes to retain an existing solution, in which against the National Assembly's decision to resolve prosecutors or his deputy, there is an opportunity to exercise some right in court proceedings and that the competent authority be the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia; it is also responsible for, widely written, electoral disputes there, and this is about one kind of electoral dispute. But I must inform all MPs that this Constitutional Court decision too would have a limited range, because there is no practical possibility of returning to office, but only to realize that some right has been violated and that the condition of the injured personal rights is established, possibly and the right to compensation for damages, but hardly that someone could change the individual decision of the National Assembly. That's why this solution that exists in the law is good, and the government shouldn't touch it, because this change tells us that it can do anything and anything in the prosecution and that there is no form of protection of functions; the duties, dignity and personal rights of the people who perform these functions. The National Assembly must imagine this and be focused on seeing which way we are going, where the Government is taking us, if it is not possible for the next change - that the Government is deciding on the status issues of the MPs, that perhaps at some future stage the Government is making decisions on behalf of the Constitutional Court; what is next, which is harder what it can be to draw attention to us that this government is a destruction government, because only one who is being managed by destruction and in power wants to be, just as the opposition could suggest this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28274	Since none of the authorised representatives are answering for a word anymore, we are moving on to the next amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Momir Radoicic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, in the name of the applicants, Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28275	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I understand the anxiety, but we voted to work until 20.00 hours and then I ask that the right we sought and used. To be effective, we extended our work to bring these important laws on time. Momir Radoičić and my smallness on behalf of the SPS have submitted an amendment to Article 23, which proposes to amend Article 78. The proposed solution by the applicant. The government reads: "The end of the public prosecutor's office is decided by the National Assembly, and the resignation of the deputy is decided by the Government. The decision to suspend office is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We propose that Article 23 be amended and read as follows: "Article 78 is amended and it is said: The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decides to suspend the duties of the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor, and a decision on the resolution within 15 days of the date of publication is allowed to appeal to the Constitutional Court." The explanation -- that the National Assembly decides on the election of a public prosecutor and deputy prosecutor, should also make decisions on the termination of both the public prosecutor and the deputy public prosecutor. In our concept, we suggested that this should be evened out. Our main observation is that, even when the prosecutor's law on prosecutors was passed earlier, the prosecutors and the deputies were completely equal, in fact the biggest, "roaring" job in this part was worn by the deputy prosecutors, and the prosecutors were also more political in this part than they were in a clean trade, or profession. Unfortunately, that's right. As these changes are predicted to be appointed by the Government and not elected by the Assembly, this amendment should rather be accepted, besides other amendments, and earlier solutions should be kept, which I think are better quality; they are given an explanation on this subject, but I do not want to repeat them. I just want to remind you of that. I don't think there's any good reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28276	Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicants of this amendment are not present. Are any of the authorized representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28277	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. The judicial function is one of the most important social functions of the state and has a central place in every political system. Through the judicial system of states, it implements the principle of constitutionality and legality as a fundamental element of the overall political system. The essential character of the individual forms of the political system is simply reflected in the role and importance of the judicial institutions and their actions. The public prosecutor's office has a certain degree of independence, although the state's law enforcement policy is being implemented through it, an ex ante assessment of the real social danger posed by individual crimes is overseeing the work of the authorities of the detection and detention of suspects. Ladies and gentlemen, you seem to have come to power yesterday, and I must point out that in all your discussions you want to show it, because you do not want to show that you are the bearers of power in Serbia for three years. In this time you only knew how to criticize, and now you've come to space when you have to show what you've done and you're actually showing extraordinary measures. In the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, the National Assembly decides on the termination of the public prosecutor's office and the deputy public prosecutor's office. A constitutional court appeal has been allowed to decide on a resolution within 15 days of the publication of the decision in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, if the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 23 is accepted, it is necessary to delete Article 79(2). (changed in Article 24) the words "government" because, in our opinion, the Government should not have the authority to appoint, nor to resolve the public prosecutor's office. Because there is no big difference between public prosecutors and public prosecutors' deputies, especially since the deputy public prosecutors are the ones who are operating in public prosecutor's jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, I think in this time of day we often hear how individuals in this government are able to criticise or to give pucks to individuals; in fact, I would refer to Dragan Vesenov's presentation. Believe me, he's done so many diversions for us in Serbia in these three years because he's imported over 30,000 tons of artificial fertilizer, less quality (8h8h8). Believe me, he's done so many crimes that he really should be discussed by this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28278	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28279	This amendment removes, among other things, one fundamental error left behind after this intervention. Apparently, the promoter had a mechanical intention to write "government" next to the National Assembly and account for the way he finished the job. In front of the word "Government" there are words, as well as behind the word "Government," and yet no case has been recorded that the government is discharges based on an act called a decision, but it is always a solution. These mechanical listings and insertions into the existing standard of certain words, without seeing the meaning of the one in front and behind, seem rather tragic. Practically, the government will do something that's impossible and that she's never done before. She has never resolved not only the deputy public prosecutor, but neither the deputy minister nor the assistant minister nor any official from the executive authority. In this way, I get the impression that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as a proponent of this law, treats the deputy public prosecutor as a government official, as a man who works in the authority of the state administration, which is not, nor can. This amendment, apart from following the basic idea of the place and the role of the public prosecutor, removes and, I must say, a legal - technical disgrace that should not survive in the bill. Let us be aware: tomorrow, what we are doing today will be some history, and the day after tomorrow, it will be about what someone is writing today and it will be about stenography; for ancient history there are some others, usually they are already in museums. They're already published books. There are many books with many examples of legal nebulous things that have been happening for the past two or three years. That's not the subject of this amendment. So, by accepting this amendment, we are removing this failure that I don't know how it happened; if this legislative service were a little better, it shouldn't have put this standard into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28280	Are any of the other authorised promoters answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28281	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25 to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which I propose that it reads: "The Deputy Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutors elected under the Law on Public Prosecutors" ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 43/91 and 71/92) which are not elected under the provisions of this law until 1 September 2003 shall have rights based on work belonging to the elected person upon termination of office." The proposed solutions in the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office of 2001 envisioned the appointment of a deputy public prosecutor, which was converted to the election of deputies by the same procedure as public prosecutors. Also, at the proposal of the High Council of Justice, they are elected by the National Assembly. However, in the transitional and final provisions of Article 93, a provision on the appointment of deputies remains with a set deadline, confirming the integrated text of Article 93 of the current law, which says: "Deputies of public prosecutors elected under the Public Prosecutor's Law ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia"), no. 43/91 and 71/92), which are not appointed until 28 February 2003, have rights based on work belonging to the person who has been placed at the end of the post." Consistently, the concept that public prosecutors' deputies should also be elected, not appointed persons, is proposed by the amendment that public prosecutors' deputies should have labour-based rights at the end of office, as well as other elected persons. So, the essence of our amendment is that the deputy public prosecutors have labour rights, which belong to the elected person, and not to the appointed person after the term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28282	Thank you. Are any of the authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28283	Just one brief note to illustrate the absurdity of the situation involving public prosecutors and the election of public prosecutors, when the Law on Public Prosecutors and Amendments and the 2002 Law on Public Prosecutors was passed. Namely, I must read Article 56 of the current text of the law, which specifies the choice of public prosecutor, which says that the public prosecutor and deputy public prosecutor are elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. I'm reading the current text of the law. In Article 56, it is literally potential, crystal clear, that the public prosecutor and deputy elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the High Council of Justice. So, under the provisions of the law on amendments and additions to the law since 2002. However, the proponent of these amendments and the addition of the laws did not find it appropriate to check the situation in transitional and final provisions, so in the provisions of Article 93, which regulate transitional and final provisions, the fact that deputies and public prosecutors are being chosen on a proposal from the High Council of Justice is being ignored. There is a solution left to the situation, which says deputy public prosecutors can be appointed. It's a legal indetermination and we have seen in these proposed amendments and additions to the law a mistake that has been subdued, which has gone undetected. With this in mind, and in line with our determination that indeed the status of public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors is regulated in the same way, we have reacted in accordance with the proposed solutions in the 2001 Law on Public Prosecutors and with our definitions and views from that period, when the appointment of the deputy public prosecutor was scheduled, which has been converted into the election of deputies by the same procedure as the public prosecutors, i.e. on the proposal of the High Council of Justice, by the National Assembly. Therefore, in the transitional and final provisions of Article 93, the other provisions on the appointment of deputies have been laid down with the deadline set. Consistently to the concept that the deputy public prosecutors should also be elected, and not appointed persons, we have proposed that the error be corrected, and I think that it is in line with the applicable provisions of the Law and the regulation of legal text that one text of the law that is serious and that any errors that existed in this legal text, documents. For this reason, and in accordance with our orders on the equal position of prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors, I hope you will have an understanding of our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28284	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28285	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 26. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors states: "This law comes into force the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. "The amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party to Article 26 is to amend and read: "This law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the official messenger of the Republic of Serbia. "The amendment proposes this above all because of the fact that it is Article 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for a precise deadline in which a certain law should enter into force, and there are no particularly justified reasons for it to enter into force earlier. If you look at page 110. The Constitution, where the guarantee of constitutionality is defined, namely under the heading Constitution and legality, is defined by Article 120, and it says that the law, second regulation or general act enters into force on the eighth day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons (I underline and stress - particularly justified reasons), it is not intended to enter into force earlier. Indeed, neither the minister nor the government has defined the reasons why this law should take effect before the time comes. I know the DOS government tried, and it's still trying to change the Constitution in an illegal and illegal way, and we know that it's defined by the Constitution that the two-thirds majority is changing the constitution. However, they are trying to change the constitution by simple majority of 126 MPs. The fact is that many times so far, and probably in the future, they will have broken certain provisions and members of the Constitution, but it has not been defined now, which is why it is justified that this law enters before time. First of all, if it is urgent, despite what you have decided to be an overwork today, I do not see it by the number of DOS MPs, and also by the presence of some responsible persons who are to be present here in the Assembly in order for this law to be passed. I would like Mr Batic's Justice Minister to hear what it is necessary for the law to come into force the day after the adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28286	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28287	With this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party suspects that there are particularly justified reasons why the law would enter into force the next day of publication if adopted. We believe that these reasons, and especially justifiable, do not exist. He also explained it in words -- for the sake of more effective work of the public prosecutor's office to combat organised crime. However, the first law we discussed today referred to the organisation and jurisdiction of the special authorities for the control of organised crime, so that the prosecution does not have any particularly touching points with regard to the law on organised crime. Here you have cited another reason - in the conditions of the threatened security of the Republic of Serbia. The security of the Republic of Serbia has been compromised long ago. There's been a threat to narrow territory, and let's not talk about all forms of endangerment. You know for a fact that at the end of 2000 we had armed conflicts in the space of three municipalities in southern Serbia and then no state of emergency was introduced in the Republic of Serbia. It was also a security threat, but it was no obstacle that all the laws of 2001 practically take effect on the eighth day of publication. However, the state of emergency has now been declared unconstitutional in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, which by law could not have happened, but not to enter the topic. We estimate that the security of the Republic of Serbia is no less threatened than it was a month and a half ago, two months ago, and a year ago, and there is no reasonable reason for the early entry into force of this law, and according to the provisions that we have commented today and requested to change, I am under the impression that this law is already being applied. It is applied in a very specific way. The adoption of this law should practically only legalize a situation that is in the making, so it is likely that something is happening to the deputy public prosecutors. When I say amnesty, I don't mean the ones you arrested and arrested. There's probably some basis for that and where you're lucky you've arrested them more in the last two years. I'm sure we'd be much better off in the D.A.'s office and courts. We warned you in time. So there is no particularly justified reason why this law would have to take effect the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", because the state of security has been unchanged for two or three years. There's no such thing as a particular threat. As far as organized crime is concerned, he was at a high level a few days ago, and now he's... (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: Organized, and no longer. He complains there's something wrong. I said it's not hard for a woman to help. Everything's spotless with me, I just said, don't call an ambulance. So there's no such thing as a threat. As you can see, there's no help, what to do. There are no legitimate reasons. The law should come into force under that regular procedure. Organized crime is likely to be contained, since only government cleaners have not yet informed the public who was arrested.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28288	Is anyone else picking up? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We will decide on this bill in voting day. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and supplements of the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (single) you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Stefanović, Zoran Krasic, Milovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić, Petar Jojić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Stevan Kesejić, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Ljubojević, Lazar Marjanski, Branislav Blažić, Dragan Pavlovic, Veroljub Arsic, Ljubomir Kragović, Srboljub Živanovic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vitomir Plužarević, Dragan Čolić, Slobodan Janjic, Joca Arsić, Milan Janković, Slobodan Tomović, Golub Rajić, together Đordje Mamula, Petar Cvetković, Dragan Jovčić and Dusan Budišin and together Olgica Kirjanski, Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatović, Dragar Vatović and Dragan Slavic. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Legislative Committee rejected: - the amendment to add a new article 9v, which was submitted after Article 9b, by MP Branislav Blažic; - the amendment to add a new article 9v, submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic after Article 9b; - the amendment to add a new article 9d, which was submitted by MP Branislav Blažic; - the amendment to add a new member of 9d, who submitted a new member of the Parliament of 9d. Discarded amendments, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly cannot be discussed at the National Assembly session. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search, under which this bill has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28289	I'd like you to pay attention to Articles 137 and 141. Rules of Procedure. Article 137. The Rules of Procedure indicate that the discussion of the details is carried out by the members to whom the amendments have been tabled and the amendments proposed and the introduction of new provisions. All these amendments that you have just discussed, which have been rejected and are not subject to today's debate, are these amendments and are covered by Article 137. I would ask you to look at the stenogram of today's first item of the agenda -- in a similar way came Article 4a of the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime. It's also a brand-new member. It does not cover existing or proposed changes, but a completely new intervention. These members you have read concern a termological alignment of the SRJ concept with the emerging state community situation. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's necessary for this to go to the Committee, it's better to accept that we're talking about it, because the most useful thing will be the legislator, the one who suggested that it should change, because in this way it gets a little more quality text, and these amendments don't come into the essence of the solution, but only practically points to the government in which direction it was meant to intervene with the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28290	I have no authority to influence the work of the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee has decided, in accordance with Articles 142, paragraphs 4 and 5. Paragraph 5 shows that rejected amendments cannot be discussed at a session of the National Assembly. If you are dissatisfied with the answer, the Administrative Board will respond to your comments. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Please, the word has been made by MP Dusan Budishin, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia felt that Article 1. The bill needs to be deleted. The reasons are the following - the explanation sounds like an inexplicable excuse for the proposed amendment, because it says: "This is for reasons of Celebrities and social justification given the moment in which the existing law is being amended". If we look at it that way, it should be said that in parallel legislation, the term "basic criminal law" is exceptional and applies only in those countries that have more criminal laws. For example, if there were military, international, etc. besides the general criminal law, it would make sense, and it doesn't. And in countries that have multiple criminal laws, this name is not used. Like, that's the case in Germany. In our case, 50 years ago, the term "criminal law" was common and used, noting that similar was still in the last century, when the first law was passed in the modern history of 1860, which was called the Penal Code and later, in 1929, the Criminal Law. Changing the name of the law would only be justified when another orientation or new direction is expressed in the policy of countering the crime that is legally taken in relation to the existing one, or when it is intended to express some other logic of the law. That's not the case here. The example reveals all the senselessness and non-systemicity of the proposed change. The proposed change could only make sense as part of the system of changing the overall criminal legislation in our country, not just the Criminal Code. For these reasons, the Democratic Party of Serbia proposes that Article 1 of the proposed law be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28292	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from Justice Minister Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28293	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was saying that we have a complete codification of criminal legislation ahead. This provision has only been put in place for reasons that we could make some difference between what was so far called the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Criminal Law and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, you know that the Constitutional Charter stipulates that what does not remain in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro is becoming the jurisdiction of the Member States, in this case in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. I'm afraid this way we'd have one notional and logical dilemma that's criminal law -- whether one or the other. That is why we have defined that in this interregnum, until the codification of criminal law is made, the current Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is called the Basic, because it contains some provisions that could be logically called basic, and on the other hand we have the existing Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the government is concerned, I think that, in all respects of what the MP Mr Krasic said, that for reasons of integrity and legal and technical order, it could be accepted to delete those provisions that mention the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, because it is defacto gone. We have general, not only when it comes to criminal legislation, the problem of taking the provisions of the laws that were in the jurisdiction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It may be an adequate solution to pass an omnibus law that would bring the full legislation from the federal level to the level of the Republic of Serbia at least termologically, if not contentally, to be harmonised. I think the Justice Committee could accept this idea and this initiative, if not as something else, then as a legal-technical editorial of the text. As for the substance part of the amendment, the government accepts only the amendment of MP Aleksandar Stefanovic to Article 17, which practically introduces a new crime, which is possession of intoxicating drugs. In addition to those placing on the market, allowing for enjoyment and only possession should be sanctioned for the reasons that internal affairs authorities have had the problem for years to prove what possession is and what the intention is to put on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28294	Thank you. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28295	It is an amendment to Article 1. The bill, which practically determines the name of this law and, as old Pasic would say, and Budisin is right, and the minister is right, and I am probably right, but a weak vision of what we are all right. We are facing codification and unification of our regulations, in criminal matter in particular; I say it is coming, I think that you could now do something by the system of a single regulation, even if those general provisions of federal criminal law and what are protected goods, groups of protected works; it could have been done, and it was not some big problem. But I think after this, we're going to have an even bigger problem, and that's why -- we're practically SRJ's Criminal Law, which is a general part of material criminal law, with several other groups of very specific crimes against the military, security, international law, humanity, and not to spread, maybe there are two or three more heads, what was common and of particular and common interest to the former SFRY, etc. I think that now calling it basic law can also be a mistake, as if it were now called -- SRJ criminal law, the exact same mistake. The Constitutional Charter, I know that you have animosity to this Charter, as most of us simply do not have a good document, at the very least, that we are not going into politics, but it points out that the Republic of Serbia is applying federal regulations as such, except for those provisions which are obviously contrary to the Constitutional Charter, and the Republic of Serbia is obliged to put them out of force, that is one variant. Second, to match them, prepare them, adapt them. But he also has to get the termological name of the law. That is why our amendment was that, in addition to this -- the basic criminal law, stands still -- the Republic of Serbia, for this complex of federal ones, and for this -- the Blood Law of the Republic of Serbia, and that would be one temporary continent of criminal law, a material part that would be applied. I also get the impression that the name - the basic law, the basic criminal law, could also create a confusion in practice, especially with some judges who would rather wander, and as far as Mr Batic is concerned, the questions of agreeing on the terms, in many parts of the threat of security, it is not only a problem to agree on a term, or simply replace, where the SRJ writes to put it - the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because in the description, in the essential elements of a criminal act from that head, somewhere the perpetrator is defined as a citizen of the SRJ; somewhere the good integrity of the SRJ is protected, and in some provisions for some crimes, where SRJ is protected, the perpetrator is defined as a foreigner, each person. It would be rather confusing for judges, when they apply this head of the Criminal Code, to define both what is protected good and who is a possible perpetrator, because there we have finished crimes and criminal acts of preparation, organization, and even attempts. There'll be a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28296	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28297	On behalf of the government, I can accept this amendment, to add to the title - the basic criminal law of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28298	The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. We've already discussed this, I'm sorry. ) We discussed the amendment to the 1st parliamentary group of DSS, so MP Zoran Krasic reported on the amendment, and talked about his amendment, also on Article 1, and the minister accepted the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic. However, we must vote, but I find that the minister, i.e. the government has accepted the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Because of the Committee's opinion, we must vote on this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment were submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic, and joint MPs Djordja Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? There is a word from MP George Mamula, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28299	Since it's 18.50 hours, first of all, to thank you all for still being here. In light of this comparison of the law, and Article 2 is of general character, it is said that there has been an increase in the number of executions of certain crimes and that it is necessary to tighten the criminal provisions for those acts, in order to prevent the increase in criminality. First of all, there was no increase in crime. According to the MUP reports, there has been a general decline in crime, so I don't know how Mr. Justice says there has been an increase in certain crimes; he may have some other report, but according to what we've been getting from the MUP, there's been a sensitive fall, even more serious crimes. On the other hand, Article 2 refers to the applicability of a milder law, so it is not clear if there has been an increase in the execution of criminal acts, what is the causal link of Article 2 relating to the applicability of a milder law with an increase in criminal offences and the need to tighten criminal policy? I'm a member of 2. It doesn't make much sense, and, practically, in attitude 2, what is proposed in point 3 is already regulated, so what is already contained in the law is proposed here. It is likely that, in the desire to improve the law, the proposal has already been proposed, so this is completely unnecessary and it would not be good to enter the law, not to be a wonder for the world, for the memory of gender. Therefore, Article 2 is already foreseen to apply a softer law. That is why I believe that the minister of justice should consider this well before putting this to the vote, because it is clear that at a time when the death penalty was applied 20 years in prison, and that the abolition of the death penalty follows a 40-year sentence, so that this should not be found in law, since there is no such solution in any country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28300	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28301	In the light of the draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code of the SRJ, Article 2 is referred to as follows - the bill is complemented by provisions relating to the mandatory application of a mild criminal law for offences for which the death penalty has been prescribed. The previous law, which now proposes amendments, leaves two positions, which reads: "The perpetrator of the crime is subject to the law which was in force at the time of the offence", and that is the rule. Item 2: "If the law has been amended once or twice after the offence has been carried out, the law which is milder for the perpetrator will be applied." It's an imperative, binding provision for every special case, for a judge who judges the perpetrator for a certain crime, regardless of the expended sentence. You propose Article 3 of this bill, which reads: "If, at the time of the execution of the crime, the death penalty has been prescribed for that crime, the perpetrator of the crime may be sentenced to 40 years". What's the problem? The problem is that it's in article 21. The 1992 SRJ constitution, paragraph 2, was foreseen that the death penalty could not be foreseen for crimes prescribed by federal law. Meanwhile, there has been an amendment to the Criminal Law of the SRJ, where there has been an agreement with the provision of Article 2. The constitution of the SRJ, so there was no death penalty for the crime committed. Even if there was no change in the Criminal Code of the SRJ, a lower legal act, in the event that it is contrary to the higher one, and here it is the highest legal act in the SRJ at that time, which obliges the lower legal acts to comply with this provision on the intended sentence of prison, or death sentences, so that we now have a situation where you are calling for a death penalty, or a regulation that allows the death penalty, and that it has been abolished. That's why attitude 3 is meaningless and groundless. Even in the event that you, Mr Batic, are right, as in the light of this bill you are giving to ease the penalty for certain crimes, you, on this small door, since there was no death penalty, introduce the death penalty. How? In practice, there can be collation, the opposite of attitudes 2 and 3. Article 2 is imperative, binding on the judge, and Section 3, which you propose through these changes, says that instead of a death sentence for a crime at the time of his execution, a prison sentence of 40 years may be imposed. So, the court gets a subsidiary character, it can, and it remains a rule to impose a death penalty that would neither under the Constitution of the SRJ which was in force at the time of the execution of the crime, no matter what crime it is, nor by the criminal law of the SRJ that is now being changed, the death penalty provided, or the death penalty abolished. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you should pay a little attention to this moment, because it is truly purely legal logic, where it compares what you have proposed by the bill to what is under the obligation of this law, to observe the Constitution of the SRJ and the Criminal Law of the SRJ, which has so far been in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28302	The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28303	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, should not have unnecessary theoretical debates about things that are quite simple. So the SRJ Criminal Law envisioned a series of criminal sanctions. The SRJ's criminal code, until its changes, prescribed the death penalty among the types of criminal sanctions. The fact is, SRJ's Criminal Law has been in collegiate with the SRJ Constitution for some time, which did not predict the death penalty. This was the reason why some judicial judgments were not carried out that imposed the death penalty. The fact is that SRJ's Criminal Law envisioned the death penalty, as well as that the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia provided for certain crimes as a penalty for the death penalty. Both the SRJ Criminal Law and the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia have been amended so much that there is no more death penalty, in line with some European standards which, as a country that has proposed to join the Council of Europe and other European integration, it has accepted. What's this about? It is simply a desire to avoid arbitration, to avoid the volunteering of courts when they decide what kind of punishment they will impose for those crimes for which the death penalty was intended at the time of their execution. I'm talking extremely simple, so that people who aren't lawyers can understand what this is all about. So, for such crimes, which are, for example, the Ibar Highway, the Strpci case, the murder of Ivan Stambolic, will be punished in prison of 40 years or that time sentence that was maximum at that time, which is 15 years in prison when it comes to the time sentence, or compensation of the death penalty, where it could have been 20 years. So we had a specific case in practice -- trial in the Ibar Highway case. There's a busy view that it can be the maximum time limit provided for by earlier law, which means 15 years. That's where the lawyer's opinions and the judge split. We have the position of the Criminal Department of the Supreme Court of Serbia, whose legal interpretation is that the lesser law for perpetrators is a 40-year sentence, because every time sentence is considered to be less than a death sentence, even a sentence, I speak hypothetically, of 100 years in prison, than 200 years in prison. So, it's a record from a session of the Supreme Court Penitentiary, held on 27.3.2002. To avoid any volunteerism, even this congregation could give authentic interpretation of this law. This could be raised to the level of a general session of the Supreme Court, but we felt that it was celibate, that it would not again be a matter of interpretation and controversy in the public, to introduce this provision, saying, "If, at the time of the crime, the death penalty was prescribed for that crime, a criminal offence could be punished for 40 years". That's the reason he led us, so that the judges, the council, wouldn't take this position or that kind of attitude, that it would be clearly and clearly written in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28304	Is there more applications for this amendment? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28305	Ladies and gentlemen, a very discussional subject, but we have to agree with one fact - that the adoption of amendments to the Criminal Law at a time of emergency is absolutely not a good thing; it is our general position, and it will remain in the stenogram and we defend that attitude. The second thing, the intended solutions in Article 2 that... Unfortunately, Mr. Batic, we socialists do not view criminal law from the point of view of daily politics. This should be seen a little deeper so that the provisions of the Criminal Law, bound or regulated by constitutional provisions, would not happen tomorrow, are changed again in line with the needs of some political parties. So if you ask me what my party president's name is, I'll be happy to answer you on any television and anywhere you want, and if you want me to tell you now, go out for a pay phone and ask me. You, Madam President, I warn you to put the situation in order in the O.R....
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28306	You cannot warn me, People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28307	... to allow me normal conditions for continuing exposure. I'm sorry the minister left the O.R., but I have a few words to say. The provisions of the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in Article 4 concern the application of a milder law to perpetrators of a criminal offence; therefore, I must read Article 4 of the 1st and 2nd, which are absolutely clear and there is no need to, and we have already mentioned that this is due to certain, possibly, the conduct of certain criminal acts, adds Article 3 which adds additional confusion. Therefore, Article 4(1) states: "The perpetrator of a criminal offence is subject to a law which was applicable at the time of the execution of the crime". There is a clear point: the law that was in force at that time, when the crime was committed, applies. Article 2 is specified - if the law has been amended once or twice after the offence has been carried out, the law that is milder for the perpetrator will be applied; and that is the matter clearly. We now have the situation that amendments to the Criminal Code of Yugoslavia since 1993 have abolished the death penalty for all crimes, its regulation by federal laws has been prohibited, however, replaced by a 20-year sentence. Adding a provision allowing judges to impose a sentence of 40 years in exchange for the death penalty does not comply with Article 4(2) and the principle that a criminal offence is subject to a minor law, provided that the criminal law has been amended once or more after the execution of the criminal offence, because the lesser law regulates a 20-year prison sentence as a substitute for the death penalty. We do not need to be distracted by the mind that we of the SPS believe that perpetrators of a crime should be held accountable for their actions, but in this way, in such a voluntary way to amend the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, especially given that the state of emergency is under way, especially given that this criminal law will have to be modified within a very short period of time, we think it is non-discriminatory. The provision of Section 3 - if, at the time of the execution of the offence, the death penalty is prescribed, the perpetrator of the crime may be sentenced to prison for 40 years - it is inadmissible and will create additional legal galatis in the area of criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28308	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28309	Mr Batic has now denied us the opportunity to speak in principle, he has gone, about the problem initiated by this Article 2. It's a bill of law. He cited some examples, we can say, we do some of these jobs, we do more of the same things, but the basic motive for which Mr Radovanovic submitted on behalf of the SRS this amendment comes down to this new position of Article 4 of this new article, which is practically the proposal to define how much more favourable the law is. That's forbidden. So, the existing Article 4 contains something that is the principle of the bourgeois revolution; it is the principle of legality, the principle of applying a more favourable law by a punished person, by the perpetrator of a particular piece, regardless of when the act is done. If the crime was committed five years ago, the criminal law that was in force at the time is applied, because the basic request for a crime is that it is as prescribed by law and that it is a criminal act. If later changes are more favourable, and there is no condemning judicial verdict, then when sentence is imposed, it means setting the measure, it benefits what is more favourable for the accused, or for the convicted. It's a principle. Now in this way we practically say what the dimensions of this principle are, so now we say - if the death penalty was prescribed at the time of the execution of the crime. Now that the law has changed in the meantime, so there is no death penalty, we need to define how much more favourable it is and how much more favourable it can be than what is already written in the law. We can't do that. St. 1 and 2 of Articles 4 of the Federal Criminal Code do not allow the position 3 proposed. He's in college, and it's impossible to write something like that. If someone didn't get it wrong, this was a purely principled discussion, but if I were to call on the argument Mr Batic made, then I could point out even more drastic examples, real crimes. There are real crimes, only those who don't want to see, they don't see it, and I can't help it. We also had a problem when we adopted the federal constitution that we had people waiting for the death penalty. I think that Vuckovic of Leskovec has been waiting for it for 20 years, too, he killed some public prosecutors there in Leskovec; there were probably 17 or 18 people who had a strong verdict, but no one had the courage to do it. Why? The constitution was changed, the death penalty was lifted, and the constitution, as the highest legal act with which all acts must be in agreement, was devalued by federal and republican law in the part where the death penalty existed. The tragedy is that Serbia has late changed its criminal law and abolished the death penalty. That's the problem that caused this. If I were to take Mr. Batic's arguments, I could take other examples. Is it possible, on the basis of the replacement of the death penalty at the time of the change in law, that someone may be less punished than those who are expected to be punished for some of the crimes that are being targeted by the public?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28310	Five minutes. Thank you. Is there more applications for this amendment? No, there isn't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment in the same text, the People's MP Vjerica Radeta and the MPs of the people Đorđa Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jočić and Dusan Budishin submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legal possibility. You want a word? Yes, the word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28311	I have proposed to the amendment to delete Article 3. A bill that provides for confiscation of property to the perpetrator of a criminal offence, because the existing law already regulates the possibility of confiscation of everything that has been illegally acquired, and even of what the convicted person, possibly, has transferred to another person by some legal act. The concept of confiscation is not an unknown category in our legislation. He was up-to-date. There was a confiscation in the law until 1990, when Criminal Law SRJ was in line with European legislation. Confiscation was applied until 1953. The property seized in confiscation is, among other things, the property you promised in the election campaign to return to former owners through denationalisation, because you estimated that there was no basis for the owners to be taken away. We of the SRS have no objection to the confiscation of property acquired in the conduct of the crime. On the contrary, we are absolutely for the application of members of 84th and 85th of the existing Criminal Law of the SRJ. You've already had the opportunity to apply this measure, and why not, it's a matter of judicial authorities. According to existing legislation, it is possible to confiscate property benefits, but it is important that it is only the property that has been obtained by criminal acts. What is proposed today implies the seizure of the property acquired legally. What does it mean if someone who committed a serious crime for which it is meant to take away property has, say, the property he acquired 10 years ago with inheritance, and the criminal is from two years ago? According to this proposal, such property should be subtracted. I don't think that's right, and above all, it doesn't comply with European legislation. The existing solution is in accordance with the Convention on Money Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of the property benefit obtained by criminal acts. This Convention only provides for the confiscation of financial resources or the property benefit obtained by the execution of a criminal offence. Article 16 of this Convention provides that the property benefit must not exceed the amount of benefit obtained by criminal acts. This Convention was adopted on 8 November 1990 and was subsequently brought into line with the Convention, adopted by all member states of the Council of Europe. The government's proposal states that confiscation of property can be pronounced as a secondary penalty. I don't think it can stand that the penalty of confiscation of property can be imposed... (President: 5 minutes. )......................................................................................................... It's got to be said already. Giving judges the opportunity to judge whether or not they will give such a punishment can certainly lead to abuse. What if another brother of Rade Trajkovic shows up to you, this Judge Vujačić, who was the newspaper about these days. We must not leave such a possibility to the judges, but rather in the exclusive jurisdiction of the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28312	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Dusan Budishin, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28313	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the DSS has requested that a member of the bill be deleted. Namely, confiscation of property, we have to remind, it doesn't exist for 13 years, it's been abolished. Besides being gone and not having to have it, she's a very awkward memory. We haven't even returned (and there's a lady who spoke completely right before me) kidnapped and robbed property, and we're already reaching for a new confiscation. But let's leave it. Just to talk like lawyers. This isn't good. Here's why. The confiscation of property is primarily unfair and unnecessary. Why unfair? It's unfair because she, and that bill doesn't explain it, doesn't lead to a connection to a crime and a person convicted. The second thing is to bear in mind that confiscation, unlike fines, is a real right; bond law is a fine. So these are two special visions. There's something else to say. The ink on the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, issued on February 26th of this year, has not yet dried up, and we are reaching for something that has no justification or justification, and it is not fair. Legally - technically, there was a moment in time, every skilled judge in the verdict would take that unwarranted property advantage, and should take it, but because there are other mechanisms, and not that confiscation affects the third party needlessly. Well, back to that Charter. Article 23 says, "The right to property is guaranteed and the right to inherit." The use of assets can be limited by law, in accordance with the general interest. No one can be deprived of property except in the public interest established under the law, with compensation, etc. So no one can be deprived of property, rights to life, rights to property, freedom. These are basic human rights. We are now going back a few decades, justifying only daily -- political needs. Confiscation isn't personal, it's not personal. The bill of law doesn't even see that connection. That's why it's a form, in fact, of denying the rights of a convicted person who is not personal, but is essentially collective and, as I said earlier, also affects his environment. That's what's wrong. Another reason for the weakness of confiscation is that it is mostly justified by material retribution for the crime committed. This must raise the question of the logic of the parallel existence of confiscation and fines. If property is seized in the form of material revenge for a criminal offence, then why is it provided for and for which the fine is applied. The bill promoter didn't give a logical answer. The most common and serious reason for the existence of confiscation is the need for society to take away the benefit of those who have acquired any property benefit by carrying out certain crimes. However, if we look at the provisions of Articles 84 to 87. The criminal law of Yugoslavia, we see that this purpose is achieved without any difficulty. That's why I just said...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28314	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28315	Mrs. Micic, we have two more amendments. I'm not going out, since they're the same reasons. If you allow me another two or three minutes, I won't go out again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28317	Therefore, the same effect can be achieved by measures of confiscation of property benefit. That's what any judge who knows his job can do, get the same effect without reaching out for measures that hit those who don't need to and shouldn't guess. There's something else to say. The provisions of the Yugoslav Criminal Code fully satisfy the need for those who have acquired the property benefit by executing all kinds of crimes, not just organised crime, to take that benefit away. In all this, the measure of confiscation of property benefits can never suffer such objections as the confiscation of property, since the measure of confiscation of property benefits has elements of confiscation in it. As the government proposes to introduce confiscation, the very way is uncircumcised, insufficient. In our old laws, a procedure was prescribed to confiscate property. This seemed to be the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. There were, however, restrictions aimed at surviving family members and there was an existential minimum under which the property could not be touched. Thus, the confiscation was explicitly prescribed certain criminal acts in our right and yet it was not a general measure for all crimes. Of course, it was forbidden to impose fines with the confiscation of property. Based on the reason, we think that this style is completely unnecessary, and that's why we suggest that Article 3 be deleted as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28318	People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28319	This Member of the bill amends the provision of a law concerning the type of punishment. In addition to prison and fines, confiscation is introduced as a punishment that can only be a side penalty. Of course, later provisions discuss what confiscation means. I don't want to repeat what my predecessors said, but if the proponent's motive was to place the confiscation in this way, even if it may be socially justified that it only binds itself to organized crime and it certainly shares the sympathy of almost everyone in this room. I get the impression that the bill promoter misread and misdefined some concepts in the conventions that were quoted earlier. Namely, there is the word "confiscation" or "abduction" in the function of a termological clarification; I think, first of all, that it is a translation that does not give rise to such intervention and introduce confiscation as secondary penalties. That this is the best testimony to the fact that in 1990 our Criminal Law was changed and that then a member of the 40th that regulated confiscation was then erased, because it was also a condition for our admission to the Council of Europe and European integration. That's when the government did it under that pressure. However, it is fully justified to do so without pressure, for confiscation is a deeply unfair measure, for the simple reason of property, primarily property rights, deeply affecting the right of individual property. It is a material sanction for something that has been done and therefore, for the sake of fundamental justice, a different measure has been established - the confiscation of illegally acquired profits and any benefit through crime. So, not just the objects, but all the increases that came from crime. They may be a little difficult to determine during the proceedings, but it is an appropriate secondary sanction that monitors every crime where material gain occurs as a result, motive and consequence of a particular crime. That's why confiscation, as it is given, even if it is listed as a form of sanctions, can't exist. It can be dangerously abused, it can lead to inconceivable consequences, because taking away property from a man, and that property or the value of that property, the assumed value of something that is the result of a crime, has absolutely nothing to do with a criminal offence, nor with the form of acquisition and creation of that property, it would be practically another crime, only in the form of a judicial verdict. That's why it's been thrown out. Of course, everyone avoids putting confiscation in that context, and when it comes to organised crime, then there is particularly an expression of the provisions on the confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits. If someone wanted to scare someone with confiscation, they didn't scare him, but this is how the law bothers these institutions where we became members.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28320	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28321	The penalty of confiscation was in our criminal law until 1990, when the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia were wiped out of criminal law. And until then, the sentence of confiscation could only be imposed as a secondary measure in the event of the punishment of the perpetrators of the crimes. Also, confiscation as a measure had to be interpreted restrictively. But before I begin to explain what happened in 1990 and explain the conditions in society that preceded the abolition of confiscation as collateral penalties in our right, let me say that confiscation of property in one of these ways, as proposed in this amending law, has been recorded in legal history in so-called. the investigation of criminal proceedings, which characterized many occurrences that were not good and were not really enough to ensure the fair conduct of this criminal proceedings, nor provided basic conditions for respecting those accused, more specifically those who were in the proceedings or those who were put under criminal charge after the conviction. So, as one of the characteristics of this investigation, unlike the accusing or mixed modern criminal proceedings, is the measure of confiscation. At the end of the Middle Ages, therefore in the setting of feudalism, an Italian lawyer named Cesare Bekari wrote a book on crimes and penalties in 1764 that represented a turning point in the then criminal law. It is written as the work of an anonymous author, guess why, and in addition to criticising the basic provisions or basic characteristics of this investigation, it also criticises the register of penalties as a very negative penalty for confiscation of property in such a broad way as is provided for in the proposed text of amendments and addition of the Criminal Law of the SRJ. So the penalty of confiscation must be seen in that light, that it is one of the relics of the past. In 1990, and in our criminal-processing legislation and criminal law, the sentence of confiscation was abolished. And if we look at that one who prepares criminal legislation must have its applicability in mind and the satisfaction of all those criteria that ensure his justice, we must really ask ourselves whether the introduction of confiscation is again, after 13 years of eradicating it from the register of penalties in our criminal law, well, in this way and at this point. I've already mentioned that any changes in criminal law at a time of emergency are not good. Also, one of the more difficult circumstances is that criminal law under the provisions of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter must be codified in one more comprehensive, more comprehensive, more comprehensive, more comprehensive way. Today, we can discuss whether the penalty of confiscation is meaningful or not, but in doing so, we have to be extremely restrictive to interpret what confiscation can mean. Therefore, it is possible to be a proponent of confiscation, but not in such an extent that it implies that the entire property of the person convicted of committing a crime can be confiscated, but only the property acquired by committing criminal acts, by committing acts in an illegal manner. In addition to this legal indulgence towards confiscation which, as I said, has been erased from the register at the end of the Middle Ages, we can accept, only with the restriction to refer to the property acquired by committing a criminal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28322	There are no more applications for discussion on this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MP Milorad Mircic and joint MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that it is the same legal possibility. Does the applicant of the amendment come forward for a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28323	The Serbian Radical Party proposes that Article 4 of the amendment and addition of the Law be deleted. A moment ago, our colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party detailed the reasons why this member should be deleted; not only because of this, the reason is that a new type of punishment is being introduced, which is the confiscation of property. In addition to permanent sentences -- prison and currency -- one side or additional penalty is imposed, as the proposer says, which is the seizure of property. Let's see what is a direct cause for the introduction of this sentence, which in the 1990s was expelled from the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The direct reason is all that's been going on lately. There's no one normal, no one smart enough to condemn the actions that the judiciary needs to take and the sanctions it needs to bring, so that they're properly sanctioned perpetrators of criminal acts. But to introduce an institution of punishment, it's to return it to serve tomorrow as a possible abuse of the law, it's already a sword with two blades. You gentlemen can do that now, you have enough votes, but think about it - when you're an opposition tomorrow, will someone come to power and try to abuse it? Or what is nearer and more attractive to you now - what is the certainty that you will not abuse it? You are these events and cases that have happened lately and how media abuse - you condemn, judge, blame, and not give the right to answer. With such a way of trusting you that when you adopt these amendments and supplement the law, you will not abuse this too? Who did we look up to? We looked up to Italian legislation. It's true, Italy has been facing a mob problem for many years, decades, centuries, there's been a struggle. But how did they do it? They did so by bringing in a sort of back specialis, giving special powers to judicial authorities, public prosecutors -- when property illegally acquired by the mafia is seized, Italians share it with the poor, as presented by Minister Batic. This same model we need to apply, and, gentlemen, we are all aware of the fact that they are not mafia, nor crime so deeply rooted in these areas, as it is in Italy. Here's an even more acceptable example: the crime rate in Montenegro is much higher, the organisation of crime is much higher than it is in Serbia, so they won't introduce it, and they're aware of the facts, when - then they have to go into a tough fight with the mafia. And we, using everything that's happened, are putting in law a new side sentence. Then why do we need a head who's called a coin? If you really think that confiscation of property should be in some way compensation for a certain part of the damage that has been done to individuals or to the state -- what do we need a fine as the main penalty? You need to define yourself somewhere. When you suggest something, take the bills well. We Serbian radicals speak to you of our best intentions. If we're ever talking about something you don't like, don't realize it's personal. And we feel in the same way as you or most of the ruling coalition, that there is a need to fight crime decisively, but don't, gentlemen, resort to this, abusing the emotions of Serbian citizens who are solidarity with you, for one single reason only, give you support to deal with crime; don't put a "little door" on the noose of those same citizens around your neck.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28324	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28325	With this amendment, Mr Mircic is asking to delete this member of the bill, which indicates that confiscation is a secondary penalty. The promoter found an excuse, when he returned 13 years of this sentence, in that it counts that if the measure is applied only to members of organised groups that were created to deal with organised crime, it may be an excuse for confiscation being introduced into our criminal law. Maybe it's not a bad idea, maybe the motives are right, but believe me, the path is wrong. Two years ago, the trip was a one-time extra-profit tax, and of several hundred million or ten million, it turns out 200 and more convictions are waiting in the office, because the Supreme Court has annulled it, and for three months now, no delivery has been made. Simply, the extra profit is gone, he melted down Sava and Morava and went to the Danube to the Black Sea. So he wasn't there. Now it is obvious that everything and everything is presented to organised crime if there are more than three participants in something that may look like an organization, so all those who have built industrial plants in cities, because it is announced that economic crime will be particularly seen after these changes in the law; so we're starting with that confiscation as in 1945. I'll give you an example from 1945, and it'll probably happen in 2003 if it passes a law like this. The man had a shop during the war, she was open, occasionally closed. At the invitation of the horsemen closed, when there were no calls she was open, selling the man, trading, helping the farmers, welcoming the liberators and taking him to the bank building in Nis and saying - he was working with the occupier. They made a solution that he worked all along the war, collaborated with the occupier, and that he gained a war profit of 180,000 dinars at that time, and that's about two houses -- one that his grandfather left for him by his father, and the other one, left for him by his grandfather's mother. He ran out of both houses and no shop and was a protected tenant in his own house. And of course, neither was it returned, the house across the street, his former house bought, the victim of confiscation. Is there an act - there was no act. It is likely now to add up some work to anyone with a wealth of more than 500-600 thousand marks, or 500-600 thousand euros, to apply this side penalty. And that's the danger, that side sentence should hit the family first of all, and maybe that family doesn't even have any touchy points with those jobs that a member of the family who's been punished as a member of the organized group. If we're going according to these most recent examples, just so you know, those top-notch organized crime criminals are all they've acquired, they've prescribed to women, children, fathers, mothers, and there's no such property.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28326	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic and joint MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what does it add after the presentation of MP Zoran Krasic? Zoran Krasic pointed to very important facts and many serious things that await our citizens if such a proposal and such a provision of Article 5 were adopted, which would introduce the confiscation of property. He mentioned Mr Krasic confiscation of property in 1945 and I will mention both in 1948 and 1953, when statistical methods were applied in our country, when the citizens had a mustache, when their country, business space was taken from them, when they were taken from them through confiscation and all agricultural machinery, and even the raves. So the time has not come for us to return to 1945, 1946, 1948 and 1953? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where my predecessors, the honourable Members of the People, spoke of Articles 3 and 5, who are alike, because they refer to the confiscation of property. We're prescribing something that's already been prescribed. Then why would we need the main punishments, if we're introducing here now the confiscation of property, as collateral punishment? I believe that this will not come upon the support of our citizens, will not come upon the support of either the international community, nor the Council of Europe, or the International Court of Strasbourg, because these are rigorous measures, which the citizens did not expect from the democratic authority, that in this way they will reach for such measures, which may question the existence of our citizens, especially those who commit crimes. We Serbian radicals estimate that at this point it was very important to curb organised crime based on the arrest and trial of murderers; murderers should now be tried. It doesn't need to do something that doesn't look like us right now, something that isn't suitable for a democratic state. To judge murderers, murderers to bring them to justice and punish them maximum, and that was a reason to take certain measures against organised crime, but not now to pursue many other issues, which in any case will have consequences for our citizens. I have suggested, ladies and gentlemen, that this member be deleted, because something that is already prescribed and something that can be realised in a judicial, criminal procedure, by seizing illegally acquired property, can be done without such a member, and without such a provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28328	Anybody else answer for a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28329	Since the government has been preparing so seriously to define what a confiscation is, we have had to submit an amendment and ask that this member of the bill be deleted. This is how the Government imagined it to look confiscation - says: "The confiscation of property consists of taking away property from a convicted person, without compensation, within the limits prescribed by law," and these limits currently do not exist, because none of these laws are even prescribed; it will likely be in future amendments to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions, but there will already be a lot of problems defining what it is about the property of a convicted person, how it is taken away, in which substitute, which are the rights of persons who claim that property, trustees' rights, debtors' rights, etc. That, of course, is not what the government is telling us, but it's just announcing what's coming next. The second is said: "The confiscation of property can be pronounced when a criminal offence with organised crime elements has been imposed in prison for at least four years." Under all the rules, which this assembly is likely to adopt in the course of tomorrow, if it is a voting day, the Law on Combating and Combating Organized Crime, on jurisdiction, as it is already called, will lead us to a situation that we can treat every daily paper as an organized group of people, which has been organised to commit crimes, and it does criminal acts of defamation, insults, etc. Unfortunately, this government did not find it appropriate to throw out a verbal delinquent, and we will probably be in those waters for a long time, and the Council of Europe does not know what a verbal delinquent is, in the recommendations it made to throw it out, especially a verbal delicacy where there are some political motives and political elements. It is possible that a newspaper and one editorial office may be an organized criminal group, which would receive a sentence under article 92, for example. Article 3 The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, of some 4.5 years in prison, and the rest of the people without property, not only them, but their family, and what they did -- they published the text, and that is the serious crime they committed. So that there is no doubt, that someone does not think that these amendments protect organised crime - no, these amendments just want us to tell the government and we want to get a voice to the courts, to the prosecution - you're using much more of the institute that already exists in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which is taking away illegally acquired property, and getting everything that can be considered as income based on committing crime. The law allows that possibility if it is proven during the proceedings that someone has stolen, for example. 500,000 euros, the perpetrator, on the basis of a judicial verdict, should also be given the rate of withdrawal of those 500,000 euros, with the corresponding interest and profits, if the time period from the execution of the work to the conviction is taken into account. So, neither the damaged person is damaged, if on the basis of a court ruling, the condition of the court is established. So all the measures and all the instruments exist in the existing law and there's no need to scare a bear with a grate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28330	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28331	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I understand that patience is over. We've come to the end of this extended part of the debate on this law. The SPS parliamentary group has tried to resolve this dilemma of several amendments and several members in a way to specify, to the extent possible, this amendment, with its amendment, to extend the penalty for these acts, in addition to giving time limits, to confiscation of property. The government proposed to Article 5 that a new Article 39a be added after Article 39a, which reads as "the confiscation of assets" and in point 1 suggest that "the confiscation of assets consists of the confiscation of property by a convicted person, without compensation, within the limits of the prescribed law". Point 2: "The confiscation of property can be pronounced when a criminal offence with the element of organised crime has been imposed in prison for at least four years." We propose our amendment to add a new point 3, which reads: "The subject of confiscation can only be property acquired by the execution of the crime. Confiscation is a secondary sentence, as I said, which can only be applied as an additional measure of confiscation of property acquired by the execution of a crime. General confiscation or confiscation of the entire property of the perpetrator may lead to the confiscation of property acquired in a legal manner, and therefore, only the assets acquired by carrying out the offence should be determined as a possible subject of confiscation. This is clearly the article, in addition to knowing that the government is stubborn and that its proposals will not be easy to give up. It has not happened to make this change more significant. So we have made this proposal that in this way, at least partially - I say in part, because in the very argument at point 1 and point 2 it is not sufficiently precise - this amendment specifies that the subject of confiscation can solely be property that was acquired in that part. I think there's one general consensus in the people. The people are irritated by the destruction, although they know that the property has been wrongly acquired and thinks that the property could have been in a better position to confiscate it and to be available as such for some of the other needs it surely has in this country. We think that these solutions are better, that the subject of confiscation is the only property that has been acquired by the criminal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-10-0.u28332	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 81(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine tomorrow (Friday) as a working day. We will continue to discuss this item of the agenda and all of the following, and after the debate has been held, we will approach the vote, or I will set the vote. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, in order to determine the quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Milos Nesovic, Borisvoje Drakulović, Slobodan Pavlovic, Miodrag Jaćimović, Jelena Maslovara-Ralevic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Đerić and Ljubisa Maravic (afternoon); the delay was announced by Rajko Baralić. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Criminal Code of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Singalities) Members of the 6th Amendment together submitted the MPs Đorđe Mamula, Petar Cvetković, Dragan Jočić and Dusan Budishin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
