ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30229	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the eighth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have determined that there is a quorum for the work of the Assembly. I inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs:Radomir Naumov, Marko Jaksic, Petar Misic, Išpanovic Istvan, Kasa Jožef and Svetlana Stojanovic; Beaci Anton will be late. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Compendiums of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I remind you that at yesterday's session, following the opening presentation submitted by the motionary, MP Bojan Pajtic, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participated in a single debate on the proposal for a decision by MPs Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia and Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word, and according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate in order of the MPs, and according to the application for a word in a single search on the Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first registered speaker is Natasa Jovanovic's MP, and after that, MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established after the five-October coup, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has fought to the end that we do not have the current, proposed by Dejan Mihajlov and the Democratic Party of Serbia, and you accepted both, and before that, many amendments, energy and effort have been made not to adopt a Rules of Procedure, which was proposed on two occasions by the former head of the parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic. This is because the fundamental rights of the MPs, us who represent Serbian citizens in the highest legislative body, are being violated and because this current Rules of Procedure, just like the previous two, is in many of its elements in direct contrast with the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I will remind you of the fact that in the worst possible way, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have been chicanned, expelled. Mr. Kesejic had to go to the Emergency Centre at one point, Dr. Goran Cvetanovic received an injury in the Assembly Hall, not to mention the political and media haven of the Serbian Radical Party MPs because we cannot reconcile with putting ourselves in these shackles and within the frameworks that are not suited to the spirit of parliamentaryism in Serbia, which our people have cherished, for which our ancestors fought, and we should have continued that bright future. Of course, we continued this as the representatives of our progenitor Nikola Pasic and, above all, as members of a party headed by Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who came to this assembly and this building in the first days of the multiparty, as a doctor of science and the Chetnik Duke, to show what democratic principles were and for them stood up for when he was alone, and we continued and when we were in a much larger number; God will give us God to be again after the elections we soon expect. That is why we cannot vote for what is at least a farce, which is the establishment of a committee on economic reforms, European integration, poverty reduction and gender equality. First of all, because we believe that this proposal is a direct consequence of some dissatisfaction and the unfulfilled ambitions of certain MPs or MPs, as you like to say, within the DoS parliamentary group, and because the information of the proposed committees is farsic, given that the Committee on Economic Reform cannot improve the overall economic situation, because it is not in a position to do so either. There is little time to create some retrospective event and to see what these results are in the area of reform by the DOS government, but when it comes to the Committee on European Integration, it is probably because Cedomir Jovanovic, now vice-president of the Republic government, is in charge of these relations, and I must remind you that there is such a commission already in the government of the Republic of Serbia. What will the Assembly Committee on European Integration do? Isn't it enough that Minister Pitic spends 30 million or 40 million dinars on various trips around the white world? We have approved it, and now we need a board of these many proposed members who will lead some rough debates, with no concrete shifts in the area of economy and improvements in citizens' standards. When it comes to the poverty reduction committee, it is incomprehensible that Bojan Pajtic did not give us an explanation why such a committee. He would have to know, and obviously he doesn't want to know, as well as the MP group DOS, that poverty, not only in our country, but in the whole world, is categorized as absolute and relative. There are indicators of what is absolute and what is relative poverty, including those who are your political mentors, with whom you agree with the laws, say - so is their assessment - that in our country there is a higher degree of absolute poverty, because the consumer basket, as it is, cannot achieve 2.5 million inhabitants with its incomes because it has no conditions to work. Gender equality; regardless of what I come from an extremely anti-Communist family, but I have nothing against those who have passed over, whether because of their family members or because of their delusions, because of the ideology that has kept them in their youth, and many have now maintained these principles, only more perfect than Joseph Broz; but you know these AFZ structures, feminist movements, this has been overcome everywhere in the world, so as a representative of Serbs or Serbs, it is incomprehensible to organise such a committee today, which would probably only have the goal of potentially protecting individual press representatives, or representatives from, above all, immeasurable and vulgar attacks by Neboje Covic. Only that part and that argument can contribute to the establishment of such a committee. But it doesn't take any committee, because constitutional and political rights of a member, conditionally speaking, of a gentler sex and men, at least we showed it in the Serbian Radical Party, are absolutely even and pointless to have such pro-Communist committees. That's why we're voting against all four committees you intend to establish.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30231	The word of the peoples is from the Messenger Tom Bushetic. After him, Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30232	Dear fellow Members of the People, considering today's amendment and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we expected this very restrictive act to change, at least in the way it was in the time of our government. We expected the provisions by which each MP had the right to speak of every law for 10 minutes, but of course, there is nothing. We expected that the current provisions would be amended and the provisions by which each MP could propose an amendment to each member would be returned, but, of course, there is none. We thought DOS would remember to specify the provisions relating to direct television transmissions, because it was a major flow of the then opposition, the current authorities. Of course, there's nothing to it either. What we are offered in this proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure - the formation of several new committees. What's all this about when it's obvious that this government came to an end, when it's deep in the third year of office. On the other hand, it is quite clear that education of all these committees -- for economic reforms, poverty reduction, European integration -- will not change anything on all these very important issues; nor will economic reforms be accelerated, nor will European integration improve, nor will poverty be reduced in Serbia, which is very evident. When it comes to economic reforms, we know what reforms are and what laws have been passed in this congregation. All these reforms, according to the government, are very painful, but all of them have done little good. Today, Serbia's economy is collapsing, stopped, industrial production is below the wartime, meaning in time and 1999, and at the time of the 2000 sanctions. What's very important - it's getting worse and worse. So that little enthusiasm, knowledge and intelligence that was up to 2000 -- it's all exhausting; 2001 is worse than 2000; 2002 is worse than 2001; 2003 will be worse than 2002; and 2004, if this government stays, it will be a total collapse. So there's nothing good ahead of us. On the other hand, the Committee on Economic Reform - what kind of reform will it be, for example, in law? We know that in this assembly laws have been passed, which you generally call reformal, mean reductions in the rights of workers, unemployed, pensioners, imposes, taxes, these are the reforms of these authorities. That's why it's completely unnecessary to form a committee like this. When I talk about the poverty reduction committee, today in Serbia is the biggest poverty. Maybe only Albania is worse than us. The number of unemployed is over 30%. It's nowhere in Europe. It is clear that this authority has accepted the concept of the IMF, which is the concept of an overall robbery, and it comes down to the sale of material resources and the reduction of the rights of workers and peasants, employees and unemployed. It's the fourth stage in so-called. The concept of structural adjustment has already been seen in all the countries around us, and this concept will certainly be in force in Serbia as well. So, by forming this committee, there will be no reduction in poverty. On the contrary, poverty will be ever greater and greater. The government has adopted a poverty reduction strategy these days. And it's already been seen. In all these countries, Bulgaria and Romania -- this is the fourth phase. The first phase - quick sale of everything worth it; the second phase - market-based; the third phase - liberalisation of the capital market; and the fourth one - a strategy for poverty reduction. What does strategy mean anyway, and what does it mean, in a way, and this committee? Poverty will increase. That means invadeing foreign goods and shutting down domestic production. Therefore, this committee is also unnecessary. First of all, it's a marketing move, a propaganda trick, and a distraction of the people. Finally, and about European integration. Every morning we wake up and watch TV leaders of DOS who only talk about European integration. To be clear, no one has anything against European integration. We are all for European integration. And can that story, at this point, fix anything? Are there issues of unemployment, production? Nothing's being solved. DOS leaders don't talk about it at all. It's just -- we're going into Europe and we're solving all the issues. The story itself doesn't solve anything. I don't know what the point of forming this committee is. Maybe there's only one excuse to be found, of course, that's not from our point of view an unwarranted solution. DOS leaders like to travel a lot. Now that MPs may be deprived and do not have the opportunity, by forming this committee on European integration, now MPs will be able to travel around the world, share experiences, and of course, there will be these other good MPs from the opposition, DOS aiders, you will see that they will also be in all these delegations for various trips across Europe, and besides, here are these other committees, to see who will go to Berlin in a few days. So, next to the DOS MPs, there will be these good MPs of the opposition. Therefore, all in all, we will not support this proposal to amend and supplement, for nothing is good. This is a distraction. No burning issue, a burning problem in Serbia will be resolved by forming these committees, nor will economic activity be accelerated, nor will European integration improve, nor will poverty be reduced. So, you can see everything, you know, nothing new, but there's this other one -- it's all coming back, everything's being paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30233	The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30234	Dear colleagues, when the proponent explained his proposal, he used big words as institution building, institution building, and he got a big round of applause here, but I didn't know if he was joking, did he really think he was proposing this kind of reform of institutions, with only two members. At a time when we are discussing important procedural issues without television transmission, at a time when the Administrative Board of this institution makes unconstitutional decisions, at a time when we have political prisoners in the country, we are discussing two members who should, like, reform this institution. When one of our statesmen, Vojislav Kostunica, asked how he would solve some big problem, he said -- at this point it's a big problem and we'll look for solutions for a long time. We may not have a solution right now, but we will all come up with a solution through democratic procedure. In this home, we've been faced with a lot of problems several times. This home will also face major problems in the future, so it is extremely important that we establish exactly the right democratic procedure through which we will come to a solution to these complex problems. If the Proposer had indeed had a serious intention to reform the Rules of Procedure and make serious procedures, he would not have done so alone as an individual and as an MP, which he certainly has the right to do, but the Administrative Board of this Assembly would have used its business rights and obligations and would have made a serious and responsible Rules of Procedure in which all procedural issues would have been regulated. As best evidence of good intentions, we might have the possibility, which I suggest to you here, that the government must appear here every two weeks and that at the beginning of the session it answers our parliamentary questions. If the promoter had a serious intention to reform the Rules of Procedure and make a serious democratic procedure in this House, he would have prevented any abuse of the urgent procedure that has been happening to us in this Parliament for months and through this abuse of emergency procedures MPs are being put in a position to have laws before them all day or two. If the promoter had a serious intention to reform the Rules of Procedure, we would have had a proposal to introduce a legislative calendar into this assembly, which would have been adopted at the beginning of the year, which would have been in front of all of us and that legislative calendar would have determined when the law would be on the agenda. What's very problematic is that this bill, as I said, has only two members and deals with new committees. We already have 25 committees in this house. With this proposal and assuming that the DSS and SPS amendments will be accepted, we would be in a position to have 31 Assembly committees. We all know that it is a good practice in developed democracies that committees are the supervision or control of a particular ministry and that the Assembly committees and ministries usually go 1:1. Of course, this is where committees are introduced that are standard in developed democracies. However, they are introduced into quasinacin, and even individual board members are elected by quasimethod, which is even contrary to the current, applicable Rules of Procedure, i.e. the 25th member of the Rules of Procedure. I am talking about the Committee on Reform, as you saw in the proposal, that committee makes up 21 members, and 12 MPs are elected by the delegate system. Just because the DOS has a majority in most committees, it is logical to assume that these 12 MPs, which already constitute quorum and most of the committee, will be representatives of DOS, and when the nine board members elected by a proportional system, it turns out that more than 15 or 16 of the 21 members of the board will be representatives of the ruling coalition. Practically, any participation of opposition parties in the Committee's work is devised. It's a serious failure and I'm surprised that the promoter, who is a serious lawyer and university professor, has made such a serious failure. It was probably done in order to control absolutely the quasireform process which, of course, should not be, according to the promoter's intent, under the keen public eye. What we at the DSS have proposed, which is extremely important, and what I call for you to vote for, is the introduction of a board of public accounts. The Public Accounts Committee would control the implementation of the budget, the final account of the budget and the funds financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is good practice in developed democracies, and we especially need it at a time when we do not yet have a developed institution such as the Supreme Court of Auditors or the Council of Public Accounts. The formation of that institution is in the process. There is an initiative by the Finance Committee that will try to regulate the area and form that supreme accounting court, i.e. to pass a law on the Supreme Accounting Institution. Until the establishment is formed, it is extremely important that parliament and parliamentary committees have insight into budget implementation, which would be possible by hiring an independent auditory house. The independent auditory house would report to the committee, which would be discussed. On the basis of this report, the Committee would request additional reports and, most importantly, had direct insight into all documents. It's a practice that would be good to introduce, especially, as I've already said, in a sensitive and unstable country in transition, like ours. I'll go back to this story about procedure. I strongly urge the Administrative Committee to approach the adoption of a new Rules of Procedure. A joint meeting with OSCE representatives, which took place in this house on 18 April, adopted an action plan that obliges us to enter the autumn session with the new rules of procedure. In this action plan, for those MPs who do not know, it is an initiative for MPs to have insight into the stenographic notes from the government's sittings, to adopt that legislative calendar that I was talking about, that the government is responding to parliamentary issues and a number of other solutions that would truly contribute to democratic procedures. As I spoke at the beginning as I quoted by a Serbian statesman, the democratic procedure will best lead you to a solution to those problems we are unable to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30235	The word is made by MP Bojan Pajtic, a proponent of the act, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30236	An esteemed colleague, and some speakers have previously said one completely contradictory thing, and they have acted contradictively through making amendments to this proposal for a decision, arguing that there are already too many committees in the Assembly, means that 25 committees are many, that the increase for four other committees is too much and then propose to amend some more committees. So it's completely contradictory, it's not a matter of the number of committees, it's a matter of quality that these committees bring and we can argue about. About the number itself, I don't think it makes much sense. If we are talking about the structure of the Committee on Economic Reforms, so this committee should have representatives of 12 different committees and the claim that they will be delegates to the DOS, that it is natural for them to be representatives of the majority, a representative of all the 12 committees, and in doing so we have the presidents of some opposition committees among those committees, this speaks more of your resolution than of ours. Where did you get such an idea? Furthermore, the claim that the proposal from these committees is to throw dust in the eyes, I don't think that's correct, and that's repeated by several speakers. Let me take part in these committees, every committee has all the parties involved, see if these committees will show in practice that they are both necessary and productive. In all other countries they have shown that they are productive. The claim that we do not need a Committee on Gender Equality, look at only the structure and relationship between the female and male population, see how this in the extreme line in both Europe and the world looks; therefore, everywhere still that female population has not reached that level that achieves the reception of men. Look at the structure in this House, where the appearance of a more beautiful half is just a controversial and exception that confirms the rule, therefore, the standards that we must introduce into political life, both in the economy and in social life, and must be based on such a principle that the majority population, therefore, is given the place that deserves to measure how it is in Europe and in the world. So, once again read this proposal for a decision, think about whether you need a committee on economic reform, for European integration, whether or not for gender equality, consider when you talk about the role of parliament that parliament is a supreme legislative body, that Parliament has a control over the executive power, that Parliament ultimately decides what the strategy is and what the policy is needed in each country, then finally state the court whether it is really unnecessary for Parliament and parliamentary committees to declare the basic directions in which one country is moving.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30237	The word has the People's Messenger Siniša Mitrovic. (Dusan Ilic, from the scene: The Proposer takes the word whenever he wants.) ) Please, without a throw, consult a stenogram, MP Bojan Pajtic has received the right to reply. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic, followed by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30238	Dear Mrs Comic, dear fellow MPs, although we have a hard day ahead of us, I couldn't help but talk about what European integration is, let me at least say a little about it, because it's really unethical to caricate some of the processes that are a policy instrument. I really can't accept that the purpose of the board is to have someone travel abroad, to see a resort, really this cartooning, and that story is incomplete in something that is a serious political dialogue in Parliament. I must mention that in 2002, the Liberals of Serbia gave an initiative for European integration, and I would just like to remind myself that what the previous counterpart was talking about and that it was our dialogue with MissionOEBS in Yugoslavia, which is that the committees are policy tools. The committees in parliament are a policy instrument and this gives priority to all MPs and all parliamentary groups. What does that mean? Our mission is to build consensus in Parliament, not government. The story is big when it comes to parliamentaryism in Serbia, and the purpose of this story called European integration, is to be an agreement between all representatives of Serbian citizens, not to be the decision of the Government of the Republic and then, as such, to be subject to change or change in some new and next elections. That is why I am sure that this is an advantage for all parliamentary groups, and it was a call from fellow Pitiæ to try to reach this necessary consensus on joining the European Union by implementing the story. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia made it clear in April at its Committee on European Integration that the priority of the Serbian state is European integration. Why is this decision good in parliament? I must remind that all the European Union parliaments, and the parliaments of the member states, and the candidate for the European Union, also own the Committee on European Integration in their nomenclature. It is important to encourage the purpose and activity of the Committee on European Integration to be to bring internal legislation into line with the legislation of the European Union. Why does it matter? Why has it not been implemented in the Legislative Committee I would now talk about this negative partnership with a committee that already exists in Parliament, because this is the alignment of the internal law with the European Union's legislation. I would say that the priority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is integration into the Evopi Union and I really don't see any reason why we as government policy holders and as people who have a majority government in Parliament are ashamed to say that the strategic interest of the state of Serbia is integration in the European Union. Why would we minimise such a process, why not open it and offer it to everyone at a consensus to get to the common interest of Serbian citizens in the future. I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, and the European Union has said that priority is in the European Union's Western Balkan country policy and their involvement in the European integration process. As part of this process, I think we will also need the document of the Serbian Parliament on European integration, and it must be a consensus of all parliamentary groups, whether they are on the left, right or have a civil option. Finally, I would like to represent the experience of Poland, which, in its status as joining the European Union, has passed 500 new laws in parliament. I'd like to remind you that our dynamics were about 100 legal documents in 2002. Finally, the most important message for the citizens of Serbia, what is the benefit that European policy brings us? For a young generation, it's an opportunity to live better, for middle-generation people it's a new chance to live better, for those of the third age, it's an opportunity to live healthy and to travel, which is the interest of each group. It's that benefit that's going to get us, not a cartoon of the story. I want to question myself first and ask each and every one of you that question, but this whole story is in our hands. All depends on us, the dynamics of the accession process will depend on Parliament's stability, on its capacity to understand what European integration is, what European processes are, and indeed as citizens, as representatives of those who chose us, that as people who have their families, their neighbours, our friends, we do something little good, and that is to agree that it is a national consensus - entering Europe. It will certainly be something that will justify us before history and something we will not be ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30239	The word is by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, followed by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30240	Ladies and gentlemen, when we received the Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was addressed by the head of Parliament's rough DOS, Bojan Pajtic, I expected that he would contain some concrete and fundamental changes to the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitutional Court's decision, which was made the other day, concerning the right to have parliamentary mandates, is proof that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in many of its points is unconstitutional. Therefore, this Constitutional Court decision, which says MPs have mandates, automatically denies the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which concern the time foreseen for discussion, provided that they specify that they have parliamentary groups, rather than MPs, time-limited for discussion. What is the background of such a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? It shows once again the real essence of the current government, because by adding these four committees to the so far 25 committees of the National Assembly will not improve the quality of work, it will not make it work faster, more efficient and pass laws, that these laws are better, but will serve as another marketing trick of the current government. Namely, the new Committee on Economic Reform is scheduled to be formed tonight, i.e. when this decision is adopted, RTS will announce that, on a proposal from the ruling coalition, the parliament of the Republic of Serbia has been involved in economic reforms, and this is another new step and a move that will make economic reforms faster, more efficient, more radical, more concrete. Then, the Committee on European Integration; there will also be stories about how the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything to get Serbia into Europe, and that this is an additional effort by the legislative branch of government to integrate into Europe. This poverty reduction committee, as is now the legislative authority involved in the fight against poverty. The Committee on Gender Equality; indeed, the proposal for the establishment of this committee and the justification are ridiculous. I was pleased when I read the proposal to form a poverty reduction committee, as such a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the head of the DOS Parliament Club, Bojan Pajtic, denied all that Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Goran Pitic said yesterday after this speaker. In his final speech, he assured us that the government of the Republic of Serbia has done much to defeat poverty in Serbia, that the social and economic situation today in Serbia is incomparably better than it was before October 5th, as today's average consumer basket accounts for 65% of Serbia's average profit. This suggests that poverty in Serbia has been eradicated, defeated and gone. However, here, such a proposal by Bojan Pajtic is best denied by the minister. I'm surprised there's no reason why a poverty reduction committee is being formed. We have in mind the reason why a committee on economic reforms, economic integration and gender equality is formed, but there is not a single sentence on the poverty reduction committee, why it is necessary and why it is necessary for this committee to be formed, because with one single sentence concerning the formation of the committee, it would also be denied by Minister Pitic and the complete Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30241	The word has been given by MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by MP Petar Mađarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, this is already an established practice that we change the Rules of Procedure on Labour very often, but each other is more restrictive than before. This is precisely the argument at the end, which is why this amendment to the Rules of Procedure is made. No greater irony, no less cynicism than when, as a reason for the introduction of new committees, the time it takes for some laws to be studied more thoroughly. If it is known that we have limited the time for discussion to five minutes, the president of the Parliament Club is constantly cutting time to three minutes. On the other hand, in an explanation, we ask that the discussions be well prepared and discussed with the law for longer. This says that economic reforms cannot be achieved successfully without strong legislation. The current legislative process is such that laws concerning reform of the economic system pass too quickly, be careful, the laws pass too quickly through the assembly procedure, without sufficient analysis and consideration by the committees in charge. Please, you're cutting time for three minutes. What kind of analysis, which expert opinion, is asking people in three minutes to tell you about some law that has 160-200 members. There is no greater irony, no greater sarcasm than in reason to criticise and look for reasons to introduce some other committees that we have practically invented. Be careful, the Committee on Economic Reforms is introducing maltenes in the third year of this government's existence. After 5 October, the committee was to be formed first. That's why we've brought the economy to this level it's at today. When you look at which committees are formed, one committee requires the formation of another. The Committee on Economic Reform was not formed in time, so we are forming a poverty reduction committee. There's some logic here, because this is exactly the kind of behavior, this kind of law, this kind of change that we've been doing, we've been changing some laws a few times in five or six months, it's practically the need to form a poverty reduction committee. Perhaps it would be better if this committee were called the aid committee of the hungry. I think it doesn't matter, he'd have more functions and opportunities to act and do something. When it comes to the responsibility of the Committee on Gender Equality, we have had several occasions and objections and laws, but it has not happened that one of the MPs is not proposing any amendments to the adoption of these systems. Secondly, today, at this session, we were expecting, when we learned that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure would be made, that this Rules of Procedure would allow MPs to behave with dignity, that they would enable MPs to be in the right sense of the words, and in fact it would be that we had just brought such amendments and additions practically to the citizens of the second order. Here, first of all, I think of people, not only the changes that have been made, the removal of mandates, etc., which led to the Constitutional Court, but I mean only the state in the Assembly in which the MP cannot advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because only the president of the Parliament club has to do so. The MP can't ask a parliamentary question. When did we have answers to parliamentary questions? When did we ask these questions? Why is this practice even lifted? Technically, it exists, but it cannot be used - asking parliamentary questions. I wouldn't be talking about the possibilities and abuses of the chairman now, when it comes to some discussions that don't suit us. In particular, I'm referring to warnings that are very easy, casually given. Give me an example that someone from the ruling majority, in this time of two and a half years, has received at least one warning because of their behavior. Give me one such example. Of course, that's the way it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30243	We have an example, it's MP Branislav Pomoriski, who I gave a warning to. The People's Messenger Petar Mađarevic has the word, and after him is the word of the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30244	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, about a month and a half ago in this republic's assembly, were held in the organisation of the OSCE Mission in Serbia-Montenegro, sessions aimed at making certain repairs to our rules of procedure and at optimising the work of assembly committees, of course in line with the positive experiences that exist in European parliamentary democracies. One of the conclusions of these sessions, which included MPs and MPs of the opposition, above all, was the optimization of the work of the board, and all because we live in a poor country that does not have enough resources, and consequently, there is not enough resources not only for life but also for the republican congregation. The Republic Assembly, until this proposal is submitted, has 25 committees. The very organisation of the administration, within the republican congregation, is problematic. All committees do not have their own secretaries, no records from individual committees are kept, although there is a business obligation to do so. We are coming into the situation that because of the lack of staff that can properly monitor the work of the board, there may be a need for an already existing number of committees to come down to a small number, and above all, given the monitoring of the work of some resolution ministries. I have an analysis in front of me about the committee's work in 2002. The information is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in that year, in 2002, did not have a single session, as well as the Committee on Transport and Connections. The Trade and Tourism Committee had only one session. The Youth and Sports Committee did not hold a single session, and the Committee on Science and Technological Development held only one session. It is true that the Legislative Committee held 37 sessions, but these are technical sessions at which it is simply assessed whether certain amendments and legislative proposals are in accordance with the Constitution or whether they are legally possible. The Management Board showed envious activity and held a 19-session session. Those sessions, in my deep conviction, were aimed at bringing down the reputation of this republican congregation. I would remind you that that year, which was somewhere in mid-June last year, the Democratic Party of Serbia was expelled from the Assembly by a constitutional decision, which was a later decision of the Constitutional Court. This is where I'd like to draw your attention to the suggestion that's been made in the interview with the OSCE. It's about this board of public accounts. It's something that's common. The government shouldn't run away from it, because it's something that goes in favor of all the citizens of this country. The executive power, it is not only present with us, strives to give as little information as possible about its work and tends to place as little account as possible to parliament. In our country, I must really say, it is very prominent, given that, until now, the Republic Government has submitted only one report on its work. Of course, we expect reports on government work not only to be submitted to committees, but also to be held at plenary sessions. As regards the participation of individual parties in committees, as referred to in Article 25. The Rules of Procedure, which means a relative number of MPs, I must say, there was a severe violation of this principle after June of last year. This has happened since the time when the Democratic Party of Serbia, by decision of the Administrative Committee, lost its mandate in this assembly. After that, by returning to the restitution, the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia did not return to the committees they otherwise attended. It is true that they have been returned to some committees, but many committees have not. I did a little analysis of what I was talking about. We now have a situation where the Democratic Party of Serbia has the right, proportionate to its size, to 62 seats on boards, which have 337 seats in total, of course I am talking about the already existing committees (25 of them). So the Democratic Party of Serbia has minus 16 seats, so much taken from it. In particular, it has taken place on those committees which make decisions concerning the status of MPs, for example, such as the Administrative Board, etc. The Democratic Party, I would use that parameter, has the right, the proportion of MPs, to 63, and it's 75, so it has plus 12. Some other parties are also disproportionately represented. I would not mention this precisely because all parties should use this, or should allow all interested parties to participate in the work of all committees. This is the goal of a democratic society, a democratic institution such as parliament, centrally in one state. I'd like to go back to this motion decision. Article 68 provides for the establishment of a poverty reduction committee. The responsibility of the committee shall be to define how the National Assembly participates. I think it's a nonsens. The committee cannot define the way the Assembly participates, it must be done by the Assembly itself. The Committee could possibly suggest something to the Assembly. A few days ago we learned that there was some kind of poverty prevention strategy, I don't remember exactly which authority of the Republic government announced it. The general public is not familiar with it at all. As an MP, who is considered above-average informed in relation to an ordinary citizen, I do not know what this strategy is about. The strategy was brought without the involvement of parliament, if it was ever brought, if at all there is, somewhere in the government, I suppose in one of the ministries in charge of this problem. Now, with regard to this strategy, the Assembly suddenly wants a committee to be formed to deal with something that no one knows what it is. I think he's trying to plant a cowardly egg to the National Assembly, or committee, of course, if this motion is adopted, which will be formed. The issue of social policy and protection programmes for the most socially endangered categories is certainly within the authority of the government and the resolution ministries. There is no responsibility for this important area of life to be transferred to anyone else. I think the promoter wanted, by forming a committee, to show that the ruling majority in parliament is interested in curbing poverty and to care for a huge number of poor citizens. But it won't be possible, just because there has to be a previous consensus and a clear social policy, which we obviously don't have in our country. In its work cycle, the Committee would also have to have a review of the government's report on poverty prevention activities, which, of course, is not. Simply by system - my concern goes to another one, the government transfers that responsibility to some committee, that is, in this case the Assembly Committee, which simply won't have enough ingenuity and competence to decide something like that. In order for something serious to be done to combat poverty at all, national income must be raised, so conditions must be created for serious investment in our economy, in our country, and in order to do so again, an institutional environment favourable to such a thing must be created, meaning the rule of law, the rule of law and the equality of all before the law. So there must be no exceptions. I have to remind the Committee on European Integration, which the Democratic Party of Serbia agrees should be in this proposal, that we had a chance to change a month ago, means before we abolished the state of emergency, the criminal laws in our country, and those laws in such a way that we took one huge step backwards. It is simply these proposals, where 60 days of detention are predicted, which in certain conditions can come even up to six months, are certainly not civilizational progress and are not approaching what we are seeking, which is the European Union. At that time, when those laws were passed, representatives of the European Union suggested that it was not good, that it was a bad solution, but the ruling majority disobeyed it. If we had this committee back then, we'd probably have to find those laws on his agenda, and they certainly wouldn't have been able to get a transitional grade. So, we are declaring ourselves to be closer to the European Union, and after that, we are going back three steps with certain legal proposals, so it becomes a vague strategy of the Republic government, whether it wants to join the European Union or wants to have laws from Milos Obrenovic's time. I think there's one basic problem that in our country back in 60 years, to take that period since World War II, Parliamentism almost didn't exist. So something came up after 1990, but it's mostly more of an imitation of parliamentaryism than it really is. Simply in the people, over this period of 60 years, there has been an authoritarian consciousness, which is basically the biggest obstacle to any democracy, and in order to be able to democratisation society, primarily a key institution, which is the most democratic one, which is Parliament, must be free of that authoritarian consciousness. With such proposals and this kind of approach, we are still far from it, but I hope that after the next republican elections and the change of government we will be able to get close to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30245	On the basis of Article 84(2) and due to a lack of information that the MP has, I am in charge of the Secretary of the Health Committee and the Secretary of your MP club to inform you of the written information on his work, which is led to a poverty reduction strategy, very seriously in the last nine months in this assembly and in the network of NGOs, opposition parties and experts. The MP club had to be informed about it. I'm allowing for failures, and I'm tasking the Secretary of the Health Committee to supply the MP with the necessary information. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30246	Before I say a word about the Rules of Procedure, it's interesting what you said, since the government is neither reporting to this assembly nor reporting to the ministries, nor discussing it here, we can't even know what that government is doing. As it works to reduce poverty, it is seen by the government's results, where the decline in average earnings last December -- 14% this year, a decline in industrial production and an increase in the unemployment rate. It is the best report on poverty reduction in Serbia and on the measures the government of the Republic of Serbia is taking.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30247	People's MP, I'll repeat the information, since we obviously didn't listen very carefully. So, it's not about the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it's about the strategy that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been working through committees of the National Assembly, by international organisations, NGOs, which has been notified in writing to every Parliament club and every committee of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30248	If you're done, I'd like to warn you that you have no right to take a stand with me in this way, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should already, when I'm done, give me the necessary explanation, not interrupt me in the presentation. The Democratic Party of Serbia is certainly ready to take responsibility for the Rules of Procedure, which was brought into this assembly and the fact is that we have proposed some provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which are now in force. These provisions have been shown to be harmful, bad, and to deny the rights of MPs. We're willing to take that kind of responsibility to take over and not run away from it. I think that's what we're saying, and we're saying that, that this Rules of Procedure, when after an emergency election we enter this assembly in greater numbers and we win most of it, we're going to change and bring the rules of procedure that will be in line with what the OSCE recommended on the round table, which was held in this assembly just over a month ago. If it is already going to change the Rules of Procedure and if it is looking at what can be changed and complemented, then an analysis of the existing state should be made. An analysis of the existing situation, which was referred to on the round table which the OSCE organised and the consequences of such a Rules of Procedure, which we see every day, say that the largest number of assembly committees does not work, that they function badly, that there is no institution of the Assembly Committee at all, which is seriously and reasonedly discussing any law before the law enters the assembly procedure. MPs are the victims of an irresponsible government policy, which suggests a bunch of laws by emergency procedure. In normal countries, there is something called a bill-making plan, there is something called first law-reading, or law-reading before the final text of the bill and something called co-operation between the Government and the Committee, the Assembly and the Committee on the adoption of a good bill. The committees almost don't do what they're supposed to do, which is to discuss the laws before they come to the agenda and make objections before we get the final bill. These were rare cases, when such discussions were held. I can mention the Public Information Act, where there was communication between the board, the government and NGOs. There's almost no such thing with other laws. We do not see the function of the Assembly committees, and we believe that the committees must meet more often, that they must discuss all the laws, not that members of the board like the windmills, five minutes before the beginning of the session, come together, vote, and thus give support to some law without knowing what they have voted for. Remember the Tax Act, the law passed regardless of the objections we made, that the taxes were raised, high and other, and then the ministers, whose deputies were sitting in this room and who voted in favour of the law, asked who raised the taxes. The foreign minister wonders who raised so many fees for entering the country and when it was done, and the president of the Assembly is right from his party and we warned her about those fees, but those fees were raised and then someone wonders, as did Minister of Trade Milosavljevic, who wonders who raised the fees and was at the government's session when the law was voted on. Does that mean the minister didn't even read the law, and it's about a cab ride? So, ladies and gentlemen, when ministers vote for the government law, then after he comes into force, they wonder who voted the bill, who suggested it. This tells you in addition to the assessment that congregation committees do not do their job and that they do not have good communication with the government and that the bill's proposals do not have that first, second reading. When I say reading, it means crossing certain provisions, making remarks, so there's no constructive committee work. Will this Rules of Procedure advance the work of the Assembly Committees? Of course not. These amendments to the Rules of Procedure only introduce new committees and have not looked at the effectiveness of the old committees. If we take the OSCE's suggestions to establish that each ministry should have its own pandandan in the Assembly through the Assembly board, then we should have seen which committees we will make and bring them into line with the number of ministries, which does not mean that it would be more effective, given that Serbia has more ministers and vice-presidents of the government, it has a bigger government than any normal state in Europe, but it would mean at least that each ministry gets its own pandan. If we are talking about the composition of the board, Mr. Hungarianević spoke before me about the composition of the board, this composition is not in line with a member of the Rules of Procedure, which says that all parties must be proportionately represented on boards. The committees are not harmonised, the composition of the committee is not in line with the composition of the Members in this assembly. If we are talking about new committees, the DSS has proposed to introduce a public account committee, or a committee that would control the spending of funds on public finances. She suggested that the chairman of the board be of the opposition. This is so in practice in many parliamentary states -- that the opposition controls the government in the Assembly as money is spent and that it can absolutely ask for an additional explanation for each item of the budget. We think it's a good thing and it's a quality solution. Just look at how it is proposed - the Committee on Economic Reform, how it is drawn up, or what its composition is. Almost half of the board is composed of other committees. You have proposed that one half of the committees be represented by representatives of other committees, representatives of committees where not all parliamentary groups, in which the rest of the DOS has a majority, will delegate its people to this committee, and the other part to be represented equally, so that the opposition in that committee, contrary to this Rules of Procedure, will have perhaps a quarter in relation to that number that should be represented. What kind of economic reforms and debate on the seriousness of economic reforms and individual measures in economic reforms we can talk about if, at the beginning of the position, there will be more than a comfortable three-quarter majority and there will be no possibility of any more serious debate in that committee. We have also proposed that the chairman of the committee be of the order of the opposition, because we believe that those who are on the opposite side have the right to ask questions concerning economic reforms, but of course the composition of the committee is in line with the Assembly's membership, or that MPs who have the authority form the majority of the board, but that the chairman of the board be of the order of the opposition and that we also open up the possibility for critical discussions at committee meetings on individual measures taken by the government. A particularly interesting committee on European integration, which we will, of course, support. We believe that earlier, a set of laws in this assembly would not have been passed and that the committee would have opposed the adoption of laws directly contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, the principles on which the Council of Europe operates, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and that this committee might have been a brake for some of the anti-constitutional and illegal decisions made in this assembly. There are such laws, you get slaps from abroad, because you did not listen and you did not follow the "macols" that we have been banging on you here for illegals and laws that are contrary to international decisions and now you will have these same laws, as Minister Batic announces, to change. For me, it will be a particularly interesting question to see whether, not this assembly, but those in charge, which is the Assembly of the State Community and the Council of Ministers, and which position will support: that a bilateral agreement will be signed with the United States on the exemption of US citizens from the jurisdiction of the International Court or that they will support the position we heard yesterday, the European Union, that, if we want to go to Europe, we must respect the views of the European Union, which are two completely opposite things. We will see whether this assembly committee will discuss whether we will go deaf about Europe's demand for European integration and conclude a bilateral agreement with the United States on the exemption of US citizens from the International Court of War Crimes, the International Court of Justice which was formed last year, or whether we will conclude this agreement with the United States and thus distance us from European integration and everything that we unfortunately, or most of it here, are just declaring ourselves, and when it comes to law, when it comes to respecting international conventions, it does not happen. These are all the things that will be tests to test and see our readiness for European integration. I hope we too will ask that question before this committee - whether they will consider such a decision, regardless of what is in the power of the Council of Ministers. (President: Are you using the next 10 minutes? No, I'm done. But since we have a committee on European integration, to coordinate and harmonize our relations with the European Union, we should certainly take care of it, no matter how small, but very important a question for our future co-operation with the European Union, because as DSS, we believe that good relations with the European Union are our future and that this harsh violation of the European Union's views on the signing of an agreement with the United States on the exemption of their citizens from the International Criminal Court would not bring us anything from European integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30249	National MP Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30250	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, every opportunity to discuss a certain item of the agenda is obviously an opportunity to talk about something else, which is no longer a topic. I do not object, I just find that any debate on a particular proposal, whether it is a legislative proposal or a proposal, such as in this case for amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is preceded by some information or communication process, and then by a process of understanding. You'll allow me to realize that the information or notification process in a large number of cases is over, but the understanding obviously takes place. Everyone has the right to understand something, but there is no right to say that he is not informed, especially if he is a member of a working parliamentary group, let's say, the OSCE project, which has been mentioned several times, on improving the work of the Assembly Committees and the Assembly as the most legislative institution in the whole. What I'm going to back this up with. In particular, I am talking about proposals for the establishment of four new committees and a proposal for the establishment of a poverty reduction committee. This assembly is also in written form, as well as in the form of a conference and round table, offered detailed information and presenting the whole idea of a project to reduce poverty. Some colleagues are nodding their heads, who have been informed, and my DSS colleagues have been informed that Dragoljub Vojinovic and Dusan Ilic participated in the debate, while other DSS MPs were present. Therefore, if it is about the exchange of information, I ask that they be first exchanged within the Parliament club, so that the argument behind this assembly speaker would be an argument rather than a simple insinuation. The formation of four new committees does not exclude the debate that some committees that exist are not surpluses or are pointless, as well as the suggestion that there should be some other committees. I agree with the idea that committees that haven't worked or didn't have one session perhaps should certainly reconsider their work, and perhaps they shouldn't exist. But let's offer an argument for and against, and then consider it in some next amendment to the Rules of Procedure to take a stand. The fact is that during the past two years, the Assembly has survived and endured many changes, in my understanding, in a quality way, especially those concerning the promotion of the work of the MPs and the insistence on the positioning of the Assembly committees as committees or bodies in which they truly need to work and make decisions that are binding, in the end of the plenary session, or the National Assembly in general. In this direction there are changes or innovations which, with the help of the OSCE, are being introduced into the work of the Assembly. The Committee on European Integration, in the strictest sense, as a committee to deal with membership or non-membership in the European Union, of course, will not fulfil its mission. European integrations are a huge process that in five basic segments in the area of legislation and state regulation - economies and finance, human rights, security and stability of the country and in a space that exceeds all that, called culture and information - must regulate and harmonise legislation, the whole system, with the laws of the European Union. We have, many have repeated this several times, agreed that national interest is a membership in the European Union. I think that's the minimum point of the eye that everyone who sits here, and also those who aren't there right now, agrees, and beyond that. If that is some kind of national consensus around the minimum, then why is the question of the purpose of forming or non-forming one committee or another, the next? If that committee has nothing to do, it will not work, it will be disbanded. I don't see any god knowing how he worked hard to lift the Board of Appeals and Appeals or whatever his name is, which neither ambushes, nor receives complaints, nor answers those complaints. This is an example. I have great respect for a colleague who's not here and who's president of the board, but that's one example, which doesn't mean that this committee shouldn't exist. There were even flattering remarks here, in time, about insisting that treatment of gender equality or gender equality, as it was common to say by yesterday, flattering remarks on this and even a large, too long process about, first, forming advice with the Serbian government on the issue, and then committees in the Assembly. Not only as a member of the majority of this society - 52% of women, but also as one of those who not only supports this initiative but also creates from the very beginning, I justify the lack of understanding of the subject and of myself and all of my colleagues and colleagues who have announced that they are interested in being members of this committee, making it available to those who do not understand the subject, so that we can discuss it a little bit and say what, in our view, everything will be the subject of this committee. Let me just remind you of some of the key things. Research has shown that in this society, ownership of movements and immovableities is driven to 6.8% of women, alone. This means that the majority of women, made up of women, has primarily threatened economic and property status. This is just one example of what the Committee will be dealing with, primarily by analysing laws from the point of view of gender equality and representation. It was an interesting observation, and this inspired me to say that, of course, my party - the Social Democratic Party and the parliamentary group - had long sought to discuss economic, or economic reforms in a more fundamental way, given that the second national consensus was reached on the need for reforms. The need for reform, on the one hand, was challenged by the fact that they were too fast, and on the other hand, that they were too slow. In any case, I think we'll reach agreement on this too, that none of us are fully satisfied with the effect of the reforms, which means that they should continue, not interrupt. Who would be more invited to discuss economic reforms and initiate legislation, if not us, MPs in the appropriate committee. I don't see anyone more invited, if we're still experiencing the Assembly as the highest institution of the parliamentary system as we are. The Committee on the Reduction of Poverty; the strategy, which the United Nations adopted in 1999, is called the Millennium Development Strategy and refers to the period until 2015 and, above all, is focused on something called the Colloquial Reduction of Poverty, which actually means a comprehensive, fundamental programme on poverty reduction caused by all reasons, starting with that the economic weakness is large, the food crisis in some other areas where we do not live, especially I think of African and far-reaching countries, that the cause of poverty and the fact that some environment has or does not have access to public services, health services and similar, that the cause of poverty in many cases is precisely this gender inequality, i.e. diversity, etc. This coverage of the topic or problem was initiated by the World Bank project, the project was launched in the country last June, by the government of the Republic of Serbia to form a national team to run a project to create a poverty reduction strategy, is directly responsible for Minister Gordana Matkovic's ministry, but the national team, as such, exists and works for a year. What's he doing? In the consultation process he hired not only experts, but also members of all layers of society. Let me tell you, in that so-called. The consultation process, because I don't like the term and that's why I say so, are civil society representatives, unions, experts and experts from all levels of government, from local self-government to republican and federal. What did this team do now? After a survey presented to the Serbian Parliament on 31 January this year, I am looking at some who were on it, and 54 of my colleagues and your colleagues attended when the draft and results of the survey were presented and announced that the draft strategy would be done by the end of April and that we would go, as it is in the whole project, to the government, and that, as a legislative body that decides, among other things, on national strategies, we would have to have a committee that is not only a committee for the strategy, because it is a very narrow mandate, but for reducing poverty. (President: Are you using for the next ten minutes? I'm done. This research has shown that the necessity of forming not only this committee, but others who are pandantic to it, is inevitable. I think not only the MPs of the post, but also the opposition MPs will very much support this initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30251	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, followed by Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30252	It is a pity that for this part of the agenda there is no longer foreseen time for discussion, because we finally have the opportunity to hear and speak well from representatives of the authorities, or parties that support power. The topic is interesting, but I get the impression that the discussions so far have been quite wrong, i.e. - the work of a good, insufficient one. It would be a professor's evaluation, for one simple reason, because obviously you don't know the problem ahead of us. On the basis of the Constitution, and one provision, the National Assembly is obliged to regulate its organisation, way of working, and certain status issues of MPs. Again, I must say that there is one provision in our Constitution that guarantees a multiparty life, political pluralism. I must say that this parliamentary system has been in place since 1990, that it has essentially been thrown under its feet, that there is no more unity of government as from a time of socialist self-government, but a cruel division of power into legislative, executive and judicial, with precisely prescribed powers and dimensions as far as can go and who wonders. I mention this because, in the act on our organisation and the way we work, we need to sort out what is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and that is how we do legislative work, how we control the government, and how we get to our function to choose certain state officials. These stories of poverty, of economic integration, of gender equality, so I could submit an amendment if we go to the catalog of human rights, that we also need a committee to protect privacy and personality. I could go on to form a committee to prevent the violation of freedom of political organisation and action. Approximatelyly, this logic was managed by Proposer Pajtic, who is justly absent, as are all the proponents of the acts that we bring, practically, they are never here, all the honor to Mr Pitic and Djelic. We need to work this out. We need to solve the problem, is it possible that the president of the Belgrade City Assembly's Executive Board has to sit here to be a quorum, so that it can work. That's the problem with this assembly. The problem with this assembly is how laws are passed, who has been an MP in this congregation since 22 May. The problem with this assembly is that some people don't hear from their ears, which they don't see, that they forgot one thing, that everything that goes out here isn't government, it's the National Assembly. The Messengers bear responsibility, and those whom they hear, who do not hear, who see, who do not see. Your conscience always works, so you know, and when you're in power and when you're in opposition. Someone once said, first, the second reading of the law, so he gave some dimension, some significance to the committees before reaching the congregation, so he sort of arranged the work. We do not need to rewrite something that exists in some European Union countries, enough to go back to our regulations, to our 1905 Rules of Procedures and beyond. Since 1881, there has been parliamentaryism in Serbia, when radicals have finally managed to contain Milan Obrenovic and his dictatorship. Because of this struggle for parliamentaryism, over which they fought for human rights, they died people in Serbia, and fliers, Timočka Buna, etc. We don't have a parliament today. We should have talked today about how to put all those rules of the Rules of Procedure out of effect and get back that Rules of Procedure that was at the beginning of 2001. He's not good either, but he's gold compared to this one. We have a problem with discretionary powers here. Ad hoc criminal proceedings are being conducted here at the pay phone if a man talks for five minutes and one second, he loses 3,000 dinars, if he uses the word unsuspectingly, he gets a warning. Last May 21st, MPs who were not even present in the O.R. were expelled, and they were told a measure of distance. What we're talking about is whether it's a parliament, whether it's a folk-representation room, which looks at the difference -- the first of the equals, where it exists. I'm not going to warn you about those objections from your advisors, they probably had reasons, but what I'm sure, they did write you off.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30253	The word has been given by MP Dusan Cvetkovic, followed by MP Zoran M. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30254	Mrs. Komic, the honourable fellow MPs, here, two metres and something underground, this Belgrade group, we of the SPS parliamentary group - Slobodan Milosevic are in vain trying to break this months-long informative darkness that has wrapped this assembly home. We are discussing, my Leskovcans, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and from a five-hour debate only in principle you will at best come up with only information to propose the formation of four new committees. I'm sure you'll be served in front of the TV Jasenovac, i.e. Belgrade and other DOS TV, PINK and BK, that economic reforms cannot be implemented without the appropriate committee, that accession to the European Union cannot be achieved without such a committee, and that the Assembly's approval to fight poverty will do wonders and will even participate in the implementation of the national poverty strategy. We who know the division of power wonder just how can this be expected from a legislative body? For that fourth committee, which surely, respected voters, independent "journalists" will try to convince you that he will even rebirth part of article 13. Serbia's constitution when it comes to equality in the exercise of human rights on the basis of full membership. I am sure, distinguished citizens, that these same journalists will not tell you that these four committees should be established in the fourth quarter of the mandate of this assembly, they will not tell you that until they are filled with members and start of work, if only partially the rules on the establishment of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija and the Privatisation Committee are applied, these committees will function in fact in early 2004. Is it not clear to you, fellow MPs, that these additions to the Rules of Procedure are only political marketing of the ruling? By the will of these behind my back, by the will of these first five rows, those five-six Bannets and these behind the Radicals, and by order of the Serbian Government and the unanimous decision of the RTS -- no more TV transmissions, there is no way that you ordinary people can see how and with whose help, with whose debates legislative today and the future of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly are being set up. Dear Mr. Churchenjakov, be sure - whoever imposes darkness on Serbia will not be happy. If you have a church in your name, remember at least those words of Christ - there is nothing secret, which will not be public, nor hidden, which will not be revealed once. Does not it show, respected citizens, and this move -- Serbia without congregation transfers -- that this authority is the only majority and that there is no dialogue for its governments, because it can also be ruled by force by the media. By repeatedly ending this Rules of Procedure, large DOS Democrats have allowed us to spend a minute and 10 seconds, so 10 to 20 times less than a fish can live on dry land, and this government is also afraid of this unhuman television. The fact that there are 20,000 voters behind me, at least 5,000 of whom want to see me act at the job they chose me for, this government and Jasenovac TV are just as worried about last year's snow. Let the sad Lekićka, even sadder Church, make every effort to convince us that they are laughing and able to government, as the current boss, and the Assembly that adopts the grant from the budget, not to listen and spend the money. Mr. Churchenjakov and Mrs. Lekić, the distinguished members of DOS orchestrated RTS Management Board, we from the SPS, and the viewers will admit that this decision on TV is your personal act and your courage only when we see that on your program, the DS General Board session is dedicated to only one minute, which would still be three or four times more than you devote to other main committees. That is why it is true, the Rules of Procedure is such that you have installed in it that you can punish whoever you want from the opposition, and that only with an apology do you ask a lady who for the first time threw her to shut up, but that is the autonomous right of the one who runs the session of the Assembly and we can't do anything about it. You've tried to turn your MPs into regular officers, and you've tried to turn them into two-fingered students when they're supposed to come out for some needs, but you're still giving up because that doesn't work for you either. This is how the Rules of Procedure is done, and here's what you do, but let's see how. I do not know what amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly are, however, the strangest thing I have ever experienced in this House. If our viewers were able to watch this debate, they would have to shake their heads, question whether they are watching the transfer from the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly or the Serbian Parliament, because it is normal for the Rules of Procedure to be adopted at the beginning of work. We, here, in the last quarter of our term of office again on the Rules of Procedure and not to settle some small and technical issues, but to make a decision on the formation of four committees. Our astonishment with the urgency that this point is put on the agenda is that for some committees the proposals have been made since 2002, for some when we got the new Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, and that first proposed committee, it has to explain why for these, here for almost three years the DoS government, in the economy can't bloom roses, but it's all completely curving and growing just thorns. He must also accept responsibility for why production is less than last year. Why don't those privatized companies work too, why pensions are still late and thousands more why. If I just ask the question, why now the new committees, the answer will be simple -- it takes people and voters to throw a little bit more dust in their eyes to hope in vain that in the economy, something more will start to work. This act and the establishment of new committees should transfer the government's responsibility to the Assembly, because in the economy so far they have been unable to make boards for industry, traffic, urbanism, agriculture, trade and privatisation, they will be able to do so by the Committee on Economic Reform; it certainly does not stand anywhere, certainly nothing, because all reforms are carried out by segments of the economy that already have their own committees. Even less, I think, will be able to do this committee, and when it has 12 delegated members from other parent committees in it. When almost no results from the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation - poor privatisation, large redundancy of workers, a heated auction sale where customers don't know what to do and so on - suggests a new board, it is obvious that they only want to wash the Ministry of Business and Privatisation for poor results. Again on the urgency of the procedure; honourable Members of Parliament, part of what we are considering today by emergency procedure was proposed a year and a half ago. Tell me if this isn't for Ginnis. I believe that if you now submit this proposal to the Guinea-Bissau Commission, it would be convincingly the first and certainly no country for a long time would have gone beyond the urgency of 467 days. One proposal is for the education of the board and comes from February 2002 and October. So, Proposer, at the very end of the day, I ask you to answer because I have to ask you, is there really too much reason that in 460 days you failed to get into the agenda, with a regular procedure of a week, this Rules of Procedure, but it had to go according to an emergency procedure. If the people were watching this, I'm sure Mrs. Lekic and all of you would be told what kind of fraud the DOS parliamentary group is putting in their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30255	The word has the People's MP Zoran M. Nikolic, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30256	Dear fellow MPs, looking at Parliament's work until 2000, when I was of course not an MP, I firmly believed that when the parliamentary majority changed, we would change the way we worked. Also, I've had a chance to watch the work of parliaments of some other countries, say in the environment, since I have a chance to catch these TV stations. Believe me, the work of these parliaments is much better, better quality and at a significantly higher civilization level than it is here. Actually, I want to say and I'm saying that a little bit of it, let's not say at all, but a little of it certainly hasn't changed enough compared to the work of Parliament in the '90s. Why is that? It is a question for the congregation's majority and for those who are considered Democrats. I would not be as indifferent as the head of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform – when he speaks of these changes in the way he says and when he says that it is our obligation to leave a European Parliament to future generations in the legacy. This is nowhere near the European Parliament. He obviously has a problem: he doesn't know what the European Parliament is and he doesn't know what European political tradition is, and he doesn't seem to even know what our home is, because it hasn't always been like this in parliaments. We had our bright moments, when democratic procedures were respected in parliaments, which is not the case now. Just as reforms in the economy are, in the judiciary from our point of view only cosmetics, which do not go into the essence, and these reforms in the form of the formation of the new four committees also just cosmetically. So, it's not a dispute here, and we don't need to talk about whether these committees are necessary or not. On the side of the argument that these committees are necessary, it stands and is not disputed, it is not a fundamental issue. The key question is how this parliament works. Whether MPs can achieve their function, and to remind you, their basic function is to participate in legislative activity. This implies that they have time for that, so that through the parliamentary clubs, as individuals, they have the opportunity to control the work of the government administration. Is this the case in this House, does the Government have an obligation to report to the MPs and to this assembly? I don't think there are, or the facts say that the government has never submitted a report on its work since its formation, but a form has been found to go through some relevant committees, which are also very little debated. Those reports come to us 48 hours before those board meetings. That's how we plead on these reports. Of course, in this way and in these changes, we will not build a European Parliament. It certainly remains for one future, or next congregation majority, to try to do so, the sooner the better. So what we really need is the right to reform Parliament's work and within that committee, which should be the most important segment, i.e. the filter through which the laws and legal initiatives of the Government and other authorised proposings pass. The committees have to analyse the bill. It is impossible when you get 24 or 48 hours before the session of important laws and give a relevant opinion about it. Why do you do it like that? Which is why almost 60% of the law goes through here and goes according to an emergency procedure, when you're actually disabled to make a quality commitment to those laws. This is where we come up with that argument from the president, or the head of the parliamentary group, that this is not about the number of committees this assembly has, but about the quality of work. It is certain and I would like to see MPs in front of the ruling majority who will insist on this speaker that this Parliament and these committees work in quality, i.e. have the opportunity to face opinions and analyse laws in a quality argument. If anyone thinks so, let them come out and make an argument. Secondly, the committees, and therefore the Assembly, have powers, but small and actually are prevented from overseeing the work of the ruling administration, or government. The government refers to parliament as likely no country in Europe is affected by the government. The government is the central institution to which this assembly is subdued, it certainly is not good and does not go in the direction that the legal solutions for which we are responsible are better quality. When my colleague from the DSS Dusan Ilic spoke about the number of committees we have here, and it also caused controversy, or the replica of Mr Pajtic, he actually meant the following: we with these new four committees and with the committees proposed by the DSS and the SPS had, say, 31 committees, which is certainly a lot of committees, and a little time that MPs in it work qualityly. A general, overall analysis needs to be made which committees have done quality work and which have not. counterpart Natasa Milojevic here called the Committee on Presentations and Appeals and was wrong. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals, however, sat down and discussed many things. She called herself well informed and called out those who were not informed. Now for her information I just want to announce that the Committee on Transport and Relations did not meet in 2002, the Committee on Trade and Tourism only met once, the Committee on Youth and Sports did not meet in 2002, the Committee on Science and Technological Development only met once in 2000. This clearly indicates that these committees didn't work, and I agree, I don't know who said it from colleagues, before this came through for an emergency procedure in the procedure, we should have sat down and seen which committees were necessary, which are not and whether we could bring some committees together and have these committees covering not one ministry, but perhaps two or three ministries. We're getting into a phase where we have over 30 boards. It's going to be a huge overload for individual functions. It is very important that, in all this debate, we should have looked at the resources that we have here in the Assembly: whether officials, whether the professional staff of the Assembly can wash it out. It is evident that individual officials are following four or five committees. Understandably, they can't do it in a good way either. The question arises whether the Assembly has the right to hire experts on the side, for example, NGOs, whether it has the right to consult, whether it costs, whether the Assembly has the right to its own budget, and, of course, the parliamentary groups within the Assembly, and all for the sake of better work? One of the important segments is communication, i.e. repairing communication between the congregation and the public. The picture of the Assembly is what it is, therefore unchanged, is the same as the one we had in 1993 and 1995, only the congregation majority changed. In fact, the manners of the MPs, they say, intolerance, which was present and which characterized the 1990s, was passed on to this time when the congregation's majority was in other hands. The way this, conditionally said, problem solved -- no television transmissions. That's not a good way. You can't cover up the problem and put it under the rug by shutting down television transmissions, which isn't a recommendation from the OSCE. The recommendation of the OSCE is to establish a better quality relationship between the Assembly and the public. The public has the right to know what is happening in the congregation, but not only in the congregation but also in the congregation committees, in which the most work should be done. That's not happening. We've shut down television transmissions, i.e. direct transfer of the session of the Assembly, no reports, at least not those of quality, from the Assembly. The opposition has no right or opportunity to speak its mind. They're all faults. I'm really surprised why this, by emergency procedure, went with this cosmetic change, why didn't you agree on how to fix the quality of work together, of course, by respecting the opposition's opinion. As you know, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed an amendment to form another assembly committee. Again, we are surprised that the assembly majority, which seeks European integration, did not form a public finance committee. We called that board a public account committee. We find this committee extremely important. We believe that, through this committee, we can change the role of the Assembly, that the Assembly is indeed a government control body, that the Assembly will have the opportunity to request reports on the spending of money, whether it is spent in accordance with the law and on the basis of the budget envisaged or not. I believe, and indeed, that the proposal to form that committee will be supported by the congregation's majority. If our proposal is not supported, it says that the assembly majority has a big problem, that it is very serviceable to the government and that the democratic procedure is not at all interested. There is no parliament in Europe that doesn't have a committee like this. The tradition of these committees begins back in the 19th century. A Committee on Public Finance was formed in the UK in 1862. It's been working ever since. Now it is up to you to decide whether you will support the proposal to form such a committee - the Committee for Public Finance -. Anyway, we don't solve anything by forming these committees. There is absolutely nothing changing here, because there are no guarantees that these committees will work in quality and will function as citizens. It would have been better if we had sat down and all thought well together and made a new scheme, a new organisation of better quality work of Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30257	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, and the next registered speaker is MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30258	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was not fortunate to have Mrs Gordana Komic chaired this part of the assembly session, because Mrs Natasa Micic came. I'm really confused about this agenda. I have two different papers, of course, tied to the agenda. On one paper is item 4 - Amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, and on the other paper is under the same item 4 - Proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations. It is obvious that the chairman himself is not sure what is on the agenda and what and when we should put in the procedure and represent. People say that smart people learn from other people's mistakes. I expected that Mrs Natasa Micic, taught by the mistakes of the chairman-in-Office Dragan Marsican - at the time he was chairman, then when he asked to be a non-democratic and rigid Rules of Procedure, would primarily be directed against the opposition MPs, mostly against the Serbian Radical Party MPs, and after the experiences when Serbian Radical Party MPs had a lot of problems, were harassed both morally and even physically - to realize that something needed to be done more positive, that they would get more intellectual power and would start acting differently. Obviously, however, it was necessary to change this rules of procedure four or five times, which was not enough again. We expected that the mistakes that had already been made in this congregation would be overcome and would take a different, smarter course. It's obvious we weren't lucky. Only some cosmetic changes of the Rules of Procedure have been made. The Committee on Economic Reforms, for example, is too high, is unnecessary and is inappropriate to the committees that we already have in the Assembly. In the framework of the Privatisation Committee, it is necessary to provide for what is proposed, which is the Committee on Economic Reform, its jurisdiction, and we know that such competence has a particular ministry. This has to do with Serbia's entire policy and economic system. It is certain that we know that there is no economic reform that will achieve economic development. Donations should not be directed towards consumption, but at creating new jobs. Why has the government been acting like this, especially in the last three years? The answer is: it is for the sake of narrow interests and for the provision of party, dossive management of economic life, which is resulting in enormous wealth for controversial businessmen. The government's self-interests greatly overcome the interests of citizens, entrepreneurs and businessmen. In an explanation of the decision-making, the formation of such committees, the entire system is said to be going too quickly through congregation procedure, and without sufficient analysis and consideration. I must tell you that it is not the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party that would go much, much faster, thanks to us, it is possible for other MPs, who have not read the proposed agenda, to have insight into what is happening and how it is happening. It is also said to be essential to form a committee on economic reforms, and to assist representatives of other committees in the work, especially the parent committees. It is obvious that, indirectly, many parent committees do not function in the right and only possible way. Who's to blame you for, in time, three years ago, when the National Assembly was formed, you didn't, proportionally to the forces of the Serbian Radical Party, allow even radicals to participate in the work of those committees, so these parent committees would function much better. But then you didn't have it all in your head, and that, later on, will have its own consequences. It is likely that in the second quarter, again, we will have a change of rules of procedure. The poverty reduction committee is also proposed as a body that should be formed. He's supposed to be the intensity of all the boards. Obviously it's not, because the condition shows that the government is not doing its job. Every ten citizens don't have enough for an apartment or food. So, every tenth citizen has no basis for material existence. One quarter of the entire population barely makes ends meet. During the DOS, economic decomposition and the formation of a wide layer of the very poor population emerged. Serbia has set out to accelerate its descending line towards further poverty and even greater social decomposition. They are citizens who are dissatisfied with the government and are seeking elections. The poor are those who work, and those who do not work and who have lost their jobs, thanks to the three-year reign of DOS, are obviously neither told nor intended to do anything. In the end, the Committee on Gender Equality; the Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly talked about the superiority of women in intellectual, in almost every respect, except in physical strength, but DOS is obviously trying to change some of the powers. I'm guessing DOS is a woman's network. In Jablanic County, there were already two choices, in Medvedja, in Leskovac, where 30% of women had to be. The Serbian Radical Party has a sufficient number of beautiful, smart, intelligent and capable women and only by its work should each woman take her position. We have enough women, and we have shown this in these elections that have passed, and DOS is trying to force, by some law, some changes and that women, who may not deserve to do their work, and that is simply because of the law, have to be on some list. It's obvious that men's equality towards women is needed here. As I can see, there are women at the chair, whether by merit or by some other criteria, they know best, but there's really no reason for men to seek equality with women, but if you continue with this kind of behavior, it'll probably happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30259	The word has a People's MP, Jovan Todorovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30260	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, although there are currently no amendments to the Rules of Procedures on the work of the National Assembly in the room, let me start by saying two or three things. First of all, the promoter, perhaps by accident and by accident, has admitted some of the things the opposition has been insisting on over the past two years and very often speaking in this home. The very suggestion that four other committees be introduced into congregation work is not controversial, but it is questionable why much time should always take place so that we can remember some of the things that we needed to or had to do. Should two and a half years have passed, so we should propose the establishment of a Committee on Economic Reforms, and remember for yourselves that you, as an opposition, as DOS, have announced that as soon as you come to power, we will have economic reforms, the growth of living standards, the growth of economic production, that we will integrate into Europe, that this same Europe and the international community will grant us considerable resources, etc. The fact that two and a half years after you propose the establishment of a Committee on Economic Reform can mean only one thing - that so far there has been no economic reforms, so that only by forming a Committee on Economic Reforms can we expect this authority to enter into some kind of reform, or that reforms, so loudly announced, are in a major crisis and that there is now a need to make an additional impulse through the Assembly board, which would make these reforms clearer, more precise. When you look at the committee's competence, then you see in Article 68a that the Economic Reform Committee is considering plans and programmes for economic development. I ask you where there is a document called a plan and a document called a program of economic development, when it is offered to us in a congregation debate or in a congregation committee. There are no such documents, and this suggests that the government simply did not have a proper strategy in the area and that this proposal actually recognises the fact. The very composition of the board is also controversial. Let someone, as a rewarding question, answer me how many parliamentary groups there are in this congregation. No one knows, and since yesterday or before yesterday, we will not know, most likely, and yet the proposal says that 12 members of the Committee on Economic Reform, which will otherwise be 21 members, are elected by all the Assembly committees, who are in some way engaged in the business of economic reform and social affairs, are delegated one by one, and that in fact nine members of that committee will choose this assembly. It would be natural for each parliamentary group to have one representative, if you are already going in this way to establish a Committee on Economic Reform, which I think is wrong in itself. If it hadn't been for her colleagues, Natasha Milojevic, we wouldn't have known for any reason why the Committee on the Issue of Poverty was formed, because the promoter, by chance or intentionally, said nothing about it in an explanation. So there's no reason to form this board, and it's still being proposed here. It's close to the mind to think that poverty has reached such a level that it's simply more unbearable, it's understood by this congregation majority and now it's trying through that committee to possibly fix something, which can be fixed in this potentially short time, how much DOS will still be in power. Most people know that information. We bring them out shyly behind this pay phone, of course I mean the MPs of the majority. In this country Serbia, 800,000 people have received below 4,500 dinars, and there are another 800,000 under 5,000, which is 1,600,000 people. You have a million people who are unemployed and de facto in a state of poverty, which is 2,600,000 people. The poverty line is down to that height that it is no longer tolerable. The statistics you're propagating in the media are simply not true. It is not true not only because the figures are not true, but because it does not correspond to reality, it starts with the consumer basket, from what is in that basket, from how profits are calculated. Profits are calculated in such a way that only those workers who have received something are accounted for, and those workers who for months, even for years receive nothing, do not enter that so-called. The statistical average can therefore be talked about at least 150, 160, or 170 euros, and you must not forget that the euro increased by only 10% compared to two and a half years ago and that the cost of life increased by more than 100% and that what you call a 170-euro salary today is less than 170 marks in October 2000. It's statistics, because if it wasn't, you wouldn't even be talking about this subject at all, because it's not really a subject that can sound affirmative compared to how the government does its job. Moreover, it is obvious that the government here first has to do some work, to define some strategy in economic reforms, to combat poverty, to combat European integration, and to put it as a document, as a strategy, as something to discuss to the relevant committees. It's been two and a half years, and we don't have such documents. For example, it was only the beginning of this year that we received a fixed document called the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Strategy, which based on a story about the development of our economy, the growth of production, the employment of new people, the creation of new jobs, etc. European integration, first of all, you need to identify who you're going to be with, whether you're from America, whether you're with Europe. May we, as a people, as a Parliament, be able to tell Europe -- as long as you lie to us about the money you promised in 2000. You know they're lying to you. They tell you how fast the reforms are, how it's done right here, just so they don't give you money. So all they do is give no money. In the end, not to waste my time with my colleagues, I just don't understand the need to form this board for so-called. Gender equality. Please, who is preventing our colleagues from actively participating in political or parliamentary life. And that number we have here in the National Assembly, don't mind me, it's not active enough. It's just that sometimes we hear some lady, some colleague of ours coming out for this pay phone, except for the MPs from the opposition, who now has a woman's view of these issues and the suggestions we're considering here. Take, for example, the electoral law that you, as a congregation majority, have adopted. You've determined that 30% of women must be on the list. Why didn't you decide to be 50% or 52%, how do you say we have a total population of women? I don't mind that, but I don't understand why someone should, by some law or some act, put women in an equal position when the Constitution and all the laws so far guarantee that equality fully.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30261	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. The next reported word is MP Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30262	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, unfortunately, and today I have to say that I counted the MP cards before I went out for the pay phone, there are between 75 and 80 of us, coming in and out, so we don't even have a quorum to work with. Sometimes I think we're being attacked by the SARS virus, and then the MPs are running away, but fortunately only in this room. But it's not a non-serious subject, no matter how much you throw, which makes you feel called for this. That's also something about these agenda points. If the Rules of Procedure were different, there would probably be a lot more MPs in the hall, if MPs had the opportunity to work more and participate in the work of the Assembly, there would probably be more MPs in the hall, if there were television transmissions, and there would be a special one-hour show in the evening for all those who can't watch the broadcast. It is a recommendation from the OSCE in these talks that we have had to improve the work of the Serbian Parliament, something that has also been agreed and that we in the DSS expected to be really the subject of changing the Rules of Procedure, not just adding a certain number of committees. Speaking of committees, I have to say that we at the DSS are in favour, you've heard that from previous speakers, for much greater, more efficient work by the Assembly committees. That and that kind of work would help us spend less time in this room, so we probably wouldn't have this kind of situation with an empty O.R. You've heard the data our MPs statistically presented about what committees didn't even meet, who met once or twice or who didn't work at all. I must say, you've heard that information about the DSS on the assembly committees having 16 MPs less than it should have, that the Democratic Party has 12 more than it should have. Since you're throwing away, those stories of yours and those throws of yours are no use to you. You had a theory about Kostunica waiting for the election and then suddenly becoming president and having so much rating. So be it, that's right, that's your theory, but he beat Milosevic. You're in a situation like this and you're doing so badly that we really don't need anything more from the DSS than to cross hands and wait for the election and then you won't be, because your work is the same as riding a bike without a chain - you're spinning around in circles, you're turning around for nothing, you're just making dirt around and you're standing in place, you're not moving anywhere. As for this particular committee work, I'm going to give you information, specifically for the committee I was on and out of, it's the Sports and Youth Committee. The committee was chaired by Mr. Vlad Dobrosavljevic, also from the DSS. Since the two of us have been gone on this committee, that committee has never met once. There's so much about your work on the boards when we're not in them. On the other hand, I expected that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure would be such as to allow all Assembly committees to receive stenograms from the government of the Republic of Serbia's session, so that MPs would be familiar with what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is talking about, what the ministers advocate, and so that we could have a better picture of how to define ourselves according to all the legal projects that the Government is delivering to us. Since there are never any government representatives present, rarely when there are -- there is one minister, or his deputies, assistants, and he goes outside -- I think such stenograms or at least notes from the government's session would be of great help to us in working on congregation committees. We expected it to be a business change, and we from the DSS are going to make something so sure, but we are waiting to see how this agreement will be respected with the OSCE representatives so that by June 30th, we can change the Rules of Procedure precisely in this direction so that, for example, the institution of parliamentary issues, as it should be, exists in all European parliaments, we can return to this Parliament as well. As far as I can see, the only honourable fellow MP and professor Mr Simonovic remains persistent and is asking parliamentary questions in this way as he regulates this Rules of Procedure. The government suits him, we get it in writing in material. But when we have MPs in the European Parliaments, the opportunity for the government to come, at least once a month or once in 15 days, to sit in front of us, from president to all ministers, and to devote a full day's work to having MPs come out for a pay phone, ask them questions, and to answer these questions. It is absolutely normal in democratic countries and democratic parliaments. We hope that the MPs of this House, the MPs of the parliamentary majority, will accept our amendment where we propose that a board of public accounts be introduced. That would contribute to the transparency of the government's work, because we are the ones who need to control the executive power. Therefore, the Committee should also have insight into how the Government spends money, where it spends money, not only the Government, but all that is related to the Government and the budgets, so that we can also identify ourselves in such a way as to work the Government. We really think it's very bad work on committees, that's what the MPs said, that the delivery of material is very late. As MPs, the bill's proposals come 24 hours, 48 hours ahead of the agenda. How do you think the committees themselves, in such a way, make themselves known according to certain drafts of the law. We had a situation that at a time of emergency, we got the draft laws on amendments to the law on Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure. I really don't understand how the MPs on the committees, who pleaded on this, could make such a mistake and accept such changes that are in some elements at the level of Sharia laws or laws that rule in the state of Texas, which is monitored by all international NGOs. Now we're in a situation where poor Justice Minister Mr. Batic has to joke and talk about how we have to get it back, cancel it out. Who's to blame? Is it all of us sitting on these committees who have ever allowed such suggestions to come to the congregation, to help the government if they are sometimes wrong in some of the proposals? That's what we serve here, to make it right and say no, don't say that. Some have tried, but unfortunately, if the opinion comes from both the Legislative Committee and the Justice Committee that it is okay, then what should MPs do in a statement, and it is not even certain whether those opinions have arrived and whether the committees have sat down and pleaded on it at all. It would also be good to have business orders, and there is no such thing as these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, for opposition MPs to be presidents of certain committees. It would help if we had a more transparent insight into the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For example, an opposition MP should be required to be, in this proposal for our amendment, the chairman of the Public Account Committee. In our opinion, there should also be this Committee on Economic Reform, which is proposed. We have already heard that there is nothing since economic reforms, since the state of our economy can only be described in one word - disaster. The president of the Security Committee should also be of opposition order. As for the Committee on Gender Equality, I fully support it. I don't agree with those male MPs who talked to the position that, say, women are completely equal. They probably are, I think they are. That's my opinion. I would also suggest that the president of that committee, I don't know if it's possible to be constitutional, but to make a gentleman's agreement that the president of that committee be a man. It seems to me, however, that women in Serbia are not unequal to men. Whoever comes to Serbia or the city of Belgrade from abroad, walks the streets of our city, delights in the beauty of our women, elegance, and says it is nowhere on the planet. If we men were bad towards women in Serbia, they certainly wouldn't be so beautiful and elegant. As a result, perhaps from that point of view, men in Serbia may indeed be less equal. However, I am in favour of being fully equal, and therefore I advocate that we also accept this committee, introduce, along with another suggestion, that it should not be bad, because I expect that more women will be proposed to this committee of MPs, that the president be a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30263	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. The remaining time of the SRS parliamentary group is four minutes. The next reported word is MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's no need for us from the opposition to be ashamed of you, for putting these things on the agenda for this country at a time like this. You put on the agenda the formation of a board of business, and we don't have a minister of economy, he's a minister of economy and privatisation and he's only engaged in the sale of the Serbian economy. Tell me one of the factories he trained to work better or build a new one. There's no such thing. He's just dealing with the sale of the Serbian economy. Citizens expected the privatisation that when the minister sold ten factories, he built at least three or five new factories, so that those people who lost their jobs employed those new factories. But that's not happening. What does this mean to you - the Committee on European Integration? It's just a compromise of all the institutions in this society. Remember what the Prime Minister said - the governor of the print fake bills, so the next day he shows up on a small screen and says, "I was fucking around." The next day, on the show "It's not Serbian to shut up," he says -- some woman called my wife and introduced herself as a school friend, and my wife said -- that you weren't ashamed, my son didn't go to school and he didn't have school friends. (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. ) The topic is the Committee on European Integration. What now, someone who runs that board and who runs this job, will come out tomorrow and tell us a new joke or a joke and they'll say, "I have good news and bad news." It's good that I left the drugs, and it's bad that I don't know where. Now we're gonna discuss where he lost his drugs? Who will lead this committee, and who is running this portfolio for European integration in this country? Is this committee managed by chance by Vice President Cedomir Jovanovic? It really doesn't make sense anymore. The Committee on Poverty Reduction; well, since you came to power, you should have formed the first day of the Committee on the Export of Poverty, because poverty has become an integral part of your work. Ever since you got here, everyone's been up three times. Our ministers tell us that the consumer basket has become a cat's cough for our salaries. Who today's salary can fill a consumer basket? Maybe you DOS, because you all have two or three boards where you charge two or three personal incomes, based on membership on the board of directors. The Economic Reform Committee; what have you done with a factory in southern Serbia? There's Mr. Soldatovic. In the best wood industry in southern Serbia, you introduced temporary measures and set up an imperfect law student for the chairman of the board of directors, and as director of a man who was expelled from the factory five years ago for malfeasance. What does an imperfect law student understand about running an export-oriented factory? If these are the expert moves of this government, all of your faith. Gender equality; well, the best picture is behind me: there are three ladies and one gentleman. Who's indifferent here? The president of the assembly told us yesterday that he received more of them during the day. She even told us that yesterday afternoon she received a Japanese or an ambassador to Japan. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time, and you have missed the topic. We see in the evening news shows that you received that old Soros, the enemy of Serbia and the Serbian people. You should have put it to declare that this person is forbidden access to this country, which wants to tear our country apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30265	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic. The next person to be declared is MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Presidency, if the motion for this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia pleads for its democracy, these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of Water, above all, could be expected to remove the restrictiveness and rigidity of certain provisions, i.e. a large number of provisions of the current Rules of Procedure, since we know that, on four occasions, since the arrival of DOS to power, we have changed the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. However, the promoter decided to re-rescind a tiny marketing move, and a policy move could be said by a proposal to set up four new committees. Of course, the proposal is legitimate and the very content of the affairs these committees should be dealing with is not controversial. But contradictions continue, given that it is very indicative that the Committee on Economic Reform and its establishment is proposing after two and a half years of government, and therefore by delegation from 12 already existing committees. This is very indicative, and I do not see that it will contribute to some development of economic reforms in the state of Serbia. Of course, the poverty reduction committee is likely to be in line with the establishment of this Committee on Economic Reform, since your economic reforms are only increasing poverty in the state of Serbia and the national economic system is being demoted. As far as the Committee on European Integration is concerned, we of the SPS are very interested that, if you set up these committees, after the establishment of the Committee on European Integration, that committee should give its view of the proposed lustration law and provide the Serbian Parliament with parallel analysis of the relationship between the small charter and the human rights protection standards prescribed by the Council of Europe, to which we have otherwise approached, if you remember. Of course, the proposed provisions of the lustration law, that's the next item of the agenda, but I have to say, the law allegedly protecting human rights is breaking those human rights over and over again. As for the Committee on Gender Equality, of course, gender equality has long been accepted in Serbian society as a civilizational fluid, it is incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the legislators are obliged to take this principle of gender equality, to take into account it practically when writing the law and to see no reason for giving some particular weight of gender equality that already exists. In doing so, I don't want this to be interpreted as some sexist act, but it's simply a marketing move and it won't bring anything new. Of course, the promoter was probably led by an already established policy, that when they can't or can't do something, they're not people to do it, they're forming a committee, a commission, an agency, so now there are 25 committees, with these four, they'd have 29 committees. It is certain that the quantity will not bring the quality of the work of the Assembly committees and unfortunately becomes a constant in this government the fact that the executive power assumes all the powers of the legislative and large part of the judicial authority and, unfortunately, the quality of the work of the Committee of the Republic of Serbia remains only a peripheral issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30267	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, the DSS parliamentary group and the next declared for the word, in fact the last reported for the word is MP Joca Arsic, the SPS parliamentary group, call him from the board if he wants to participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30268	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no doubt this is one of the steps and it should lead to a better Rules of Procedure than the one we currently have. Namely, I do not belong to those people who will say that parliamentary practice must be cooked and must be hermetized in any way. I do not believe that parliamentary experience and that contemporary political experience does not involve changes and adjustments in the given circumstances when it comes to the need. The fact that several times during the term of office, this is called by the Assembly, a changed Rules of Procedure, is evidence that in Serbia it is still looking for the right solutions, that Serbia still lacks adequate answers in its political and parliamentary system to bring down its political relations. The guilt here is common and should not run away from it, but it is also a good reason, because modern political democracy, among other things, involves constantly reviewing and pointing to its own mistakes if there are. The committees themselves, the very idea of creating assembly committees in parliamentary practices, implies, above all, the creation of effective forms that will allow the plenary sessions themselves to not last indefinitely and to be as effective as possible. Parliamentary committees should deal with government control, control of the executive authority in the segment for which they are in charge, so according to those ministries that cover, and on the other hand, to search certain legal solutions whenever an opportunity arises. However, it is also a fact that the parliamentary committees in our Serbian practice today and here are neither adequately formed nor resolved. The fact is, we'll probably have 29 assembly committees on these four boards, whose efficiency is not at an envious level. The fact is also that in the tradition of other Western-European countries, committees usually cover to a greater or lesser extent the number of ministries these countries have. Of course, nobody's crazy, so they won't say that if there's a need for it, we shouldn't have as many ministries as possible. But the real measure of all things is whether they have a purpose, whether they are effective enough. A few things that exist in all of this can help. It is necessary, however, that, throughout the process of adopting some legislative text, certain parliamentary committees, which are responsible for monitoring the normative activity in this area, have the opportunity to see into all the working versions of this text, so that in one more appropriate, much more direct way they participate in Parliament's work and create the legislative proposal itself, and thus to encourage a legislative initiative in bodies that actually have that essence to pass laws. In fact, we have the practice that the government is the one who can only create, so there are legal proposals left. On the other hand, it has completely forgotten the fact that parliament is called a legislative body and that the essence of it has divided the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial precisely that MPs themselves, the parliamentary groups themselves, are taking as much action as possible to create certain legislative proposals. The next thing that would be necessary is the public of work. The public of the work, not only in the plenary session, we have now lost it because of the lack of television transmissions, and I will repeat one of the views, and I have made it several times with this speech: young democracies, as this is now in Serbia, and we are trying to form it, must repeat all lessons that parliamentary states have passed through the centuries and literally...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30269	People's MP, I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. You had three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30270	Excuse me, just a minute, I'll try to speed things up, because I have three minutes left...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30271	You've already gone over a minute and 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30272	Therefore, it is necessary to introduce as many public segments as possible in the work of the Committee itself and to give the opportunity to engage as much as possible independent experts or organise round tables on individual issues concerning strategies and the adoption of legal solutions before they come to the session itself. Very briefly, just a few more words about the committees that are being established...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30273	I'm sorry, you've been over two minutes, thank you. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30274	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When it came to the fact that the Rules of Procedure had to be made, I expected that there would be amendments in the Rules of Procedure that were in line with what happened and with the Constitutional Court's decision, where MPs were told to have their mandates, and in the Rules of Procedure the right to speak and to submit amendments to the parliamentary groups. I expected that in this sense there would be an amendment to the Rules of Procedure, to allow each MP to submit the amendment as previously governed by the Rules of Procedure, because if he has the mandate to have his time in the Assembly, he may also have the right to submit amendments, laws and certain proposals and decisions under the Rules of Procedure so that it would be in agreement with the latest interpretation of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. This proposal provides for a new four committees. My colleagues said a lot about reasons not to support such a proposal to expand the number of committees. I'm just going to remind you that at the OSCE sessions, we had a recommendation from the OSCE that there should be a reduction in the number of committees in the Assembly and that individual committees should be united. In this way, allow for more effective committee work and more efficient work in the Assembly, and that committees should play a more significant role and place in the debate itself and in the very adoption of laws, proposals and decisions in the Assembly. It was said that certain things should be changed in the sense that the government of the Republic of Serbia should be placed under greater control, so that it should not be as it is now, the government's service, but that it has constant control of the government, and the government itself is obliged to answer parliamentary questions at least once every two weeks, in such a way as to control the government, not to have the government in control of parliament's work. Also, our parliamentary group has come out with the amendment that we should, not choose these committees, but choose a committee for demographic development. I think that this committee is necessary and that this assembly would benefit more from the work of that committee than these committees, and that these powers provided for by these committees are established in the competence of the committees already in place in the Assembly and that the possibility of the number of committees being agreed with the number of ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia would be better at the proper communication between the Assembly, the Government and the Assembly Committees. What's important is that this rules of procedure, which has been changed several times, puts us under notice from some MPs, and I think that their merit and change have introduced far more restrictive relations than any of the rules of procedure brought in this assembly. I was talking about reducing time to the MPs for debate and not having to the end defined the rights and obligations of MPs, much is left to the so-called. the discretionary right of the chairman. I think the more precise addition of the Rules of Procedure, it seems to me that at the meetings we had with the OSCE, we said that by the end of May we should be able to come out with the proposal, and at the beginning of the autumn session, we should be able to look at the rules of procedure and make a new proposal for the Rules of Procedure, and with such rules continue to operate this assembly. This was one of the conclusions of the Administrative Committee, when we adopted certain amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, it was concluded that the working group of all parliamentary parties would make a proposal for a quality, efficient and good Rules of Procedure, and in order to achieve a better and more correct work of Members in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30275	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, are applying for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30276	Dear MPs, I hope there are no MPs in this room, no opposition, no position that disagrees that the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure should be changed. I think we all agree on that. Only, of course, we disagree on what needs to be changed in this Rules of Procedure. Since the day of the work of this National Assembly and of the first Rules of Procedure adopted by this assembly, all the Rules of Procedures that went here for consideration and have actually been adopted by a line of factual reductions in the rights of MPs in the National Assembly. I hope that MPs in the National Assembly will understand one moment, whether they are MPs of position or opposition, that they should fight for their rights in the Parliament itself, more specifically, to fight for the rights of MPs both in committees and in the Serbian Parliament. That is why I am surprised that in today's and yesterday's debate on the very rules of procedure on this change, when it comes to new committees, there are no demands to make a radical change to this Rules of Procedure, in order to enable MPs to return those rights that the MPs in this Serbian Parliament had. Of course, if it is not in this mandate, it is possible and I hope that in the next one, but if this kind of dynamic change of rules of procedure would be to the detriment of MPs, then probably MPs in this assembly would have their democratic rights at the time of the SPS government sometime in 2008 to 2010. Now, not to exaggerate, you usually say, the old regime, so you're saying it, etc., but I need to remind you of some democratic rights that have been taken away by all changes so far. There were words about him today, and that's the right to a parliamentary question. The way MPs are now being treated is in fact the right of MPs to ask parliamentary questions has been lifted. It is one of the most important democratic rights of one MP to ask the government and the state bodies of the Republic in the Assembly in which he is sitting. That question and that right of MPs has been absolutely abolished. The second right is to speak. The right to speak, of course, was reduced to having the right minute and 12 seconds to speak. In a minute and 12 seconds, there's no right to say anything, and what you're going to say is that the MP group has so many rights, so instead of 30 MPs who, for example, count, say four or five, or if it counts 25, say three or four, that's no democratic right. These MPs, the rest, are not able to explain to their citizens that they cannot speak, but citizens think they will not speak because they do not want to be represented. Then how are they going to fight tomorrow for the trust of these citizens? So, you're starting to put these MPs in a position that they can't properly respond to the obligations they have in front of citizens and fight for their rights, rather than delegate it to a parliamentary group. This is not possible to pass on to the parliamentary group, given the decision of the Constitutional Court by which the MP is a representative of the citizens. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure are today practically counter-constitutional, as it speaks of the right of the parliamentary group to have time to speak, and on the other hand, the Constitutional Court says the MP is a representative of the citizens. If the MP is a representative of the citizens, then the MP has an obligation to speak here and he can be limited to the right to speak, not to the parliamentary group. Therefore, I ask you to amend this Rules of Procedure which is not in accordance with the Constitution, in line with the Constitution and allow the MP to speak here and to represent the citizens of Serbia. If you don't change that, then it doesn't matter how many committees we're going to have here, 10, 20, 30, 50, you can have as much as you want. You can't say this is an advocate for opposition. This is a pledge for the right of MPs and for respect for constitutional law, here is the Constitutional Court's decision on the right of MPs to represent citizens of Serbia. I ask that we act rationally when we talk about amending the Rules of Procedure and that on some issues, when it comes to the right of MPs, we try to be, whether they were positional or opposition MPs, unique about the rights and defence of MPs and the rights of citizens to have their own representative in the Serbian Parliament. Of course, there is also a question of amendments. This is about the same MPs, name and last name. This assembly was submitted by 4,000 amendments to the policy law, and only one parliamentary group -- the DS parliamentary group tabled 1,800 amendments. There's Mr. Panajotovic, so he can confirm it and it's certain he remembers it. Now these same MPs, the same by name and last name, are restricting the right not to an MP, but to a parliamentary group to be able to submit amendments. That's unconstitutional. If the MP is a source of legitimacy, he represents citizens of Serbia here, not a parliamentary group, it can be limited to the right of the MP to have one amendment per member, not a parliamentary group. I ask the MP's majority to propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, because you have legalized the theft of your mandate. If you have legalized this, legalize then and all that, including the right of MPs in the Serbian Parliament, according to the Constitutional Court's decision that he is a representative of the citizens and that he - an MP - has the right to speak as an individual, that he has the right to submit amendments as an individual, not as a parliamentary group. These are just some questions that have been present for two, two, and a half years. These are the rights that have been seized for two and a half years by the MPs. Now we want to accept some of the OSCE's proposals by introducing the new four committees. We can introduce 24 other committees, besides existing ones, if MPs do not have the opportunity to defend their amendments, if they do not have the right to discuss here, if Serbian citizens do not have the right to see what MPs are saying here. I already said once, our sessions at the National Assembly of Serbia are secret dinners. I resent that. It is obvious that Serbian citizens do not know when the assembly sessions are held. Feel free to do a survey on it and you'll see for yourself. Citizens don't know it's an ambush assembly. The citizens are no longer interested, nor are they interested in any laws. The parliamentary majority may think it suits her right now. We thought the same thing for a few months when we shut down the direct television broadcast of the Assembly, so it cost us a lot of money. It'll cost you a lot more. But that's not what this is about. Why do you hide what the MPs here say and what are you saying here? What are you doing this for? What is the intention of all this? Now I would return to the matter of work, education and all that is about committees. In particular, I would like to highlight here a committee that discusses how MPs are elected to committees. It is impossible for the board to choose differently from the proportion of MPs in the National Assembly of Serbia. No members of the board may be elected as representatives of other committees. How can he do that? This would mean that we first select members of a committee, and then these board members are elected by members of a third committee. (Milisav Petkovic, from the post: So it was with you, when you were in power. That's how it's never been with us. The board never picked a board. That could've been you when you picked that 65-year-old uncle for the president of the youth. I begged you not to, because a man is 65 years old and how to be president of youth. He can be a good grandfather. I told you to be president of youth, not a 65-year-old uncle, but it wasn't worth it. You're stuck and your uncle had to be the president of the youth in the village. I told you to pick him and I don't care. That might have been the way it was then. I let you. But now it's not possible. You can do anything, but it's not possible. It's not normal, it's not rational, it's not smart. (Milisav Petkovic, from the scene: How old did you say he was? I said he was about 65-66 years old. It's better that you didn't propose that these 12 boards be elected by 12 members than that the government chooses the board members nicely. Why didn't the government choose board members? We can now write in the Rules of Procedure that the government chooses these board members. Let the government run that committee. By the same principle, you've created the Constitutional Commission. Let the government lead the board, let it lead everything, represent the MPs, represent the Serbian Parliament. Well, that would be fair then, so we wouldn't go crazy here about who's gonna pick who and how to choose. That's not good. This isn't about opposition. This is about not being able to do it like that. It's not the election law of the board. That's how the board can't be built. Of course, everything can be written, but that's not possible. Dragoljub Stamenkovic, from the scene: Did you change that uncle? I didn't replace him, the man died, he was many years old. Yeah, he was a 65-year-old kid. I told you to be president (to Milisav Petkovic) because you're 27 years old, but no, you're stuck how good your uncle is. This is how it was: he said that if they were able to plant some greenery together, it was some pines, trees, etc., they might as well be the president of the youth. I didn't want to convince him anymore. If he's good to him, he's good to me too. I was president of Serbia's youth, and that's why I voted for that Radinovic. We'll talk about it later. We need to discuss this first. So this isn't about whether three or four new committees should be formed. This is about how board members are elected. Here is no problem forming, education these four committees. Let us accept everything the OSCE proposes. The OSCE proposes a public transfer. The OSCE says it takes 17 committees, not 35. You only want to accept part of what the OSCE is proposing, which is why you've suggested the formation of a new four committee. No, let's cancel all these committees and make 17 committees, just like the OSCE is asking. We support it. Let those 17 be these four committees, which is now proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30277	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30278	I'm just finishing up. We're forming some committees, like we want from Europe. You've criticised us most about how we wanted something from Europe, and we don't want everything. You want to go to the Council of Europe, we want to join the European Union together, and we only want to accept what suits us when it comes to the committee. Please propose a new Rules of Procedure that will be rational, in line with European standards and for the benefit of positions and opposition, but also for Serbia's benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30279	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke. (More MPs, from the place: it's time for lunch.) What difference does it make? I suggest we finish work on this agenda point, so we can make one whole. Where does it say we have to stop work at 1400 hours? It doesn't say anything. After that, you'll get an hour's break. Can I get you a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that everyone wants to join the committees, but few want to work in the sittings themselves. As the National Assembly, we have transferred our sovereignty to congregation committees for more effective work of the National Assembly. It's the only purpose of the board's existence. The reduction in the number of committees, in a way, would lead to more effective work and committees and the Assembly, because it is really possible to unite, within one committee, work on several issues. Yesterday, in the principle debate, I said it was common for committees to monitor the work of existing ministries, with the need for there to be both the Administrative Committee, and the Justice Committee, and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, some decisions made by our committees, and they are very often anti-constitutional and anti-businessal, this congregation does not have the opportunity to cancel. If we wanted to deal seriously with the Rules of Procedure, if that is what the Proposer wanted, if we wanted to seriously change what was wrong with the Rules of Procedure, we should have dealt with these issues as well. For example, the Legislative Committee has failed to establish that the Government does not have the possibility to submit amendments before voting in particular, is deafened by that fact, and we can simply apologise it here. It used to be about the violations of the Rules of Procedure, too, to be declared by this assembly. So the MPs could have said whether the Rules of Procedure was hurt or not. Now it's the discretionary right of the President of the Assembly. When you ask the Administrative Committee to make a statement on this issue, the answer is that no injury has been done, for example, by that member who gives these discretionary rights to the President of the Assembly. Namely, the president of the National Assembly of Serbia has discretionary authority to place measures on the MPs, in accordance with the article, when holding the order at the assembly session. 101-108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are powerless here, though perhaps most think differently. So we are in the position of the board, and it is not a committee in the function of the National Assembly and us 250 MPs. Here someone spoke of the need for the existence of this proposed committee, which should ensure gender equality, introducing a term of gender equality. I'd just like to say about that expression that God wanted us to be exactly the same as he would have made us different, but if he had made us so, if we were all the same, there would be no more people on this planet. Thus, he bornly defined us to be different, and that diversity makes us complete. As far as the law and the Constitution are concerned, they are the ones who need to protect our equality and, as far as I am aware of the newest Charter of Human Rights and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we are equal. There's a woman who says she's a real estate owner. You know, it's a little bit of a consequence of probably our ordinary right. We're all the same before the law, let's say the Legacy Act, and no one can take away my right to accept my inheritance, but when I come to court, when I consider the legacy, if I have a brother, I give up my share of inheritance for my brother's sake, because that's how it was for us in Serbia. That's not why I'm unequal. On the contrary, I was invited to accept it, and I am completely equal with my brother, but I believe, even if I didn't, that's what his father should do. We're twisting some facts here, talking about a Europe, not knowing where we live, who we are, what we are and where we get roots from. We have to turn to ourselves. I don't need us to lock ourselves in a shell so nothing on the outside can come, but anything that comes out can't be better than we do. They also say that the United Nations has a strategy to fight poverty and especially in Africa and the Asian countries, and we have also had the opportunity to feel, as do these Asian and African countries, how the United Nations and those who are in charge of the United Nations are implementing this strategy. They bomb you first, and then they send you humanitarian aid and that's the strategy to fight poverty. What are we talking about here? Don't twist the facts, just call the right things by the right name. It is known that globalisation is at stake. It's not made up by America. That's the way it was in the states. Since the Roman era, and so on, some world power has always wanted to put everything under its hat, so now this force is America, and if we don't all stand up to it, of course, it will take a lot longer than it should. All these forces have failed, so America will fail, and so I recommend that everyone not swear much to it. In light of the latest decision of the Constitutional Court, it would be really correct for the motion to withdraw this proposal. Mr. Pitiæ, I think this motion should be withdrawn and the Rules of Procedure settled in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. If the MP is the owner of his mandate, although I think this is the Constitutional Court's political decision, but if he has so decided, if he is the MP of his mandate, then he has much more rights than he has been given to the Rules of Procedure, in the sense that he can submit amendments to all members of the law or any proposal of any act that comes to the Assembly, that he can speak, perhaps in some limited time, but we always advocate unlimited time, but don't tie him up in such a way to the parliamentary group. It will not break the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Whatever you make up, if you give us five minutes, 23 of us will talk in those five minutes. We've shown you that we can do that. We can adapt to all repressive conditions, but that's not good. It doesn't lead to anything. Just because someone humiliates me in this congregation, so give me three minutes so I can speak or give me a minute, because I want to give my other colleagues a chance, he didn't humiliate me. He humiliated those voters behind me, and we all file the bills to those voters. Nobody seems to care about that anymore, because they think there's no public service, no television transmissions, and no offense to my dear colleagues, about that first sentence that you all want to go to committees, that's where you all want to talk, to work, and you have some compensation for that work. In the Assembly, the parliamentary majority will not work. Whether or not there's no one, that's the question now, but I'm afraid that you don't want to show how much anyone can talk about what's the subject of the debate here, because I don't believe that anyone would stop you from going out and at least in a few sentences you say affirmably, I'm not asking you to criticise and it's not to expect, but to say that you know the essence. I don't have a chance, but here I am challenging each of you to any television duel under any law that has passed this congregation procedure. Here, this is as fresh as we've been doing in the last three days and you can't talk much, because you haven't even read it and you haven't been following the debate at all. Here's how many MPs there are here, and the chairman insists that I speak. I will speak, let only the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party sit here. I'm only talking here for this here and for nothing more. Whoever wants to listen will and who doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30281	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30282	I will find a way to say everything I think and to those who want to hear the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30283	Since there are no more statements to be made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I ask if the motionary wants the final word? He doesn't want to. ) I conclude a unique review of the proposal for a decision. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LJUDE RIGHTS REFERENCE LJUDE (principles) I would like to ask representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit a list of those declared for this item of the agenda to the secretary, in order to make a list during the break. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure's original search and I am asking the representatives in the course of the break to deliver the list in order to have the list in the afternoon part of the session prepared. [[After break - 15.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I understand we have a quorum to work with. In the morning part of the session, I opened a principle search on the 5th agenda - Proposal for a Law on Liability for Human Rights Violation, submitted by MPs Ivan Andrić, Vlasimir Budimović, Dr Milos Lučić, Ljubisa Kesic, Melank Shandor, Sima Radulović, Prof. Dr. Mirko Rosic, Prof. Dr. Dragor Hiber and Natasa Micic. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee. Parliamentarians Petar Cvetkovic and Slobodan Adzic singled out the opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee. I ask if the word of the Proposer's representative, MP Ivan Andric, wants it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30285	Dear Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill of responsibility for human rights violations. That law has its own synonym, it's a lustration law. At first, I would say that this law has been passed by all the countries that have been under non-democratic or totalitarian regimes in the past. All the countries in the environment, which are post-Communist countries, have also passed this law. The new democratic authorities of these countries were primarily asked by citizens of those countries, who no longer wanted to live in the countries of totalitarianism, collectiveism, in countries where there is no rule of law and there is no freedom. I would also remind you that this law, or this idea, is one of our basic pre-election promises. The law also represents the essence of the Civil League of Serbia programme, a party that is formally and proposing the law. Three years ago, we were given a mandate from Serbian citizens to change the country's system. We can change this system if we bring new foundations on which the new democratic system, the system of freedom, will rest. I'll remind you of something we promised. These four laws, the four foundations of democracy, are: the law on denationalisation or the return of kidnapped property; the law on privatisation - the law on which no one's property will be sold, of which the citizens did not have or had very little benefit; the third law on lustration, which is on the agenda today; the fourth law on rehabilitation, that is the law where the victims of those who will be lustrated would be, in a certain way, satisfied and would receive satisfaction. Today I will not talk about the concrete solutions that this law implies. That is and should be the subject of a congregation debate that will follow the amendments you have submitted. Furthermore, I will not talk today about those among you who advocate any kind of collectiveism, about the fact that in one country the laws do not apply to all or that they do not apply to all, to those who are nostalgically oblivious to the past. You, among you, will vote against this law anyway. But I'm going to talk about two arguments that appear in public by critics of the lustration law. The first argument that we would draw attention to is the the thesis that this law represents rematchism or revenge. I'm going to say the opposite today. The law on lustration is, in fact, the negation of rematchism or revenge. This, in our opinion, means that revenge can exist where individuals from power or authority in general violate the rights of individuals or groups of individuals who are citizens of the country, without being able to respond to such a breach or to be protected from such a violation. This law is a negation of revenge, precisely because it provides for a precise procedure -- clear procedure, institution, restriction and the right to appeal for those who will be subject to this law. On the other hand, rematchism or revenge would mean that this law applies only to the leaders of the former regime. We today argue another thing, which is contrary to the generally accepted attitude: this law applies first of all to representatives of the new government. Neither Mira Markovic nor Milovan Bojic nor Milorad Vucelic will be subject to this law. This law will, above all, be subject to the president of the Natasa Micic Assembly, Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, all ministers, ministerial assistants, municipal presidents, judges and we -- us 250 MPs of the Republic Assembly. This law applies to us, and that is why it is pointless to talk about rematchism. Another argument that lustration critics use is that we don't need to chat a lot about the past and we need to move into the future without clearing up with the past. And this argument is also wrong and cannot take us further into the democratisation of society. Without a clear face of the past, the future of this country will not exist. I will remind you that the communist regime has completely ignored the crimes committed between 1941 and 1946; it then ignores all the crimes that their representatives later committed. That's exactly what led to these crimes being the motive of some new crimes after 40 years. So if we're responsible people, we have to face the past for the future. Also, this law is inapplicable without its mate, another law that will be found very quickly in the procedure: it is the law on opening the file. The essence of the law pair, i.e. the essence of the law on opening files, is that the political files, which exist in the police, are removed physically from the State Security Service, from the police and other intelligence services and are placed under the control of an independent institution. In the end, I'd like to say that this law is a model of soft lustration. We suggested this model given that in our country human rights were not violated, in which they were violated in some other communist countries. In this decision and in this opinion we are still standing. I am convinced that this parliament will find the democratic potential to adopt such a bill. However, unless this parliament adopts this law, I am sure that some new assembly of parliament will adopt a different law on lustration, which will be much more radical and firmer, because we cannot escape from the past and must not hide from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30286	I would like to thank the rapporteur's representative. I'm asking if they want the word of the committee's informants. There's no sign-ins. ) You want according to the Rules of Procedure, here you are, the folk letter Gordana Pop-Lazic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although we could conclude from the presentation of the proposal's representative that this law allegedly has no feedback, we have a report from the Committee on Justice and Administration, and I therefore advertise Article 132 which specifies what the bill must contain. Because of my business obligation to read this article of the law, I'll take up valuable time for you, but I have to do it, because the Administrative Board will not declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure, unless whoever asks for it has read and listed a member of the Rules of Procedure who is advertised. "The approved legislator submits a bill in the form in which the law is passed, with an explanation. The reasoning must contain the constitutional basis, the reasons for the adoption of the law, the explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions, the assessment of the amount of financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law, the general interest for which a return fact is proposed, if the draft law contains provisions which provide for a feedback and review of the provisions of the laws to be amended, or supplemented, if the law on amendments is proposed. "Article 133: "The bill, which is addressed to the National Assembly, president of the National Assembly, immediately upon reception, delivers to the MPs, the committees responsible and the Government, if it is not the proposer. If the draft law is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will ask the proposer to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, detailing what this non-compliance is. If the legislator fails to comply with the provisions of Article 3, the draft law shall be deemed to be withdrawn. "The report by the Committee on Justice and Administration says that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 4. Proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations. In view of the fact that this bill does not have its constituent element, the general interest proposed by the feedback, I believe that circumstances have arisen regarding Article 133. The Rules of Procedure and that this bill had to be withdrawn, i.e. the president of the National Assembly had to ask, above all, the proponents to arrange it, so if he didn't arrange it, that he was considered to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30288	You've advertised Article 132's injury. In a report by the Justice Committee, it makes it clear that the proposing representative believes that there is no feedback on this law. Therefore, he did not even provide an explanation for this and does not exist. If there is something controversial, we can ask the Committee to make a statement, that the Assembly finally declares whether it is necessary to decide whether this law has a feedback or not. I'm telling you, the motionary's representative does not foresee the feedback of this law; point. Before I give my word to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, do the MPs who issued an opinion at the Committee's meetings want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to debate according to applications for the word of representatives of the parliamentary groups. First, MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group, then MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, then MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30289	Dear fellow MPs, the SPS parliamentary group will not support the law on lustration, they will vote against this law, as it is a couple of edgecellence political laws, an act of revenge directed against political opponents, to eliminate people, under the form of human rights protection, and in fact with the obvious intention of violating human rights, without the court's decision, with the aim of preventing opposition representatives from participating in elections and public life. The SPS estimates that this law is without constitutional basis, contrary to the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, contrary to the provisions of Criminal Law. The law introduces, after decades and more, a new kind of moral-political resemblance, as a basic criterion for political and other activity. The law establishes a commission, a body that was not in the legal system, nor does the legal system know it, with powers that the judicial authority has, and the judicial authority is not, with the composition of a commission that is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This law introduces a presumption of guilt, not innocence. He is a retroactive character, has a selective approach, because it does not matter who violated human rights in Serbia, but is determined only by people who are running for participation in public life. It's an essential way to prevent people from participating in the election. Finally, this law should establish the alleged responsibility of certain people based on checks in state security files, which otherwise do not have the character of the public document and which are incomplete and, according to one fellow MP, have been polluted and certainly in the past two and a half years not only deleted, written, but have been completely destroyed. Dear colleagues, the essence of this law is the elimination of political opponents from public life and from the elections, without a court decision, based on insinuations and subjective statements by alleged witnesses, especially without citizens' opinions in the elections. This intention is clearly seen from the reasoning of the law, where it says that the lustration of certain times is removed from different public functions by people who ordered human rights violations in non-democratic regimes. This is where the countries are listed as Poland, the Czech Republic, East Germany, Bulgaria, etc. Like it or not, as well as those who will support this law, Yugoslavia and Serbia have never been able to do so, and today they cannot compare with these countries and the totalitarian regimes that existed. There was no democracy and multilateral elections until the fall of the Berlin Wall and the departure of Russian tanks. In our past decade, since the multi-party system was introduced, there have been 15 or 16 different types of choices in which it participated and which were recognised by the opposition at the time, and the current government. The opposition then held local self-government, since 1992, in some cities continuously, and in 1996, almost a third of Serbia's cities and municipalities. It will be interesting to hear and see whether the people who worked in these municipalities fall under the provisions of this law, knowing what they were doing: calling for civil disobedience, scrutinising people, in various ways violating human rights, and today the leaders of DOS and representatives of government are prominent. There is no constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Article 73, paragraph 2, to which the motionor is called, refers to the type of act, not its content, as shown by the law, since the content in the law is deeply contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I mean members 11, 13 and 23 who regulate freedoms, rights and duties of man and citizen. I think it is necessary to quote this particular article 23, which says: "No one can be punished for the act that, before it was done, was not intended by law or regulation based on the law as a criminal offence, nor can it be punished for which it was not intended. Criminal acts and sanctions for perpetrators can only be laid down by law. No one can be found guilty of a crime until it is determined by a judicial decision." By a court decision, not by some three-member commission and by the question of what else. The law is also contrary to the provisions of the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties and Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. which speak of judicial protection as the obligation of the State. I think it's worth mentioning those members. The law is contrary to Article 17. A charter that speaks of the right, or to a fair trial. Here, let me quote only the first two positions: "Every one is guaranteed equal protection of the right to proceedings before courts, other state authorities and public authorities. Everyone has the right to rule without delay on his rights, obligations, and charges against him by an independent, impartial and legally established court. Court decisions are made publicly, and court proceedings are public, except in cases of a certain law." So the court and only the court. The law is contrary to Article 18, as well as to Article 19, who also says: "Every one is innocent until his guilt is determined by the court's judicial decision." The law is opposite to Article 20, as well as Article 57, which says that the level of human rights cannot be reduced. The law is also contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, particularly Articles 9, 10 and 16. I must say that this law is contrary to the provisions of the Basic Criminal Code, Articles 3, 5 and 66. I quote Article 66, which states: "The Court may prohibit the perpetrator of a criminal offence from carrying out a particular service, calling or acting on his own, all or some other duties related to the availability, use, management or handling of state or social property or for the preservation of that property, if the perpetrator has misused his or her position, exercise of activity or duty in order to carry out a criminal offence or if it can reasonably be considered as dangerous to carry out such activity." But only the court. This law establishes a body that did not exist in the administrative order, nor does the country's legal system know it. This body, the commission, this law gives it the authority to prevent people from performing public functions. The composition of the commission is deeply contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Judges. When it comes to the Constitution, Article 126, paragraph 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another public function or professional action, and this proposal provides for it. When it comes to the commission's work, it is unacceptable for the Commission to take into account State Security documentation, and the question is what quality these documents are, without a court ruling on the fate of people. In fact, the law here provides that the Commission is working on the basis of records, and I said, two and a half years after October 5th, we know what happened on October 5th, so we say, the question is, what is the fate of all these documents, how valid these documents are, how accurate information is. After all, people who are a little more understanding of these things and who have talked about this problem say that they would also get information about the work of the State Security are objectively violating human rights, so those who obtained that information violated human rights. Since there's going to be a lot more words in this law later, in this first report, I'm going to say just one more thing. If the law is passed, then the object of lustration, first of all, will only be members of the DOS because of everything they've done. Here's why I say it. It is indisputable that the government of the Republic of Serbia suspended local self-government in over 30 municipalities, introduced forced administrations and thus violated basic human rights, which is the right for a man to choose and be elected. The court files will also prove irrefutable that the Supreme Court has annulled one of those decisions in the case of Priboj and thus found a direct violation of human rights by the government of the Republic of Serbia. If the law is consistently applied, none of the members of the government will be able to be in public office. Example two, violation of the human rights of members and supporters of the SPS in the period after 5 October. In the spring of 2001, we drew up documentation, sent it to the OSCE as a drastic example of human rights violations of members and supporters of the SPS. I'm not going to bother you here, but trust me, there's a lot of information with names and last names and perpetrators of those acts that they say themselves. DOS will be the first to pay the price of its political marketing. Example three, crisis headquarters formed in the period after 5 October...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30290	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes, if not, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30291	Thank you, I'll be done. Especially an example of human rights violations during the kidnapping and arrest of Mr. President Slobodan Milosevic, not to mention the examples now, I will mention this after the human rights violations during the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30292	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30293	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when we have political prisoners in Serbia again and when people on the justice of God are held in prisons, when almost two months are not allowed to see their families, children, come to visit them, when their defenders are not allowed to make contact with them, when Rade Bulatovic and Aca Tomic, without any evidence, for paying back some debts, because they were doing their job, in prison, we are passing a law that should sanction those who have sinned against human rights. Has the time of political prisoners in Serbia passed? It's not. And that time is something that will mark both this congregation and this government. If you, and you boast that we are a member of the Council of Europe, you do not allow 60 days to see your defender and your family, that women and children cannot see and visit him, are these European standards, and is that why someone will respond? According to some standards, Serbia has not changed by some rights from the one that wore this coat of arms still standing in this assembly. We are still living in times when police are allowed to do so, and the police have today sent a letter to this assembly - to the Information Committee and made a comment on the work of some media and told the Committee to see how some media are reporting. At a time when we have freedom of public information, when we have the Law of Public Information and the Law of Broadcasting. Is it a free state that can discuss human rights violations in some of the times that they say have passed. If we talk about the laws passed in the countries of the former eastern bloc, the thesis was not passed by those who were part of the communist regime, who were party secretaries at the time and who were defeated in some party accounts. Those laws were passed by those who were dissidents, Democrats and victims of communist terror, who were not defeated at the 8th session, and are now being consecrated by some. That's what the victims of the communist regime brought. Are we watching an extension at the 8th session today? But let's get back to the law. In countries where lustration occurred, and to remind ourselves that there was no law on lustration in any country of the former Yugoslavia, certain laws also know some lustration provisions, but there was no lustration law. These laws were in the Czech Republic, Poland, Germany, Bulgaria and what the effects and results of this lustration were. If we took just a statement from Adam Mihnik, one of the richest Polish dissidents who said that I knew that lustration would produce what it produced and that we were more into lustration than we were dealing with real problems like economy, state and all, I would never stand for lustration. You can see that from Vaclav Havel's statement, which he said - if you haven't done the lustration, I recommend you don't do it, because the lustration has brought nothing to both Czech and Polish. Look, you have from the site of Beta, an analysis of other countries about the results of the lustration. If we start from how lustration should be achieved, the lustration law should be the fruit of a broad public debate, if nothing else, accepted by the largest number of citizens, the largest number of political factors, so that it could be implemented as such, rather than be the fruit of the action of one political party. The lustration law never goes on its own. First of all, there's a law on rehabilitation, which we haven't passed, there's a law on denationalization, which we haven't passed, and there's a law on opening files, which we haven't passed. What files in Serbia are being opened today? None. How's it gonna open? There's no law, they'll open them up as they please. Will your files be credible? That's the question. If we look at the results of the round table at the Media Centre in the Press Club, where Professor Jovica Trkulja, although favouring lustration, pointed out that there might be no need for lustration if a legal state had been created in Serbia in the last two years. That's what the one in favor of lustration says. And if a legal state were created in Serbia, there would be no need for lustration. I ask the question, is it possible for lustration to be carried out in a state that has no rule of law? Who in the wrong state is going to do the lustration? Will this lustration be legal and just or will it be a means of political revenge, a test of moral likeness and rematch? Can an illegal state exercise justice? He can't. There's no dilemma. There's no such dilemma from the time of the ancient state and Roman law, and we don't have that dilemma today. Irregular systems can't give birth right. What Valtazar Bogisic says, which the coat of arms is born of time does not correct, so there is no right that can correct something that was born wrong. If we start from the provisions of the law itself and from the fact that our country has regularly become a member of the Council of Europe, explain to me why you did not want to ratify the Convention in the Federal Assembly and why you did not want to ratify the Charter of the Council of Europe. Why didn't you accept that law on the agenda? Why did it suit you at that time that the principles that apply in the Council of Europe are not part of our legislation? Because you have passed laws contrary to the principles of the Council of Europe and international conventions. Because you've introduced a preventive detention of persons who are not suspected for up to 60 days, because you've introduced the law, not the court, but that the prosecutor determines a detention sentence, which is nowhere to be found, because that's all a court can do. You have abolished the right to appeal to those who have been held in custody. It's contrary to international conventions. I don't know who's going to lustrate you from what you've been doing. It'll obviously take chandeliers to lustrate. In Article 3, it has been moving since 1976, more specifically than the ratification of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. Why ever since? What about the Universal Declaration of 1947, 1948 of the UN on Human Pavilions? Is this not an act that came before, is it not an organisation that binds us more, and isn't it the Universal Human Rights Declaration that was brought in 1948 above all others, because all the UN member states are and have we not ratified that declaration before, but rather this 1976 declaration? Are you saying that you will amnesty all those who have violated human rights by 1976? Of those who tried Draža Mihajlovic and participated in these actions, who nationalised the property, took the property, brought us communist courts and took away civil honor, will you also amnesty them with responsibility. Do you want to amnesty from responsibilities and those who fought against liberals at Belgrade University and who kicked out professors from the Law School in the early 1970s. Do you want to amnesty from responsibility? You probably will. And if you didn't, you would have put it in 1948; of course, the eighth session should be lustrated, and for that itself. We go to Article 5; he has an anti-constitutional provision relating to the crimes for which obsolescence took place. Obsolescence is an institute of Roman law that has been embedded as such in all legislation since the time of Roman law. The Institute of Obsolescence is precisely why it exists, because after a certain time there is no interest in the state to prosecute the perpetrators of the crime...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30294	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30295	I'm moving on. The Institute of Obsolescence, that's why it exists. You're terminating the obsolescence institute. It wouldn't be burned, it wouldn't be all that if Article 5 didn't conflict with Article 14, where it's said that all the rights that are enjoyed by the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted and the person to whom the lustration procedure is being conducted. If you later guarantee the person against whom the lustration procedure is conducted, all rights guaranteeing criminal proceedings, including the right of limitations, and here you deny him the right to do so, which norm will apply to these two. These standards are against themselves. You can't say in a poor place that obsolescence doesn't apply and that it doesn't apply, and in article 14, you say, all rights apply to persons in criminal proceedings, and that includes limitations. What standard will apply? Who will enforce this law, and how will it be interpreted? In article 6, you say the privacy of another person, special forms of human rights violations by insulting the right to privacy. You know what happened at the time of the emergency, on the official website of the MUP, the address of Radet Bulatovic was published, to him and his wife, while he was in prison, what maniacs came to the door and called them on the phone. Will those who did this be lustrated because they publish the addresses of their faces when they can't. Will they be lustrated for it? Ladies and gentlemen, who will take care of the violations of these rights? Of course we do, and we'll see if there'll be any who answer for it? We go to Article 8 and the provisions - excluding responsibility for human rights violations. It's said that a violation committed by a face younger than 18 years old can be understood. But then we get to point 2 - committed by coercion, threats, blackmail, or other illicit pressure. You amnesty informants. What's the informant going to say that he's been using someone's name voluntarily and what it means to be "another underprivileged." Is favoring unauthorized pressure? It probably is, it's probably someone's been told, we'll hire your wife if you taste or indicate someone in your environment. You're amnesting those most perpetrators. In the foreign legislation that applied to this, the victims were just informants. They were the first ones to answer, not the other ones. You're amnesty. In particular, the third member is said to exclude the infringement action carried out by providing information to the BIA or an earlier relevant service in a statement during a police hearing. Where they went other than to the police to give it, they didn't report to bus stations or anywhere else, they went to the police and they said. Are we going to amnesty them? Those who willingly or who know what other things they have given, did, and showed, will be amnesty because they were threatened by God. There are no provisions in those laws and there are no such provisions in the foreign legislation. They are now calling on everyone who has tasted their colleagues, friends, husbands, women to be held accountable, not to release them or anyone else, because they gave it to the police or because under other circumstances they had to give it. Human rights violations through non-constitutional law, Article 9. Who is going to lustrate the Administrative Committee, which, under the law declared unconstitutional, has expelled MPs from this assembly? Who's going to lute them? Who's going to lustrate the president of the assembly for counter-constitutionally usurping the government of the president of the state, which doesn't call the elections, who's going to lustrate them? Further, an examination of the responsibilities of the individual, Article 13(3): "In the lustration procedure, it is determined that, at the time of human rights violations, the assumptions of individual responsibility were fulfilled in accordance with criminal and other criminal law. "This can only be done by the court. No one can determine criminal and other responsibility except the court. It can't be a commission. This is contrary to international conventions, with the Charter and the international acts you are calling upon -- that someone other than the court can determine someone's responsibility. Only a court can do that. It's from Habeas Corpus Act, since 1679, from England, just like that. Someone else can't do that. The court is the only one authorized to do that. I can't do that. Some commissions you form. Point 4 of this article says that it will determine whether a person is competent or not. That can only be determined by the court. It can't be done by that commission. This is unconstitutional and against the law, but it is also against the international acts you are referring to. It is also in Article 14 that I have already mentioned - that all rights apply to persons who are in the lustration process, as well as to persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted, including the right of limitations. If it is considered that there is no presummation of innocence here, that there are inquisition provisions here, more specifically, that they are all guilty until they prove otherwise, that each of us is being questioned until we prove otherwise, we assume that we can't see where this presumption of innocence is. Where's that presumption of innocence when everyone has to prove they didn't do anything? It doesn't exist anywhere. If you have in mind that you're looking at the files, what's in the law and the rules on file handling, who can look into the files, whether this commission can do it -- the answer is, and right now, it can't. That should be settled in the file law. This commission won't be able to do its job until the file law is passed. "The composition and way of choosing the commission" I read with special pleasure. The commission is said to have nine members, two are members of the Constitutional Court, two are members of the Supreme Court, and in this other number of members are elected deputy public prosecutor and MPs who are lawyers by education. It's incompatible with the judge's office to be here and there, both in the commission and in court. How can the judges of the Constitutional Court be on this committee when, afterwards, in Article 30, you say a complaint can be made to the Constitutional Court? How can the judges of the Constitutional Court be members, when exactly will the Constitutional Court be declared a complaint? How can they participate in the work of the commission, if, after all, they are to be told a complaint? Is this about incompatibility? What are you doing from the state? How is the commission formed? The Commission is formed by proposing the composition of the commission by the President of the Republic. God forbid there is a solution for the President of the Republic to choose parliament, so the parliamentary majority elects the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic elects its favorite judges, which are also members of some parties, so the lawyers from here, closes the circle and we get a party commission that should discredit political insinuators. Is it a lustration that will free us from injustice or is it a lustration that will produce new injustices? These are just some of the objections to the draft law on lustration. These are just some of the objections that suggest that this law is contrary to the international conventions you are referring to, it is contrary to the international universal declaration of the United Nations on human rights, and contrary to the Constitution and the law, it is contrary to the Constitution on human rights, which we have adopted in this assembly. The Democratic Party of Serbia cannot discuss and support such a bill, while there are political prisoners in Serbia, while political proceedings are being conducted in Serbia against people who are not on the side of those who are in power, who are not allowed to see their family for 60 days, to see their children, who are not allowed to contact their defenders. The Democratic Party of Serbia doesn't think that this country can lustrate anyone. This country isn't legal, it's not democratic, there's no institution. Lustration, in a country like this, would only bring more problems, confusion, open divisions, open new divisions, and not lead Serbia through what is called system building. The democratic party of Serbia, as long as there are political prisoners in Serbia, cannot discuss human rights. Members of the Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, after everything that is happening in this country's judiciary, in the police of this country, where people are without foundation and not allowed to contact the defenders, will not take part in the debate on this law. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will leave the debate on the law. (At 16,41 MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia leave the National Assembly of Serbia's hall. Give it up for a number of MPs present. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30296	National MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS-Reform parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30297	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the lustration law was... (Employer Dragan Shormaz reacts loudly and interferes with the speaker when leaving the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30298	National MP Dragana Shormaz, I give you a reminder on the basis of Article 102, because you have interrupted the speaker in his presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30299	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd start speaking as if I hadn't spoken before. The passing of the lustration law was one of the common thesis in the DOS programme in the 2000 elections, which was also the pre-election promise of the Democratic Party of Serbia, which was then in the coalition and was among the parties that supported the programme. The Joint Programme shall be reviewed in the Proposal for this Law. This bill can be amended by amendments. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs have not resorted to the possibility of responding to amendments to the bill. Apriorously, they rejected any possibility that one of the pre-election promises, which was made to the citizens, would be fulfilled. We take political responsibility for exactly what was promised to the citizens, for which we were given a mandate, for managing the state, for entering the Assembly and for entering the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One who fears lustration has an unclean conscience or has unclean intentions. We want the lustration to come from us right now. The bill stipulates that lustration applies to a period of ten years. We're not afraid of threats. That's why we're asking for this law to be applied for ten years so that someone can talk tomorrow about our responsibility for respect for human rights, which is "the fear of a bear with a grate." False claims are that there was no such thing as no legal basis to sanction human rights violations. When we see the behavior of some MPs here in the congregation, while we simply express different attitudes here, we can imagine how terrible it was when they were most of them and how terrible it was, or how necessary it was for this law to be passed, precisely because of these people. We insist on a legal basis. The legal basis is in the 1976 International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, found in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia predicts that those international conventions that have been ratified by our country are not only part of internal law but also have a countermand against our internal norms. Our laws have to adapt to these conventions, and if they don't adapt so much, it's worse for them, because then these international conventions are applied. This law does not foresee any particular repression. By the intonation, it can be seen that someone who had not had in the hands of the bill, that conditions were created for the opening of concentration camps. This law stipulates that when the law provides for a procedure to determine that someone has violated human rights, it is natural, with that person not only being able to perform public office in the next five years, which is also completely natural. So if someone, as minister, has committed human rights abuse, he can't be a minister in the next five years, and he shouldn't, because I think it's a basic common sense reason. This law is a warning to all authorities, former, present and future that the holder of public authority must not be raped while in power, that human rights should not be violated. Everyone, who is involved in political life, and the political spin is such that the parties are being replaced in power and every party, who has participated at this time in the adoption of this law, will naturally be subject to the examination of this particular commission and subject to this very law. I don't see what the problem is, and I don't see why anyone should be afraid of it. What is very important to us, and why this law is more prevention, much, much more prevention than sanctions, one who defines against this law in the beginning agrees that it was natural to repeat the times in which it was natural to persecute political insolents, to throw out university professors from the university just because they think in a different way, to persecute, completely anti-constitutional and against all possible international norms, members of the "Resist", on false charges of terrorism and on the assassination of Bosko Perosevic. Evil times in which it would be natural to shut down political inexperiences. I was one of those who were imprisoned as political insinuators and when I asked for a legal basis then they said that they were absolutely not interested in the legal basis. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the DOS-Reform Group of Serbia does not accept that Serbia will ever be that way again.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30300	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30301	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I remind you that today is May 29th. What irony! A royal couple were killed 100 years ago today, and today you obviously want to kill political opponents, commit political murder, or it may lead to political suicide. If I had ever doubted the visionary spirit of Vojislav Seselj, this day I was convinced that when he spoke to you about May 29th he knew that even the day you wanted to deal with political opponents you were planning ahead and that you had determined that you were talking about a law like this today. This law, I'm sure, will lead to your political suicide. The Serbian Radical Party and Serbian Radical Party MPs are not afraid to come under the influence of the law. We will give our principled view of lustration and we, of course, are against this law, we are against political revenge, against political hatred. We are for a political fight, we are fighting to beat you politically in the elections, and only so can the political scene be pure in Serbia. Who is proposing this law? We are suggested by the Civil Union of Serbia, which seems to me to have only gone to the polls once and won 0.05% of the vote. Which is behind the Civilian Union of Serbia, which has dared to propose legislation to the MPs of this parliament, and behind each of us is a large number of voters, we who went to the elections on our own can say that we have not joined any other political parties, while they are probably the cowardly egg of the parliamentary majority, which has now been declared, the largest political party in the DOS supports this bill and let it go to their soul. These days we had a chance to see from a press conference in the Serbian government that there was reconciliation. Peace, peace, peace, no one's to blame, let's move on. I was talking about you, you were talking about me, and now we're not talking about anything, it's all gone into the wind, there's not a lot of people having fun. When he's got nothing to eat, let him talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30302	I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30303	I'm talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30304	Don't talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30305	Now we need to do ourselves again in the congregation. What will happen to each of us in the future, whether we can be on the parliamentary lists or not, whether we can be on some other functions or not, and yet those crucial problems in this country remain outside this Parliament and represent no subject of our discussion. After the introduction of Mr. Andric, who has left here, who mentioned who could be lustrated under this law, it reminds me of the intra-party coup, because if he decided to lustrate Mr. Svilanovic, then Ms. Micic, and all others, I don't know how many there are, just the two of them know Mr. Andric from that political party, he probably wanted to get the post of president of the party. If that's his intention, this is his good and probably legitimate path. Lustration has long since begun in Serbia, so that we do not fool ourselves. Whether we need the law or you don't need it, we don't need it, but you and the lustration gentlemen started on October 5, 2000. Then when you were burning down the Assembly, Television, harassing the then director of Komrakov, Milanovic, numerous directors by social and public enterprises in Serbia, you have already done the lustration in some way, punished those people, branded them in public and past, still, without any consequences, but the consequences will certainly come and do so very quickly. Here in this law is mentioned by the BIA, as an organization, and as the previous DB, to have some files that will be allegedly a document based on which the commission will decide whether or not someone in the past has violated human rights. We know these files don't go by name and last name. It doesn't say Gordana Pop-Lazic. I don't know how they see me, they probably put a mark on me. Some people probably have the mark of Josephine, some flaccid, third lioness, fourth bald, drunkard, like this, and they know exactly who he refers to. Even Mr. Mihajlovic says that these files could never have been some evidence in court, because that's what she always said. You know how DB is, so you know B.I.A. How she worked. There's a norm, you have to deliver three reports over the month, you have to process three people, you follow them, and if you haven't found anything, then you make it up, you write it down, you tell me this, the one at the barber told me this, the bar told me that, and that's how the paperwork was piling up. I don't mind, let those files open, if they can be credible evidence of human rights violations, then be. The question is, who's going to be lustrated here? Probably Covic, as a war profiter. Probably a Martian, as a proponent of such a Rules of Procedure, which violates the fundamental constitutional rights of the MPs of the people. It is likely Kostunica, because he has counter-constitutionally appointed Socrates as foreign minister. I think we all know that his file is called just like this, he's called Socrates. Batic and Ceda due to pressure on courts, Gašo Knezevic for having kicked Vojislav Seselj out of the Faculty of Law. I could list all today's ministers in the government, and not repeat myself to the president of the Assembly, who usurped the office of president of the state, apparently thinks of the dynasty to establish, I don't know, a time when she decides or someone else will decide on her behalf, but we didn't have the opportunity to give citizens the right to choose the president as the Constitution requires. Probably a better candidate, at this point, DOS is gone, so then let Mrs. Micic perform that function. The day before yesterday, the newspaper reads, "My resignation would be an act of betrayal," where Mihajlovic tells of his responsibility for the murder of Zoran Djindjic, and I found a provision in the law, which you propose, which exactly refers to Mr Mihajlovic, because he knew he was threatening to kill Mr Djindjic, even warned him and did nothing. But Dragore Hiber, commenting on this possibility of being in custody for 270 days, aware that it is against the constitution, says he signed the bill, so that all measures that pose a threat to human rights during the month will be excluded by amending the law. A man wants to lustrate himself. It means she feels her own responsibility and I welcome it. I ask that this stenogram be delivered to that future commission, so that we do not forget it. If this law is voted in the Assembly, which I doubt, then when you lastrate the first of you, you will convince me that you wanted something; if you only lustrate political opponents, so you make lists for future elections for us, then it is clear that it is only a matter of destroying political opponents in the only possible way - through force. As for the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law... (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Yes. You can also say that you claim here that there is a constitutional basis, but whoever understands it will realize that the constitutional basis is something that is not there. I don't want Mr. Pajtic to talk about it, I think that a million people were watching a duel between Mr. Pajtic and Mr. Mihajlov, in which he claimed that there were some constitutional powers of the former president of the federal state, knowing that he was telling the truth, and calling for him to be an assistant of the Law Faculty and his students to listen to him. He can come out again for a pay phone and interpret the Constitution as he wills, but we should have an institution called the Constitutional Court, which would work without political pressure and which would make decisions based on the Constitution, the law and free judicial conviction. We don't have such a constitutional court, and that's why we only have political decisions - the extended hand of the DOS. By adopting this bill, which, therefore, is obvious to us, the Serbian Radicals, that contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in contrast with the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the National Assembly, by protecting human rights, would actually allow the most brutal violation of human rights. In the provisions of the suspension, any, until now known, minimum rights belonging to the person against whom the proceedings are being conducted shall be denied. And who's running the procedure? The commission proposed by the president who does not exist, in which there will be two members of the Constitutional Court, two members of the Supreme Court, some experts, some of the lawyers from the National Assembly; I know only two who come into consideration, these are Ristic and Pajtic, but I do not know who the third is. So, you two, you're the only one who can be on that council, but I'd like to see which people, if there's a vote of this law, will agree to do this dirty work. Watch out, and in 1948, some of these interrupted courts sent people to Goli Island. This is the predecessor of a new globular island. That's what anyone who doesn't realizes right now will understand in the future. Many did not realize it even in 1948, but they realized a little later and were on the pillar of shame. If you're taking it upon yourself to be on the pillar of shame, I don't mind, as far as we're concerned, good luck to you. The bill aims to initiate a process that could be called desrbification, given that this lustration is compared and is a foothold for it to be de facto. In this way, it is very skillfully associated with something that has been applied in fascist Germany. That sort of thing in Serbia has never happened in the past, nor has it happened. No close ties between fascist Germany and Serbia in the last 12 years are certain. I will try to defend the Charter, which we voted against, to defend the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which you voted against, which we also voted against, as well as the Constitution of Serbia, and to remind you that everyone has an obligation to respect the human and minority rights of others; this is Article 2. Command. To remind you further of Article 5 of this Charter, which speaks when human and minority rights may be limited, to Article 6 which speaks of the moment when a war and emergency is imposed, to judicial protection and the removal of the consequences of human and minority rights in Article 9, where everyone has the right to effective judicial protection in the event that a human or minority right guaranteed by this Charter is violated or denied. Then to article 12 on the non-violence of physical and mental integrity, and I remind you that here - in the National Assembly - at the assembly speaker, as a result of the violation of basic human rights and our rights as MPs to speak for this speaker, because of the decision and the secluded behaviour of the president of the Assembly, one MP suffered a heart attack, the other was injured, which is regulated medical documentation and a neat procedure against the President of the Assembly before the court in charge. Remember, anything that's ever happened, related to human rights violations, if we don't clear out how many human rights MPs are, our rights here are violated in the National Assembly, if we don't execute lustration here, we're not going to execute it anywhere. I see you don't think of yourself as a chandelier. You think you're out of the reach of any law. "No one shall be subjected to torture, inhuman or humiliating treatment or punishment" (Art. 12). We've been subjected repeatedly here and tortured, and humiliated and punished. Article 15: "The arrested person must be brought to court without delay, no later than 48 hours." Always the court, which commission, which one breaks the commission? Everyone has the right to appeal (Art. 18). There's no right to appeal here. Presumption of innocence (Art. 19) - everyone is innocent until his guilt is determined by the court's decision. Prohibition of retroactivity (Art. 20) - He just looked me in the eye of the President of the Assembly, not blinking, and said, "He has not decided to have retroactiveness." And the committee says in its report just like this: although it is legally disputed whether the law determines a return fact, because the promoters believe it is not there, i.e. he considers himself a proposer, and this is signed by Dragor Hiber, who is also a signator of this act, the Committee found by majority that there is a general interest in the feedback of Article 4. Proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations. Who then was telling the truth here, and who tried to fake the committee's report with his statement. Right to respect for private and family life (Art. 24), this is about BIA. Well, we can't even cough in our apartments anymore without someone knowing we're coughing. If we're planning on where we're going this weekend, it's everyone who needs to know. Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience, conviction or religion (Art. 25). Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression (Art. 29). Who here has the right to freedom of opinion and expression? I have to choose to say what I'm going to say as a politician for a pay phone that's only for politicians, so those behind my back don't punish me or take my word. Who here violates human rights? President of the Assembly, the first to be the object of lustration. A citizen of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro who has turned 18 has the right to choose and be elected to the authorities of local self-government, the state authorities of the Member State and the institutions of the state community, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter and the laws of the Member States (Art. 33). It's about election laws. Who else has the right to suspend this electoral right of citizens? I remember, actress Žanka Stokic lost her civil right to vote after the war, remember that. There's a street in Senjak that since a few years ago bears her name, and on a pillar of shame was carried out, and so, poor thing, she died because of everything that's been happening to her. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. Now you want to do it with us. I don't think you'll have time. It seems to me that it takes you three months for this law to start applying if you vote at all. In three months, you won't even be here. Most of you will already be flying towards South Africa or South America, and many of you more on the political scene, including these poor proposings, will not exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30306	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30307	Dear gentlemen, why are we against this law? This is where the term "defasation" is used to explain the law. What defascision? I didn't choose the chairman of the board of directors who then replaced me because he was DOS. Think about it. This law as if it's trying to denunciate some fascists from World War II, it has two fundamentally different approaches, and in practice we have the fact that there are no faces that were definitely fascists during World War II, which I'm going to talk about on the case of Capca, where I come from. Today, a man named Paun Protic, who was commander of the Ljotic Assembly of the Fascist Guard, received one of the central streets in the town of Šapcu to bear his name. The man is responsible for the shooting of 5,500 men in Capco. What 5,500 people? It's about ordinary, ordinary people who then raised their voice against the occupation of their country. They were not communists or communists, but surely they were all patriots together and stood up to defend their country. The Machuvanic Partisan Squad was then formed in Machva, which was nearly destroyed by the fall and shot down and numbered 3,000 people. Who did that? On behalf of the Serbian state, in the name of Serbia, the Paun Protic worked for the king and the country. Those were motives. What's been erased from the street name, so he doesn't embarrass the town of Whisper anymore? Vera Blagojevic, who is in the central square, had no idea what Communism meant, got up publicly to defend her country. Four Srnić brothers were wiped out, the mother lived until 1981, who were also killed then. It's forbidden to speak and mention those names anymore. But we do have the sacred name of Paun Protic and some of the supposed 12 Chetniks of the student battalion. To the site where those 5,500 people were killed, only we are still leaving to take the wreaths. It's heresy. I'm afraid some bulldozer won't shut it down in the next period. What happened to those people and their kids? Prosecuted Chetnik in the period, Sindzic, has reportedly fled to a state, but his children are in the period so-called. After the war, they became doctors and no one touched them. Another Chetnik Vukovic, a well-known slayer, who slaughtered 73 people in our area, slaughtered 73 Serbs in Sapac, graduated from college and served as long-time director of the Public Undertaking for Building Land Management and a reserve military officer. I don't want to talk about it anymore, just to say what the term defamation means and how practical it is. What will the lustration law bring us? I don't think it'll bring us anything. It will certainly not be a law that will lead us to Europe. It will cause new and new divisions, discussions, public conflicts, abuses, personal restitutions, personal accounts for individuals. Whether someone will continue to treat complexes in the political future, we will see. Why won't this take us to Europe? They won't take us to Europe for a few reasons. European parliamentary systems know absolutely reduced political tones in political practice, absolute political tolerance and never again hate speech between political opponents, good and reasonable political co-operation, cultural political language and responsibility for a publicly spoken word that does not denunciate other political options and opponents from political practice and gives them the right to step forward in public and to hear their public word. This law will not help the recovery of the Serbian economy. And has the lustration happened in a good way yet? Well, it is. The best Serbian businessmen are out of the collective. What's left in the economy, it's still doing well. You know who's lustrated? All those who have lost their jobs have lost their right to work. They have no one to complain about losing their right to work after a brief procedure and they've lost their future. No one has the right to deny that future and the right to work, the future for their children and family. It certainly doesn't lead us all to Europe. In Europe, we are all driven together by good economy, good wages, good jobs for young generations and a good common future. This going back and digging into the past isn't good. We do not intend to talk about this in public, but we warn that the mirror always has its reflection and can be used and well presented in public, but whether it will lead to the fixation of political tones and allow all of us to move on politically together. In Serbia's political scene, this will certainly not help the next elections, which are scheduled to take place in Serbia, to be legitimate, to be an expression of true candidacy and sound political will. These days we have a fresh example of lustration by court, so our vice president Dobrivoje Budimirovici - Bajji is sentenced to six months in prison because he has a gun for which he has the approval to hold. Why six months? In six months' time, when the verdict is passed, when it is delivered, it will already be 10, 12, 14, when we gain the right to appeal, because it will probably not be able to work, or to act politically. I think this previous time, which we've had through the state of emergency, has had its significant failures that individuals have used in a certain way. They used it, but it seems to me that lustration will open up so much space and the right of individuals to accuse you, to speak to you, to lie to you, and to insult you. At a time when we were in power, and someone else in the opposition, used the term that you were a thief, a criminal of anything -- was a daily political language and the right to politicalally deunciate people, without any argument, just a term used for the sake of daily political need, to collect cheap political points. Time's gone, years are behind it, we haven't used that rhetoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30308	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30309	I'm done. We didn't use that political rhetoric. And why is that? We don't think that as an opposition we should look like the opposition that was before us, we don't think that that way we should go back to power, because we don't need that kind of help to get back. I think all that is written in this law and what will happen in this law in political practice, this commission that will do so will not lead Serbia into the future, but will bring it back years to dig through dirty things and abuse the names and names of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30310	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30311	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the scheduled agenda, did not stand this point, it was subsequently placed, and that is why I do not have a bill of law at hand that I timely delivered to the Assembly in the procedure, which is the law on the right to have a file at my disposal at the Office of State Security. With the content of this law, once upon a time, with anger and opposition then the chairman, Mrs. Micic, met all of you. I'm sorry I can't refresh my memory of that now. I don't know what motives were run by the Civil League, although they were vehemently announcing it, to speed up this law right now. I suppose they're honorable and I don't doubt it, but this law cannot achieve its goal unless the law on the right to have a file at its disposal at the Department of State Security is passed. This is where the untrustworthy stories about these files were heard, because they were told by people who didn't read the files. The file, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, is in the name and last name. For example, if you had a record, there UDBA wrote you a beautiful Gordana Pop-Lazic or Mrs Natasa Micic. And you know what's unknown, what's mysterious, what's unclear? What's unknown is the names of the delivery guy, the taster, the informant, the snitch, the associate, the gypsies, the spies and the unfortunates who'd been ruining your life for years, and you didn't know it. Yes, I know Socrates, unfortunately, participated in it before he drank that poison, otherwise he couldn't, was prevented objectively, these are the unfortunate ones who reported you to the place where you needed to be. Some did it for money, some for belief, and some in the blessed hope of doing a patriotic act. Among those who have committed a patriotic act, there is a representative in this government. So that's why these files aren't being disclosed and the sad fact is if I find that half this hall, half the people were being tapped, were being watched, and half of them were suppliers, God forbid we get that information, that would be terrible, that would be sad. But, I remind you, the minister promised me that the law would be written, that it would be all on the working team, but I didn't run, and he generously offered it. I've shown good faith to participate in this, and now this law is really going to be left without a standoff unless we know who these unfortunate people are who have destroyed the lives of honest people. Who are these people? We can guess, we can't sin on the soul. For example, I know my name is Bora, the one who followed me, wherever I step there's the unfortunate Bora, so it's written there, I don't know who that face is, I don't know who's hiding behind that conspiracy name, I don't know, I can tell, it's people from the collective. It's a sad fact if everyone is suspicious of us, so I ask the authorities to open those files. We don't have to doubt everything, let only the guilty be appointed, let those who have made our lives miserable, who have reported us, who have done this to us, and not just since 1976. Let them be placed on a pillar of shame, let them be lynched, let them be marked, and the purpose of this law is moral cleansing, because it will not achieve its goal unless we open the files. That's where the wrongs were done, that's where the wrongs were done, that's where the people were scolded. What particularly disappointed me was that I established the great illiteracy of snitches, that they were tasters and people of a suspicious moral habitat, there was no doubt. Imagine, what I'm surprised is that these are people of questionable literacy, because they simply delivered false data, they used to be a joke that I would tell those deliveries to a place I need and I can't recognize a joke, I don't know where the point is. So, even in those things. Next, of course, gentlemen, if I didn't suffer for that joke, other things. You know what the joke is, and so I ask the legislator of this law, pull him out of the procedure, delay his adoption. I hope it didn't burn that bad. As a government, as a responsible authority, and as you should be, first you pass a law of record detection, so let all the people who have been snitched at the UDB, know who their snitches are, finally know that. We're going to be disappointed, of course, we're really going to meet our possible close relatives, but what are we going to do? Once we have to look into the eyes, it's time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30312	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, applied for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups. In the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in the principle of the proposal for a law on liability for human rights violations, the first reported MP Ljubisa Kesic, followed by MP Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30313	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the opposition has today presented two basic thesis by attacking and contesting this bill. One thesis is that there has been a dispute and that in the past, in general, there have been violations, and there have been severe violations of human rights. The second concern is that under the lustration the representatives of today's government will fall first and foremost. For the first time, I don't think there's any basis. As for the other thesis, there is no reason to worry, anyone who violates human rights before and after October 5th has reason to worry that he will be found to have done so and will not be able to perform, not to work, but only will he not be able to perform the most responsible state functions. So the idea of this law is based on a basic promise, which is that from the moment this government comes it will try and manage to build and improve democratic institutions. That's what we've done most, and we're doing it. What certainly makes the facility functional is the fact of who's in charge. Whether they're high-quality people, and when I say high-quality, I mean their expertise, but I also think about their ethics. If those institutions were led by people who did not violate human rights, then the authority of these institutions would indeed be incomparably greater in front of the citizens of the Republic. If we agree that the goal that this law should achieve is not repression, not revenge, and not looking into the past to show human rights offenders who are not presently in public functions, then it is clear that the aim of this law is that it looks at the present and the future and that the largest number of lustration checks will be passed by the holders of the current government, the holders of judicial functions. As for the persons elected, including the MPs, they cannot be told by this law the extent to which these functions are prevented, precisely because they are chosen by the citizens. So only this measure can be expressed to those persons who are appointed or appointed. Now I'm going to try to comment, not to an excessive extent to bother you, one of the the thesis presented by one of the parties that this law has a retroactive fact. Proposers believe that there is no and that is precisely why the date on which the verification was carried out was on March 23, 1976, because from that day on, the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, which provided for what human rights are and anyone who violates them for it can bear the least possible measure of responsibility, which is the measure provided for in this law. I would also like to stress that this law does not foresee that earlier holders of public functions are being questioned, but current and future candidates for holders of these public functions. Many people who have violated human rights, precisely because this law looks at the present and the future, will not be the subject of lustration, but will be the sole holders of public functions or candidates for them. Why can't this law be selective? Because it provides for a previous procedure, in which a lustration commission can only be based on reliable, therefore material evidence, which is data from BIA files and court files, or from the archives of state authorities and institutions, to obtain data that someone has violated human rights. If such data do not occur, in that case, the lustration procedure for the person subject to the lustration cannot begin. I sincerely hope that the largest number of public officials did not violate human rights. For anyone who has violated human rights, whether it or not from my party, it is in my party's interest that such a person be disabled to perform public functions. So that's good for my party too, and so I expect that there's a reason to look at every party that's seriously thinking about it. At last, I would agree here with Mr. Pitiæ, creating a face to predict great retribution here. This is only about two possible measures, if it is determined that someone has violated human rights, which is a public statement and a statement in which he has violated human rights, provided that only that person does not accept that it is true and that he does not withdraw from office or give up his candidacy. In the case of designated and appointed persons, it may be possible to make it impossible to perform only those public functions, which are listed in this law, for a period of five years. So nothing important here is threatened to anyone, except that it wants the most responsible state functions to be performed by persons who in the past have not violated human rights. I would agree that this law must have another law, so it would take another deadline until this law begins to operate, and that would be the law opening the file, which would serve as a basis for the lustration commission in implementing the lustration procedure. There's been a series of amendments to this law. We've reviewed the amendments. A huge number of amendments are really in place. These amendments will be accepted and they will become an integral part of the bill, of course, if you respect it and vote. One of the most important amendments is a legitimate observation by the opposition, it is precisely that judges of the Constitutional Court cannot be a second-degree body and at the same time members of the lustration commission. I call on you to vote for this law, it's not dangerous, it's just for the purification of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30314	The word of the messenger of the people is Adam Uroshevic, and the next to be declared by the word is the messenger of Melank Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30315	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the draft law on lustration is a good attempt to correct many mistakes from the past, but only an attempt remains, because, at the same time, there are many shortcomings and weaknesses, which points to the need for changes in the legal proposal itself. Article 6 defines as a violation of human rights and a case of official duty within which a person, by order of his superior, provides information to national security, is today BIA. This provision calls into question every member of the same service, because the only job of this service is intruding right into the matter of human rights, so it is difficult to establish a clear limit to what is and what is not allowed. Based on the same provision, personal rematch against former members of the Service is possible, although it has never done anything without the knowledge of the ruling figures in power. Article 9 deals with the issue of the application of non-constitutional laws. This article will place the burden of responsibility on the conscience of the judges themselves, although the problem is much deeper. This raises the question of political and legal relations at all. It is known that, over the past period, politics has dictated the legal order, and that means that judges were also handcuffed to political decisions. This article can be marked, of course, from a moral point of view, extremely incorrect, because there was no true division of power, which would guarantee independence to the judiciary, and thus there was no fundamental independence of the judiciary, there was no full responsibility to be transferred to the Constitutional Court, and the impression was that so. The issue of Article 10, relating to directed court proceedings and the responsibility of judges, has also been opened. This is another place that shows the domination of the political system over the legal system and the impotence of the legal order, as well as the system's own kind of anomaly at all. The solution points to the punishment of direct perpetrators, without trying to punish the most responsible, so for this provision, for the provision of Article 10, it can also be said that it is insufficiently precise because it does not follow the spirit of the law and the desire of the legislator, which is that the penalties are the most responsible for the mentioned events. There is no doubt that part of the responsibility is borne by the judge himself. But it should not be forgotten that a good number of judges were forced to perform their official duties, no matter how unwarranted she was, due to the inability to provide for herself and her family in some other way. The above should be taken as an expedient circumstance in a possible process. In Article 11, the legislator determines the persons to whom the bill applies. It should be said that some persons, who can reasonably be presumed to have, if not greater, the same amount of responsibility. The question has been raised why there is no mention of a military prosecutor and military judge, then the presidents and members of the executive committees of local self-government, etc. Some of the above were actors of unceasing events, which are also related to human rights violations, and therefore it would be necessary for the Proposer to introduce the necessary changes in the existing draft law. It is particularly interesting in Article 13(2), which clearly states that belonging to a political party is not the basis for conducting a lustration process. This member should be particularly commended because he is in line with the principle of legal equality. However, there is a big difference between legal theory, whose law is an irrefutable part until it starts to apply, but also practice itself, the application that often makes a mockery of a sincere wish by the legislator. In recent months, the public has also witnessed political trade and manipulation. It cannot be argued with certainty that one of the arguments for the discipline of opposition MPs was not also a threat to lustration. Article 16(2) is in part contrary to Article 6. In this regard, it is explicitly noted in the proposal for a law that the Commission will use the security and information agency files, while Article 6 even determines the responsibility for human rights violations in the case of data collection which constitute a violation of privacy in the performance of its official duties, which is irrefutable in relation to BIA activities, and then those same data are used in the procedure before the Commission. It is a particularly interesting solution to Article 24(4) that regulates the way members of the commission are elected. The said solution stipulates that the selection of members of the commission is done by the majority of the votes of the MPs present, which is a bad solution, as it reduces the authority and the political weight itself that the future commission should possess. The political importance of such a body can be crucial, because without sufficient political support, success in the process of carrying out lustration cannot be expected. Regardless of the legal expertise of the members of the commission, which will be irrefutable, if legal provisions are respected, it is necessary to correct this deficit and demand that an absolute majority be provided for the selection of commission members. The most significant contribution this bill could make is to determine the responsibilities of the most responsible, which means those in power at times of human rights violations. This is also the biggest challenge for future law. The measure of its success will now be to determine the responsibilities so far of untouchable political structures, as well as the willingness to punish them, regardless of whether the new authorities hold the most responsible functions. The bill is a good attempt to finally clear up with the past and introduce into our legal system solutions that have arisen as a product of long-term democratic evolution, but only with the necessary changes. More importantly, it is a matter of political will to implement the law in action, as some of the current political figures in power can become a object of lustration. This is the most significant test for verifying the declared legal equality within which it will be seen whether all citizens are equal before the law or still there are privileged categories and double arches. If it does not insist on a consistent application of the future law, there will be another farce on the Serbian political scene, which will show that there is no sincere intention to solve certain problems, as has been the case with the announced opening of secret files of leading public figures, which has never been realised. With respect to the prominent lawyers who have prepared this bill or have only signed themselves, I must say that many of the provisions in this legislative proposal are confusing, so as to give the impression that this proposal has been made under the system of "storage". Serbian Unity Party MPs believe that the hasty adoption of such a bill would cause effects exactly contrary to expectations and would desavuate the declared democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30316	The word has the People's MP Melank Shandor, the next declared word is MP Branislav Blazic, and then the MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30317	Ladies and gentlemen, who should be concerned about this legislative proposal on lustration? It's likely that it should concern those who crossed that moral Rubicon on October 5th and thought, "It's good, it's all forgotten, no one knows anything, and I'll choose a new function, maybe someday." That's where they were wronged because that truth about the past couldn't just be erased. That confrontation, without that truth from the past, would be like fertilizing, and it should be prevented from fertilizing that wound. You can't put a patch on the wound and think it'll help that wound. This incursion in the past will go on until 1976, when the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights is ratified. Then our country accepted the standards of Europe and introduced them into its legislation. So, for the truth in a country where the lie existed for 12 years, of course it had its opponents, and they were usually close to the regime and kept that truth from us. This law shows that we do not want to legalize amnesia. The amnesia is gone and must not be, and there must also be no amnesia. This law will achieve three goals, which is to show that we respect victims who have been abused, to establish the rule of law and to deter those new people, who will hold certain functions, from future abuses.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30318	The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30319	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought the time of 1945-1948 was past, a time of persecution, of hickey, of harassing people and of their families. I thought there was a Bolshevik way of dealing with political opponents in that Stalinist, we don't know if you're guilty, but we hope you'll remember that. Dostoevsky said that the devil was so black only because he could look white, like the White Angel, and indeed in history many dictators represented themselves as Democrats or as white angels, but they were actually carrying evil, hate, terror, everything that destroyed the future of their peoples. What are the reasons for the government to pass such a law after three years of government, and who is the promoter? The proposed Civil Union, which belongs to a group of these dwarf parties, does not go out on their own, because they would not be able to make a censorship, but they have so much power, the accumulation of government in this country that they behave roughly as civilian administrators, as civil administrators in Kosovo and Metohija or civil administrator in Republika Srpska, is the Civil Union in Serbia. About as many votes would be given if they went to the polls as the civilian administrators in Kosovo and Metohija and Republika Srpska. Here we have heard that the bill promoter said that in the countries of the Eastern bloc, real socialism, citizens asked to pass a lustration law. It may have been there, but it certainly isn't, because I'm sure the citizens here don't even ask for a pronoun to be in power. It's obviously something else. It is that the elections are quite close and it is clear to the small parties that they cannot survive on the political scene unless they are eliminated in one way or another by political opponents. They found one solution, that through the lustration law, through the story of something that happened in the previous period, a number of political opponents eliminated or grouped through collective guilt, and in the campaign they transferred it to all other parties. In fact, what's the background of the whole story? The background of the whole story can be viewed psychologically in three directions: one is rematchism, another is hatred and third is aggression. The rematch is clear. Rematchism will be passed down from knee to knee after this lustration law. It will be after Beckovic -- we will be daughters forever. The other thing, hate, that's because of the rule of fear, fear gradually turns into hatred, and we have the hatred of the people against that government, and we have the hatred of the authorities on the one hand to the political opponent. Hate is the result of his fear, because he is unable to realize what he has promised and normal, when his election approaches his hatred is increasing, because uncertainty and anxiety are increasing. What is the environment in which we bring this law? Obviously the weakness of democracy. All dictatorships stem from the weakness of democracy. It's easy to move from democracy to dictatorship. It's a very easy process because the moment you lose your will, you lose your tolerance, you don't have any more time, you don't have the opportunity to try to achieve all the democratic processes, because the elections are coming to you, you move on to a pendrect, you take things into your own hands, you introduce a state of emergency, and you rule fantastically. The other thing, which is the essence of democracy, is that the individual's interest is also the interest of the entire society. We obviously don't have the whole society's interest in this lustration here. To do that, we need to have a wide public debate, so let's see if it's all that or whether it's just the interest of certain people who are trying to stay on the political scene by eliminating some other people. If we want to have democracy, right, modern, consistent, we have to reject all kinds of violence. You obviously didn't throw away the violence. Fight some who have waged violence, but have not rejected violence, conduct it here in the Assembly, express measures to distance MPs from the Assembly, you have abolished TV transmission, you are taking mandates, you are carrying out terror, even here, and we are not talking about the fear among citizens and why this political crisis has been caused. Almost all the political crises in the world have been caused by the conflict of people at the top of the government, because they all think they're a little bigger than these others. According to Orwell from Animal Farms, they're all the same, only some who are equal think they're a little more equal than the others. The problem with this law is that this power, by passing this law, shows that it is not only an accident for its people, but for itself. You must be aware that the law you bring will be applied against you. That's the essence of the problem that's about to happen to you. Why are you actually going to that variant? This is anti-Serbian law for two reasons: the first reason is because you want to attach human rights threats to the Serbian people related to Kosovo and to the international community's position, to the bombing of this people, which is due to the washing of the faces of Americans and everyone else; the second is that you are trying to bring this people's future into one story, to your own business, with the constant persecution of those who were in power, to come second, so they will persecute the rest. Are we, as a nation, mature enough that one moment someone might draw that line and listen a little to Mendela, who's been in jail for 27 years? He looked through one window when the sun passed, but when he won the democratic elections he said - gentlemen, I forgive everyone, not because it's right but because it's the interest of the entire state. If he hadn't done it, blood would have run through the rivers in South Africa, but he managed to bring democracy in that way. Therefore, democracy needs a broad heart and far more love and desire to achieve it from the empty stories we hear from this authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30320	The word has a folk MP, Velimir Simonovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30321	Ladies and gentlemen, when I turned on the television this morning about eight hours to see the first daily news, here's what I remembered: First, the Labour Market Office, reports -- from month to month, the number of unemployed in Serbia is increasing. A clerk from the Bureau shows up and says, "We can't draw jobs." And there's a bunch of people waiting outside the Bureau. I trust him, he can't draw jobs. Then, second news; the Deputy Prime Minister appears and says, "The state is in terrible shape." We have to trust him, he's the Deputy Prime Minister. Behind him comes the government minister and says, "We have some priorities, we need to determine that" etc. Something else happened, which surprised me yesterday, which is that some of our great enemy, some Mr. Soros, could hold a press conference in the middle of Belgrade, and then I found out, where he claims, watch out -- that's his second phase, and his first phase was to finance NGOs, maybe some political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30322	I warn you to get back on the agenda. Professor, you have a bill, you've got a word on that basis. According to the Rules of Procedure, you can hold a press conference and hold a political class as long as you want, but now you have to talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30323	I speak here because this law is unnecessary. Please don't disturb me. So he publicly says that Kosovo and Metohija should be independent, that Republika Srpska should drown in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that Serbia-Montenegro should be independent states, and that Macedonians should see what they will do with Albanians. These are all our big problems, and then the Civil League finds itself, according to that folk proverb, "the unemployed priest and the goats baptize" to serve us this law, aside from all the problems we need to solve, and part of these problems falls within the authority of this assembly. I've read this law, I've been undermining a lot, but it doesn't deserve my attention to say anything in detail about this law at all. If the Civil Union believes this law will contribute to the development of democracy in Serbia, it is in great error, ladies and gentlemen. This isn't democratic law, and you all know I'm not the kind of man who would be afraid of this law. However, what is the way out of this awkward situation that our colleagues have led us to. There are two exits: one is that the law is withdrawn, it is simplest, that we don't waste time on that law; if they won't do so, then the second solution is, unfortunately, only theoretically, which I propose, that we don't have a debate about this law at all, that everyone withdraws the amendments they have submitted and that, when we vote in principle, we reject this law with indignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30324	Professor, I would also remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, any MP can submit a bill or act that can, then, come into the process. You have no right to a replica. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic. The next person to be declared is MP Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30325	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a law on liability for human rights violations or lustration law proposed by the MPs of the Civil Union, in an urgent procedure, for the very reason that it is a regulation that is very important for the establishment of an institutional and legal framework for sanctioning violations of guaranteed human rights in the period covered by the bill. I don't think the reasons for urgency are justified, that this law is long spoken of, that DOS has been in power for more than two years, that it could have been brought in at the beginning and that lustration has already been done according to, as you say, members of the former regime, through crisis headquarters, all shifts and changes, past laws and regulations, and through other chicanes. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is Article 73 paragraph 1. The constitution, under which the Assembly adopts laws and other legal acts, but cannot be the basis for the adoption of laws whose content is not in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Charter, the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, as well as with the entire legislation of the Republic of Serbia. Lustration was conducted in former communist countries: Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, East Germany, Bulgaria, Romania. This law is, as you say, some Hungarian model. But can we compare ourselves with them? Even during the reign of Broz, we have been above them in every respect, since 1990 we have had multi-party elections that have always been recognised, and no former republic of Yugoslavia has passed such a law. I don't think it's good to get what was once attacked, so-called. The moral-political resemblance, now slightly hidden, legalizes and, under the pretext of protection, violates human rights again to its political inexperiences. Isn't it the best lustration on the ibsors and that citizens say who is good and who isn't, and not that this law is selectively implemented according to the need against the opposition, and also in the DOS itself or the authorities if someone runs out and makes problems. It is alarming who stands in the signing of the Bill's proposal -- prominent professors and lawyers, as well as the Centre for the Advancement of Legal Studies from Belgrade, and it contains a lot of mistakes, it is anti-constitutional, the opposite so-called. "a small charter on human rights" and the prerequisite is to include our country in European integration. We were on the Justice Committee yesterday, and today we heard from the promoters that the law has no retroactive fact, that it is directed towards the future, that the opposition should support it and that the lustration of the ruling DOS will be carried out, that it will not be selective and that it will be carried out on the basis of material evidence from the BIA archives and the court files, and that, regardless of the legal dispute, we will be given the general interest that there is a feedback of the provision of Article 4. The fact is that the law cannot be retroactively applied and that it is contrary to the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties, which we have recently adopted, especially to members from 2 to 7, where there is no discrimination, that everyone before the law is equal and that guaranteed human and minority rights cannot be restricted. Also, Article 9, where everyone has the right to judicial protection, Articles 17 and 18. - the right to a fair trial and to appeal; also Article 57, where the level of rights achieved cannot be reduced and no commission of any composition can decide on it, especially the commission of such composition, where the authority and validity are provided to the proposed people, who, under the Constitution and the Law on Judges, cannot do so. Article 126(4) Serbia's constitution is defined that the Constitutional Court judge cannot perform another function or professional activity, and neither can judges do other paid jobs. The composition of the commission is absurd also because members can only be MPs who are lawyers. What right do other MPs have, and what if there are no lawyers in the assembly? I am the work of this committee is not in line with our legal legislation. Our legislation is based on the fact that someone is innocent until proven guilty, and on the contrary, here, the commission and the greater are doing checks and giving notices to the means of public information, if the person does not give up his candidacy for a function or withdraws from office, where there is a lot of room for blackmail and pressure on all political opponents, and that, according to the Constitution and criminal laws, they are not allowed to defend themselves. The bill on liability for human rights violations, which is bad and unconstitutional, should be withdrawn from the procedure and the Socialists cannot accept some new violations of constitutional principles and rights, primarily to be chosen and elected. Let the elections be discussed and let the citizens carry out a lustration on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30326	The word is made by MP Dragan Kovacevic. The next reported word is MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30327	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, watching as a good part of the people's electors behave here on this bill of responsibility for human rights violations or lustration, I would just like to remind myself of some notorous facts. I'm sorry that those who left this room forgot or didn't want to hear and knew the real truth. I've had material here since 12th of November 2002. Unlawful spending of funds, etc., that amount represents a dinar equivalent to 179,526,000 German marks. This was determined by the budgetary inspection for the period 1996 to 2000. The ministry of justice and local self-government, to a little bit remind those who forgot, computer equipment worth 3,269,265 German marks were not recorded in their business books. I'm asking everyone here -- do these people still have to perform public functions, did anyone answer for these 12 years, from those who called me a domestic traitor, that I'm a sold soul, and now I hear it from congregation benches? May the one who says that in a fair job have earned what Dragan Kovacevic has sold. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Did you have the courage to report how much property you had before you became MPs? Was anyone responsible for the one-on-one irregularities in the show? Did any of the public function holders worry about the qualifications he used for normal and honest people? Prove your innocence and honesty is absurd. Unresponsibly, many have abused and abused, unfortunately today. It's enough to go out and say that, and that's what you did, and the more you plead, the more guilty you are. It is said here that this law will be applied retroactively. I have no reason to fear it. I'll set my own example. I rarely allow myself to speak in person. Three doctors who work in Chačka today have declared my father crazy and should be isolated from society. My father can't go back, but for others, to warn them, at least to apologize for what they did under someone's pressure. These are the things that every man here and every messenger should think about, that they never happen again, that nothing like this should ever happen to anyone else. I'll be a little personal - my mother dropped her noble soul three days after the bombing. They told me I was a NATO mercenary, that I was a traitor, without consequences, of any kind. I don't want any consequences, but simply, that everyone normal, that everyone in front of themselves and others takes care of what they say and what they do. Do you need to open DB files? I have no reason to be afraid to open or not open. Those who know the issue, they talk about whether to accept the fact and the thought that this law will be applied to us. I don't understand who. It should and must be called to mind one day and taken care of how someone behaves, what he says, and to be self-aware and responsible first to himself and then to others, both to the state and the people and to everyone else. People who have done things are now accusing. Nothing new, but they'll have to think well, because God's justice is still just God's justice, and everyone has to think about it well and think. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30328	You were a member of the government, the famous Minister for Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30329	Since I was a member of the Government of the People's Unity, the War Government, I have a duty to protect all ministers from that government and to report on the budgetary inspection that some of the money has been unintendedly spent. These money spent in your opinion was spent not on lunches, not on trips, not on vacations, but on the publishing venture of the century - printing the collected works of Laza M. Kostic. Laza M. Kostic is a man who is lastrated by those who are your grandfathers or fathers, you now want to lustrate someone else who will experience the fate of Laza M. Kostic, who died in exile. And I recommend you read ten volumes of Laza M. Kostic. If that's hard for you to read, you have the book Vojislav Seselj on 1,050 pages -- the history of Serbian nationalism, in which it is summed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30330	Same as a member of the government? The basis for the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30331	First, I was a member of the government, and secondly, as deputy head of the parliamentary club for the political party that was in the previous government, and here it was spoken of by the previous government and the previous government who, according to the report of the budgetary inspection, spent, according to the predecessor here, unintentional 180 million marks. Therefore, the foundation is as much as you want. When it comes to that consumption, first of all, one example. Always take it from yourself, since I was a minister. The budgetary inspection and that is also the need, tomorrow if this is accepted to form a lustration commission, that budgetary inspection should be first changled, and Minister Djelic, for ordering the budgetary inspection to lustrate, i.e. how to persecute former ministers. The evidence is that there was no criminal report, Zoran Angelkovic, as president of the government of Kosovo, signed 10 million for humanitarian aid to Serbs in Kosovo. Of course, Djelic wrote a criminal report. That was funny for the D.A.'s office, but it showed up 52 times in the paper. You spent 500 million on Serbs in Kosovo, only Serbs didn't get a dime. There's no criminal record. You're going to piss yourself off because you're persecuting people, because when you go to the SPS folder inspection now, the inspector says, because of that folder, because you're running a political campaign for two-and-a-half years against people who were in the previous government, because you arrested without a foundation of 10,000 people and brought in, because you've introduced an emergency counter-constitutional state, which is why you'll be lustrated, I guarantee you, because you're campaigning against political insinuation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30332	The next person to be declared is MP Milos Lukic, not present, has given up. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and the following is the MP Rada Bajic, declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30333	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for me as a representative of the largest opposition and, above all, of the patriotic and national political parties, and for me as a representative of someone who is fighting against, above all, communist evil, that is, members of my family, my ancestors, and then a representative of the party who wants, above all, to the whole Serbian people and who has never advocated a reckoning with political insolents, is humiliating that in a congregation meeting where I am an MP from the ranks of the SRS, there is a law on so-called. It was proposed by the people or the representatives of the political option I've been fighting, 13 years ago. It is not at all a matter of how business is allowed, whether it is the MP of this party or that party, as the chairman mentioned earlier, but about the legitimacy of this political option in the Serbian people, whether its representatives have ever come out on the line, which would have been said to demand and to gain the voter's trust, and how much memory I serve, many of you have jumped into the assembly benches, not knowing the political opportunities from before, and especially in multi-party Serbia since 1990, these are the apostates of the failed Alliance of Reform Forces, Ujdijevac, all of what marked their actions in terms of spreading anti-Serbian hysteria back 13 years. When it comes to human rights violations and the chapters clearly indicated by the promoter on human rights violations methods, I will also tell you, Madam Chairman, because you are a member of this party who proposes this law, since it is not your political commissioner, representative of the DOS Central Committee, Mr Ivan Andric, that the methods are the same as in the time of Joseph Broz and his communists, but you have perfected them up to the smallest details. You have perfected them by demonstrating it in the best way possible, in the MPs of the SRS, on those who love their country and their people and those who oppose lawlessness, who oppose the wills, the destruction of the legal order, the constitutional principles of democratic principles, and that is all that the SRS has stood for and since the first day then as the only MP, the Chetnik Duke, President of the SRS Prof. Vojislav Seselj, and then continued by representatives of Serbian radicals who, I would say, unworthy of getting a slap from the people in 2000 to be only in number 23. Because it has been shown that months have moved away and you have ruled that our strength is much greater and that we are truly protectors and interests of the people, both economic and social justice. The question is, who are these people who have been committing crimes against their own people for 60 years? These are the same people whose many modern - day descendants sit in congregation benches. It is a failed faction with the 8th session of the Communist Union, those are people who are under the name and last name, but as Mr. Cirkovic said and under conspiratory names, such as Socrates and others, have been spying on their coalition partners and people with whom they have proposed to come to power and people whose coat of arms they have exercised power in this country. These are the people whose fathers have committed the greatest crimes against the Serb people and as many fascists as they have committed such an unrecorded genocide in the city where I come from, killed more than 7,000 Serbs, left an unexposed question of how many communists killed Serbs, and precisely their descendants are now or will be headed by that lustration commission and so on. I would like to remind you of what is called spying, that is, the taste of those who, above all in a moral sense, are the worst possible representatives of the human species, and I will remind you of the last operation called the Sword and the actors of that operation. When the name Radon is mentioned in the operation, it is clear to everyone that it was a high-ranking police officer, or Chief Gendarmeria. When other names are mentioned, it is clear to everyone that they are talking about the Vice President of the Republic Government and so on. How, then, you who support such ones, you give them legitimacy and with which today, in such a frenzy way, by breaking all human and legal norms, you exercise power, you can advocate some moral cleansing. In the SRS since its establishment never, not at the head of the local committee, let alone the high-ranking party and MP, could find people who were morally defiled in any way. You don't have to, followers of the worst communists, the thitoists and others who are so evil to the nanonarod, and you've shown that for that you've been experts back two and a half years, to do no moral cleansing, especially in our ranks. We are proud of the fact that we wanted the conflicts between political parties and different options to take place exclusively here in the assembly benches, and never on the street, in any of our rallys, there has been any bloodshed. We wanted the People's Court to decide who would represent him here. I'm sure there's only one option in front of us, that's the one that I've been against for 13 years, and that's the promoter, now the GSS and everyone around it, and on the other hand it's us and all those who want well both the people and the state. I am convinced that the citizens will choose us, and that they will stamp you for all your actions and for what your ancestors have built, and which you are proud today and whose more perfect methods you use in the worst possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30334	You could have said something about the law. The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic, and the next one registered for the word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30335	Dear People’s MPs, we have before us a law that by no means could be found today in consideration. First of all, he's anti-constitutional, illegal, legally-technically incorrect, and worst of all, it's a selective law. Simply, this is in some new, more perfident way of introducing moral-political similarities into modern life and against what you did in your earlier appearances when you were the opposition most fought, which is that kind of resemblance. You've introduced it directly through this law now. Calling on the eastern countries and their laws is absolutely unacceptable for the reason that over a dozen elections have taken place here in the last 12, 13 years, and these elections have been legitimate, legal, and in the end, the absolute position and opposition have recognised the results of these elections. So it wasn't democracy or some regime of tanks and fighting on the street, simply by voting and by the will of the people. On the other hand, nowhere in democratic countries, I am convinced that you also know that even in the former Yugoslav republics, such a law has not been passed and it cannot be a liquid product of modern democratic movements, but this is always the product of revolutionary coups, only in those countries where such coups have taken place such laws have been passed. When I said unconstitutional and illegal, it's clear from all the provisions, they've been passed first and foremost by the Constitution and the law, the Charter that we recently adopted has been passed, starting with Article 2, 3, 5, 6, 17, 63, I've spoken to lawyers, I'm not a lawyer, but I always want to get a good look at the material that I'm discussing. They said they were surprised that someone like this could have been legally incorrect and contrary to the law to offer to the congregation. First of all, he says, an insight into the files. The insight into the files isn't material evidence at all. It's the assumption of someone's guilt, not the basic principle of justice - the conjecture of someone's innocence. I'd like to ask you something, for these two and a half years, how much of it has been cleaned up, if we're using documents from national security, court documents, or whether it's been written anywhere in the record of human rights violations in the last two and a half years, especially in those areas where opposition parties have won, especially the SPS. In those environments, which were not at the level of tolerance in political events, human rights were drastically violated through crisis headquarters. I once said, crisis headquarters was mostly attended by troubled people, who weren't good workers, or good people. An honest and honest worker will not be placed in such a group. They threw people out of the company who didn't make any mistakes, they knew they were running the company and what we got: what we violated their human rights, their families were left without existence. We left directly tens and tens of thousands of people out of work, because the people who came to run the company didn't know they were doing it, they ruined the companies. Crisis headquarters raided municipalities and threw out legally elected people. The patron was this congregation through the Ministry of Justice, they acknowledged the results of these incursions, they introduced their forced self - administrations and people who were legally elected to the street through crisis headquarters. It's a basic violation of human rights. When we talk about selectivity, a typical example, and I'm not going to say that maybe somewhere at the bottom of the soul the bill promoter didn't mean anything well, when he said, when he looked on the surface and said, he's going to answer these, they're all going to be lustrated, starting with those who are in power, to all those who are in the future proposed to some functions. Let's remember the Extraprofit Act. That's when we said the Extraprofit Act was absolutely selective, because it would only apply to members of the previous government. What happened? People who had tens of or more square meters of apartment were punished, and those on drugs, on fraud, on the black market made millions and millions of marks and invested in palaces, were nowhere to be found. Only those who may have had 30 or 40 squares of surpluses are punished, they say, incorrectly won. When all this is done and all those who were in the previous government are punished for having extra squares for housing, then that law has been abolished. It just makes us say it, and we think this is going to be a selective law. Where are those who have fallen into the congregation, the institution of the state, and set it on fire, and set the television on fire. They don't remember, they don't have any paper, they don't have a record of themselves. And if you, too, were to embrace all those who violated human rights, any moral and righteous man would accept it. Such a selective law, which will certainly be applied, is unacceptable to the SPS MPs and cannot support it like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30336	The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30337	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, at the end of the JJ century or more precisely, the last decade of the JJ century, Europe has been gripped by the wave of anti-communism. In fact, it's been replaced by a regime that, by its qualities, characteristics, has been against man, against every humanity, against all principles, something that, after all these years, is a distant past. We were all deeply convinced that the greatest evil called communism had passed. Past, taken off in most countries by the will of the people. But we are witnessing that at the end of that last J.J. century, there has been approximately evil such as communism, which is anti-Communism. What was involved in the fight against communism, so-called Communism. Anti-Communism, it has hurt many countries, many nations, we, whether we want to admit it or not, have been through all these trials. In Serbia, the multi-party began in the late 1990s, or early 1990s. This multi-party has good and bad sides. The multi-party system may have seemed a much worse solution at some point than Serbia had before. We're all aware of the fact that we're not moderate, we're not good enough judges to decide the character of both the good and the bad side of that system. We left it to history. History has taught us that after all these evils comes something that surpasses everything, which is neocommunism. Neocommunism came to Serbia on October 5th. What characterizes this movement or that system? By apparent multilaterality and madness. While communism was one-sided and one-minded, this is literally a mindless regime. What is the senselessness of this regime? A lot of things. First, through the bill's proposal, a reckless decision or a proposal by one, you can say freely, the marginal political parties, the parliamentary, or parliamentary majority in this assembly want to fight a fight that has not been recorded in the history of the Serbian people. Namely, the notion of change itself and the shift of power has been previously practiced in Serbia, by having in the past times examples of coming to power or by choosing a new government a complete administration or those at the service of the previous authorities, moving, moving, moving, solving their functions, but that went at some fixed pace, some normal procedure. What happened on October 5, 2000? By coming to power, DOS had the legality to do the same in Serbia, to change the full power and to keep his promise to the people he had given. This legality, or legitimacy, did not last long. There's been a DOS breakdown. DOS fell apart. Gentlemen, I always remind you of this pay phone, your name is DOS, and your last name is Vojislav Kostunica. That's how you came out to the citizens of Serbia under that name, and they gave you trust. You won't call yourself that anymore, or you won't have that last name. You have no legality, no legitimacy, no approval from the citizens. You now want to introduce a precedent, you want to do purification, lustration in your dictionary, how you use it in plain terminology. This term exists, gentlemen, only in two areas. There's lustration as a concept of medicine. It uses some preparations, which would be good if you, some of you, used it. He's having a mental cleansing. This kind of purification that you want to conduct in Serbia has not been applied anywhere. You're referring to legal and constitutional grounds, you're referring to some of the experiences of the Eastern countries. Take some, gentlemen, read, see what the East German experience is. The books were published about it. The opening of files, the launch of such shifts with the help of laws like this, caused major problems in East Germany. After so many years, they published books and books that it was all pre-planned by the CIA, the U.S. intelligence service, that the files were literally cut, furnished, that some people, then the regime, would be removed from power, muddled, condemned. How is this different from what was done in East Germany? Only by the name and last name of the promoter. Gentlemen, we have the courts, we have the judicial authorities, don't take your right to form a commission, to form a politburo, that commission has no foothold in the existing laws, nor in the Constitution of this state, nor in the Charter that you have brought, and we defend, because most of this assembly, as you can see, has no foothold. But you want it at all costs. Why do you want to do that? That's why you want to announce to all the bells that what was before was all black, and now there's a rebirth, and by coming to power, Serbia is reborn. Yes, gentlemen, that's right, if that rebirth is contained in containers, you can every day make sure that more and more Serbian citizens are sent to these containers. [[Applause to the MPs of the SRS.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30338	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30339	Mrs. Komic, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the initiative of the Civil League because the Civil League, its political essence, its political platform, is exactly what it says in this bill. It is their political, parliamentary, civil and every other right. My obligation and my right is to, based on the political programme of the party I belong to, oppose the arguments that I think are important and to try to challenge the proposed law, possibly earn the voice of one of you. From the point of view of procedure, rights and the Constitution, the law is immeasurable. We could talk about it, but that's not necessary. In 1954, the FNRJ adopted the Law on the Loss of Election Rights and Civil Rights, for the last time in one system, and you are all agreed on that, which was nepularistic and non-democratic. There are other mechanisms, political, legal, human, moral, civil, based on which it is possible to prevent what you want to prevent by law today in the process. There are different aspects and the real consequences of this law, if adopted, that as a dangerous legal tool they find themselves in the hands of people who have the right to not know or to be irresponsible and that, applying it, they are negating what is the subject of the bill - to violate the human rights of others and to do so with faith and belief that they are doing something good. I'd like to list two examples that are important, one for me personally, and the other one is general. I have already held that argument in the debate on the Telecommunications Act. One of the applicants of this bill is Honorable Professor Dragore Hiber. He's the chairman of the Telecom Management Board. So he has responsibility for what's going on in Telecom today, as well as yesterday. There are so-called. SUP's divisors. These are technical continents in which, without distractions, the workers of the BIA come daily, because they are the only ones who have the key to these rooms, and are intercepting the phone connections of their faces that are, in one way or another, interesting to them. It is a real basis that Mr. Hiber, the director of Telecom, should be given a member of the Telecom Management Board, that the Serbian government, that the police minister, should be lustrated. I'd like to give another example. On October 4, 2000, during the so-called Democratic blockades at the checkpoint in Konjevići, which is one intersection in Cačka, organised by DOS, have stopped the sanity vehicle CA-754-57. It contained a patient who had urgent instructions for an important health institution in Belgrade. Intoxicated by warm beer and fat roasting, the people who were at that barricade said that the dream with that patient couldn't go away because it wasn't an emergency. That emergency was my wife, and she died a few weeks later. They are responsible for this: DOS officials in Chačka, DOS officials in Serbia, persons who were there, at that barricade, I am responsible, in front of my son, to lute them morally and humanly, however you wish. Who has the right to take other people's lives into their own hands? Is that the object of lustration, too? Is it also the object of lustration when a doctor, at the first surgical clinic, says he can't operate because he has to go to the federal parliament? I have a name, and I have witnesses. Is that going to be an object of lustration, too? Don't get into this, because anything can come out of this. Lustration is a sword with two blades. In some other countries of the Eastern Pact, we've never been to one, the thing is quite different. After the downfall, so-called. East Germany has six million files left behind the Stasi. According to Mr. Goran Petrovic, former DS chief, in our government from 1993 to 1997 in Belgrade, only a few files were conducted, less than ten. Even if there's one -- there's a lot. But don't change the thesis. We weren't the state you represent us in this law. It wasn't the totalitarian system you wanted to prove. It is impossible to deliver October 6th today on May 29th because the optimal deadline for the adoption of lustration laws expired in the first three or four months in Serbia. I have no personal fear, nor any provision of the proposed law. I entered a family that cared about good education and relations with other people. But by adopting a law like this, we're going to get into a situation where good people, who just because of what they think or do differently, are going to be placed in one or another basket. The Socialist Party of Serbia is not afraid of this law. It will oppose this law if it is adopted in a way that will be recognizable. But the Socialist Party of Serbia will be able, when it comes to power, to abolish this law and prove to you that you did not rule democratically, that you did not create a democratic environment in Serbia and that you did not keep the promises you made when you entered the election campaign. Just one more line about the media and what works here. No media in Serbia announced yesterday that the head of Serbia's state received an audience with the Swiss ambassador. I want to know whether or not it belongs to this or that lustration, who lustrated the Swiss ambassador and who gave George Soros an advantage over an official representative of a neutral country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30340	National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30341	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, only a dozen minutes ago, I was in front of the Assembly Hall, and I found seven officers, unbalanced and armed. Article 235(3) states that authorised officials of state authorities cannot have access to the premises referred to in Article 1, which is the building of the National Assembly, or take any measure without the approval of the President of the National Assembly. I ask if the president of the National Assembly has called on the unformed persons, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, to be in the building of the National Assembly and for what reason or perhaps Mr Sutanovac, who pleads to be the first officer in the state. In any case, the Rules of Procedure have been broken, and the reason is unknown to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30342	You will be notified orally or in writing by the President of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30343	Another one in a series of laws that should mean approximately - new gods are offered a new sacrifice, and the new sacrifice is what will come out of this bill if it is adopted by chance. This law cannot be adopted and should not be on the agenda, although I am surprised that the president of the National Assembly did not reject such a proposal because it is offensive to the National Assembly. It is offensive in one part of the reasoning, where the first incorrect data is presented, and other information that offends the dignity of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. False data refer to a practice applied after the fall of the Berlin Wall in East Germany, and unfortunately there was no East Germany at that time, as it is not clear to the promoters. The second thing, in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the promoter lost the elemental criteria for a sense of belonging to a territory called the state, so he managed to specify some concepts such as denacification, defasification, and in our terms, that means desrbification. Desrbation has gone according to the system - everything the previous government had to commit to crime and benefit. Evidence of benefit was supposed to be a one-time tax law on extraprofits and extra estate. The evidence for crime was supposed to be the state of emergency and the abnormal link between representatives of the previous government and members of organised crime who participated in a bulldozer revolution on October 5th. Of course, it's all abnormal, incompatible, unrelated, and that's what this carved "Sabre" shows us, that she's pulled out, and she's going to cut the most likely hand of the one who took it out of the cover, not where it's pointed and pointed. The third thing, very important, is that all representatives of different political positions from the ruling position of the Civilian Union of Serbia have to be convicted, so if not in The Hague then within the Fifth Municipal Court, where there will be a special section for war crimes, and what is missed then the commission will be waiting to implement this dangerous deanification, and I remind the promoter that it would have to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for using these terms, because no condition has been met that the process, imposed in 1945 on Germany, is being conducted in Serbia. Not a single condition, and that's the insult that was made to the citizens. Furthermore, I would draw attention to certain indisputable facts to the legislators of this law. During 1999, while the Serbian Radical Party participated in power, an idea appeared among some parties or one party, then in power, to pass the Anti-Terror Act. You probably remember that in those provisions of the proposed law, drafts or reflections on the law, there were provisions that violate political freedoms. The Serbian Radical Party has prevented the law from being passed. Today, in DOS, no party prevents the adoption of an unconstitutional law, such as what is proposed. Another irrefutable fact, at the time some parties in power organized the stones of the Democratic Party's premises on Krunska Street. The Serbian Radical Party, a participant in power, condemned it. The Democratic Party came to power on October 5th and the first thing it did was initiate a procedure for the Serbian Radical Party to move out of the magistrate. If you're already talking about the lustration law, touch some morale, some of that political morality. I don't want to hold moral sermons, because it's not the task of politicians, and I won't object to anything whether it's moral or immoral, but just to remind you, in Articles 33 and 34 of this unconstitutional law, all high-level lawyers, experts, law professors, for the first time in our practice have set up two measures: one publication, and another ban on participation in political life. Then how come this law doesn't have retroactiveness? These measures are to be applied to events and something that was in 1976. Now, that's the point that needs to be put on, and I'm just surprised at those who are much bigger, stronger in DOS reforms, that they suffer these little ones, why they're towing them. You've all been written off, don't you see? Everyone, they just didn't let you know. The uninformed are gone. They brought the Rules of Procedure, violated all possible parliamentary rules, so they complain about the Rules of Procedure. Don't come to that situation in a few days. It's May 29th, don't forget, don't forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30344	The word is by MP Jovan Todorovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30345	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen, the more I read this law, the less I understand it. The truth is, I'm not an educational lawyer, but I could interpret so much as some of the formulas in this law, but going from one member to another, I just don't understand how this law will apply at all, if it gets any majority in this assembly. All I understand is that the law will apply for 10 years from the day of adoption and I can tell you that if the Socialists come back to power again, that provision of the law will not change. So, we're going to apply, too, and we're going to start maybe from 6 October 2000, so we're going to push until some 2013, until this law should be applied. It doesn't seem like the point. Citizens' Union MPs submitted this proposal, all signed, except for Mrs Natasha Micic, who is a civil union MP, as far as I know, the president of the Assembly and acting president of the Republic. Does this mean that she disagrees with this proposal or that this law is not legally regulated so that she can enter into this assembly procedure in the way he entered, especially by an emergency procedure. Turns out we've solved all the problems in the country, we're still missing the lustration law, and then there's a quiet Buck and there's no problem. Who's the "grandmother on the sticker" kind of thing? The DOS has been talking about lustration since October, and before that, it still takes him two and a half years to do what he promised the people. I can tell you that I would understand that this proposal came into assembly procedure, say, in February 2001. I would understand the motivation, I would understand some of your reasons that you spoke of publicly, but two and a half years later -- that means, in fact, for me, preparing for a political situation that will inevitably follow very quickly. I guess that's the story of the election and that this is one positioning and the Civil League this way. We have examples of the Democratic Party, which is launching an initiative to call a referendum on independent Serbia at a time when, in this House, the Constitutional Charter is adopted, at a time when, these days, so-called. harmonisation of relations with Montenegro, etc. Is that DOS? Will today, after Professor Simonovic, who is here honorably, for this speaker, say the reasons why he cannot possibly support this law, be more of those who will freely state their views on this law. Mr. Pajtic is the Master of Legal Science, I hope the future doctor and professor of the university, and he, on behalf of the DOS-Reform parliamentary group, supports this law. I simply cannot understand a lawyer who will justifiably submit several amendments that change the essence and show legal ignorance of those who have proposed such a law. For example, this law prescribes the obligation of the Constitutional Court judges to participate in the commission's work. What law can that do? Neither can this, for the Constitution has prescribed jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and of the Constitutional Court. The commission is becoming some sort of court, something's going to be tried. Do you have any record of these possible violations of human rights that will be subject to this law in the period from 1976 to today? Could the only one or the first source be some file in the BIA, as it's called today. We don't have an ombudsman law, but we do have the jurisdiction of that people's lawyer on this committee. Until we have a people's lawyer, we're going to have public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors involved in the work of this commission. I just can't understand it. Since when can one equalize the role of a people's attorney and a public prosecutor - in the territory. Finally, what is the consequence of this law? The consequence is that in a legal, cultural way, the candidate of the political party for MPs, which we do not smell, we do not tolerate or want in parliament, is forced to give up the candidacy, and that at the same time it is not the commission's obligation to prove that someone has violated human rights, but is the obligation of one who is suspected to prove that he is not. You're complaining about Broz's time, mentioning some international document -- the International Civil and Political Rights Pact of 1976. You're even saying it's an older act than all our laws, even the Constitution. Where's that? In Broz's time, there was a commission to examine the origin of the property, and only before that commission was it suspected that he had acquired illegal property that he had to prove that it was not true. The commission had no obligation to prove that he had acquired unlawfully. So here and here. It is understood that I am guilty because I belong to a political party which is my problem, because we want, in a way, to present it to the public first in black. That's why this threat that the commission will determine the means in which it will announce that he and he violated that and that human right. It's still missing that based on these provisions, which we have under the law, you're saying that human rights violation is that someone's been working on a "red letter" etc., so he can't be a candidate for an MP. Interestingly, for all other places between five and 19 there is some procedure, there is some procedure, the consequence is that this must be withdrawn from that place if the Constitutional Court finds, on the basis of the appeal, that it has violated human law. The Constitutional Court is not in charge of this at all, it cannot be given that authority or obligation. All right, Mrs Gordana Comic, MP of the Democratic Party, noticed that it was the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, if at all his, but somehow more appropriate to the Supreme Court, rather than to the Constitutional Court. But only the candidate for the MP has no possibility that, when he lodges an appeal, he will continue to be a candidate, so if that Supreme Court defines that he has committed a violation of human rights, then, let's say, he will cease the mandate, if elected, but the matter is to prevent him from being a candidate at all. That's where we're gonna run into a lot of trouble. Be assured that at least half of those who will be lustrated in this way will be present or former members of the ruling parties in this country. Take the rights of a citizen to watch, say, a TV broadcast from this congregation. So isn't the right to be denied by the state institution, such as television, citizens in Serbia to watch TV and listen to parliamentary debate on the laws that life means, and there's some RTS board of directors who decided there's no interest in TV transmission. Are we one day going to lute these members of the board of directors according to the provisions of this law, not to discuss other possible situations? I think it is wise for citizens' union promoters, respecting the dignity of this assembly, respecting the legal profession, to be surprised that this was signed by Professor Hiber, I don't think he's read this, withdrawing this law from the procedure, and admitting that they haven't done anything that would, at this point, be useful to Serbia, and particularly acceptable to most MPs in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30346	The word is from MP Ljubomir Kragovic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. After him, the word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30347	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the law of responsibility for human rights violations - how proud that sounds. Just to remind you that you're late with this law. When the alleged UN peacekeeping forces came to Kosovo and Metohija, they immediately applied the lustration law. It was enough for any Shiptar, a member of any non-Serb community to point out -- this Serb killed my uncle, robbed my house -- he went to jail. That's how hundreds of Serbs are in prison today. After two years, they lie down and then they're released without any guilt. You have hundreds of cases like this. This is something like that. Meanwhile, 55,000 UNMIK and KFOR troops are present at the time to protect no more than 55,000 Serbs, as they were no longer in Kosovo. There's been a lot of things that you all know: 1,300 kidnapped, 1,500 killed, 250,000 exiled. French soldiers went from house to house in Vucitrn and drove Serbs out of houses and apartments. Will you lute those who have committed these crimes in Kosovo? Are you going to lute Kusner, Hackerup and Steiner? Will you lute those who forced Serbs to register, who forced Serbs to go to local elections, to go to elections for the province's assembly. Are you going to luxuriate these people? Are you going to lute those DOS leaders who took the money and in return forced the Serbs to go to the election, both of them? In the end, since this is anti-Serbian law, and I am a criminal by Soros and I violate human rights, because I want to live in Kosovo and Metohija, I ask you to apply this law to me first and to lute me, because for me it would be honor and pride, not just for me, but for my whole family and for all my descendants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30348	The word has been issued by MP Bora Stanimirovic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the assembly majority had a historic chance to finally draw the line today and prevent all those conflicts in Serbia that have been since the Kosovo Battle, and on top of that, especially those conflicts between Karadjordjevic and Obrenovic, conflicts between informers and communists, conflicts between Chetniks and partisansans, and now, if adopted, conflicts between lustrators and lustrated. I want to say this precisely because of the fact that it is present, which is one mood that is present among the people, that in this way, practically, it wants to increase the political persecution of the people at the moment the elections are in sight. There's no other reason. Did the international community put pressure on it or do it today? Starting from Article 11, which releases many of the functions of those suspected of performing acts or misdemeanors, however, I would paraphrase something in the style of David Strpce and say - thank you to the merciful government and this glorious parliament for freeing us from all difficult functions and obligations, the function of MPs, the President of the Republic, the office of directors of enterprises, schools, institutions, board members, the office of dean and rectors. Thanks for everything. At the same time, when the people learned the other day that this lustration law would finally come into effect, he began to weep with great joy, and he could hardly breathe with great satisfaction. This so much before it practically comes from those laws that are difficult to identify, especially when it comes to people who have not sinned about it. After such a law on lustration, nothing will be difficult anymore. It won't be difficult for him either because they sold him the company, it won't be difficult for him because he lost his job, it won't be difficult for him because he can't feed his family, but that's why the ruling majority passed a lustration law. I don't know why this time period has been so short since 1974. Why don't we go back in time, much earlier? Why don't we start with Lazarus? Why did Lazar Hrebeljanovic, when he knew that 100,000 Turks were going to Kosovo, when he knew that there were only twelve thousand soldiers, stood up against a powerful enemy, a great Ottoman empire who wanted to create a new world order? It is likely that both these and previous authorities have hindered someone from creating such a world order. Perhaps this law, under the pressure of the public, is also the result of such understanding of things, and of such understanding of the country and of such understanding, first of all, patriotism. If we want to forget our history, then this law will allow us to increase all these conflicts and all these antagonisms. That's why I would have just finished if this had to be accelerated. You remember when the Germans wanted to shoot some Roma, and then they stalled enough with that shooting, and then one Roma stood up and said, "Come on, please, sir, shoot us as soon as possible and let's go home." I would ask you to pass this law as soon as possible, so we can conquer power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30350	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Next reported is MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30351	Now that it's already clear that it's only a matter of two minutes, I'm really in the middle of a dilemma about whether to say something that will remain striking or start legally elaborated by this law. In fact, this isn't some law, this is something that isn't suitable for any legal system and anyone who allows himself the luxury of signing a law like this, I think he's putting his legal reputation on a very big test. People, if this is election preparations, you're not good at it, just like you're not good at ending congregation transfers, it's no good either. It won't bring you any positive points, it'll bring positive points to us, and from that point of view, maybe we should be in favour, but when I look at the better proposed text as a lawyer, I can't help but mention a few things. (I'm a lawyer, and whoever's interested can come and check at any time.) First, why do you view the human rights corps from only one aspect? Well, there is not only the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, there is also about economic and social, at the same time brought - in 1976. What do you think, that human rights corps is just what suits you? Will those who have violated economic rights be lustrated? You don't know? Read it a little bit. Why is this law limited to civil and political rights only? How are we going to lustrate those who have kept us under sanctions for ten years? How will we be able to treat them, why we keep them or receive them here as the greatest friends of the Serbian people, and they are our greatest enemies. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Never mind, as soon as you can question the election, until it's too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30352	The SPS parliamentary group has used the time allowed by the Rules of Procedure. Since there are no more reports of a word, I ask if representatives of the parliamentary groups appear? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30353	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a law that has been announced in fact for two and a half years. As of October 5th, it is announced that one such lustration law will be passed. I have to be honest, most of the MPs and opposition MPs and people who sincerely think about Serbia's future were convinced that this law would not come on the agenda. I am convinced that this law would not even come to the agenda if Mr. Soros did not come to Belgrade, but after Mr. Soros came to Belgrade, of course the ones he financed, likely those who had obligations to him, forced them to carry out that obligation and, of course, we came to Soros Law, i.e. The lustration law. Of course, anything is possible and those who have announced the law, so now they are arguing whether they were for the law or not, they have probably come from a logical assumption, that there is no need for a lustration law because two and a half years are all over the government to repress against political opponents of the opposite political orientation, especially political opponents who were in the previous government, who are now representatives of opposition options. When you read this law you will always ask whether it is retroactive or not, but let's imagine what the consequences will be even if this law is passed. Let us put aside even if he is not constitutional, because many of the laws adopted in this assembly lately are not constitutional, they have no constitutional basis, for most of the laws are even ministers who have proposed it, not MPs or parliamentary groups or some past political parties, agree that they have no political basis, but they adopt. Let's just remind ourselves of the law that this Serbian assembly passed three months ago, a law on criminal proceedings that absolutely violates human and civil rights, and now even the minister of justice and the Serbian government agree that the law violates human and minority rights. Who's going to be lustrated by that law? All those who voted for that law. Fortunately, of course, there's a list of who's voting for that law. This implies that the first to be luted, to stop their mandate, are MPs of positions who voted in favour of the Criminal Procedure Act, which violates human and minority rights, and there is no abuse. So, everyone completely agrees, the OSCE agrees, the minister agrees that the law is contrary to the Constitution and that it violates human and civil rights, that it is contrary to the Constitutional Charter, that it is contrary to the Charter of Human and Civil Rights that has been adopted. If so, the commission should only find out, and in essence under this law, the commission should not be involved, because MPs are aware that they have violated all these laws, and by that logic it would be logical, not to wait for a new parliamentary mandate to run, but not to run at all, i.e. to resign because here, already by pressing the key here, they violated human and minority civil rights. Is that gonna happen? It will not happen because MPs think they will also get a new mandate, that they will be in parliamentary benches because they represent the parliamentary majority and because they will choose a panel to deal with lustration. What are we going to get next on this committee? We're going to get that famous book about Serbian dissensions, about the Serbian charter, about them starting to deal with each other from work, so the professors are going to write about how this very dean, who is now a dean at some college, once received someone over the line to lay down, some student, and thus in fact endangered human and civil rights on this. Then he'll be on the committee for the next few months with a few tens of thousands of letters and documents, talking about what Marco is, and what Janko was doing today. You and the Security Agency aren't the only ones who do what they do, and you spend a lot of money on me, because some Branko, some Max, some Laufer, so Zoran was here, so he was there, and he did it on July 22, 2002, so he did5. August 2003, that, so I was with this, so I said that. Why do you want to spend money on it, because I'm going to tell you what I'm doing, why I'm standing by, everything here for a pay phone, because there's no reason to spend money on this kind of paper, and then you're still talking about how I'm not going to do it, then I'm going to have to tell you what you've formed from this wing, they've come out a little while ago, and I'm going to turn out to be affirming them about it, anyway, no problem, I'm going to tell you, there's no reason to spend money. But there's no problem here in Brank, Maxi and the others, here's the problem who ordered it, who gave a warrant to those people to deal with it, who's giving a warrant to a financial officer to come and tell them - I have to file a criminal report, because it belongs to the SPS, who's giving the judge a verdict because he says - I have to, I'm going to lose my job; who's giving the order to the prosecutor, because he says - I'm not going to be appointed by the government as a deputy prosecutor. If these people are going to be lustrated by this, that's what it's all about. You're gonna say it's not like that, you want me to bring you a list, I said yesterday, a woman took the complaint to the tax administration with a folder, it happened to be a SPS folder, and the clerk told her - you better return that complaint, this folder is your problem, and that's why you have a report. That's what this is about. Is that why you're writing this law for whom you write the law? You want to eliminate someone? Eliminate him in a different way, beat him. Will the MPs, earlier on, be here talking about the Rules of Procedure that we spoke of, who voted for the Rules of Procedure which is the opposite of the Constitution, and I said in the previous debate that the Constitutional Court ruled that the opposite is that it prohibits an MP as an individual that he personally gives amendments, rather than an MP group, will they be lustrated, will you lute yourself for that? It's all a violation of human and civil rights, it's a violation, it's what you wrote here, by pressing the button whether you participated, contributed or were present. You were directly involved because you pressed the button and voted for the appropriate solution. Secondly, of course, will those who do everything to make a single company, or one company, with several thousand workers, close down, take away businesses, keep workers out of work, and, of course, this economy remains poor, because they do not work. You know for a fact that you've been expelled in two and a half years by 40,000 people just because they belong to other political options. I warn you that you are making something that will come to you from your head and that will bring anxiety into Serbia, which will bring divisions, which will turn Serbia into a country where they will write against each other, write and gossip, and continue to be divided. Do we want to make a unity in the national and national interests in this country, whether we want to look towards Europe, towards the European Union, whether we want to watch what we share or want to continue political reckonings in Serbia. You want further political accounts in Serbia. That's the essence of this law. Of course, that's what whoever suggested it wants. And the GSS is not concerned at all, because they don't have their people on the ground, they don't have a network, they don't have members of the GSS by municipal organisations, what kind of problems they have there, it's none of their business, because these conflicts on the ground they won't feel. They will feel serious political parties, members of serious political parties, regardless of whether they are positional or opposition, who have their members, the organisation, their people who have worked in these parties for years and who will work for years to come. So I think it would be good and useful, first of all for DOS - Reform, for the first time I hear here that he supported this law, to vote against it now in principle, and it would be best, and of course, I don't believe that he has the courage to withdraw this law. We're not going to take part in the vote on this law, we're going to go out because we can't be in the O.R. until we vote for this law, or we're going to sit in the O.R., because history is going to show that it's a random year in this law, that it's not 1974, but it's 1947, and whoever wrote it knows that it needs four and seven, so he wasn't sure what the first digit is, and what second, and left it still to be the first week and four, and basically he meant 47. I think we should write an amendment that applies since 1947, it's the best 1947, before Informbiro, and since then we've been going nice, nice, to scale up and share this Serbia again. I hope that as soon as we adopt this law, that those who have ordered, issued a warrant, a suggestion, a proposal from the President of the Assembly, i.e. V.D. The President of the Republic to impose a state of emergency, that they have led him to do so, that first they will withdraw from the political scene, and then, of course, the perpetrator of the duty that has imposed the emergency state of the opposite constitution. This all says to what extent this law can harm all of us, Serbian citizens, to bring anxiety and new divisions to Serbia, and nothing good in economic, political, or in any other sense can bring.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30354	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30355	I'm done. Thank you very much. Reduce these books and throw ourselves at laws that will hire, not fight people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30356	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have not used this right, applying for a word? Please, the word has been made by MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30357	Madam Chairman, if you had put on the agenda a draft of my law on the right to have files available, you would now have in voting this law the support of the New Serbia parliamentary group. However, the support of the parliamentary group will not be left behind if we receive written and firm guarantees that a law on the full disclosure of files with the right to availability and use will indeed be passed before this law is applied. The government regulation that allegedly put these files on the right of consumers, in fact, reparated that right. So one-third of the text in the file is covered, one-third. Those footnotes, not Rade Markovic, my dear denominator, were removed by the same UDB, who is now running the same service. If it were possible for the same UDB and the same UN to remain, Dragi Jovanovic, head of UDB, would remain after Nedic's capitulation, would remain. He even offered himself to the communists and he said, "I'm a professional man, I'm at your service." The Communists didn't believe him. I ask who trusts the communists now. They're trusted by this, unfortunately, uncommunist government. What do we do? I have to do it with grief in my soul and pain in my heart to admit it. That's the way it is. Unfortunately, I notice there are simply nostalgics here, those who were defeated at the eighth session. I thought October 5th was defeating the eighth session and defeating the eighth session, but some don't. Some believe October 5th is the reaffirmation of those defeated forces from the eighth session. What do we do? That's what they're really ruling right now. One of them is even the Deputy Prime Minister. In all parliament, he has the support of only one MP or MP, as these feminists like to say. I'm not sure how long that support will last. What if, for example, that MP cancels love and does not support Mr. Korac, will Koraq stay in the government? It will. No one's gonna ask his question. Who likes Korach? Who loves Korach? It's a test question, a question for you and deliver answers to the MPs who defend it, only she can collect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30358	I warn you to get back on the agenda and take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30359	I'm going back, I didn't actually go off topic, I was just obliged to answer questions from the audience, that's what I'm expected to do. I said my position. I suppose this law can be broken. I suppose if the Assembly pleads, before I bring this matter to the file. Once again, given that the Constitutional Court is now with all MPs, right, guaranteeing the mandate safely, I ask the MPs to vote freely on their consciences. All those who vote against opening files, they have reason to. So they're just suspicious. That's a logical conclusion. Demonstrate your goodwill by, say, convincing Mr. Sutanovac, he is now the new Mega, that this law comes as soon as possible and is adopted in the Assembly, before this lustration law begins to apply. Mrs. Micic, you will not be angry with me, I must express my disagreement over the relationship with Professor Simonovic. Mrs. Micic, Professor Simonovic is the legend of Belgrade University and the legend of Serbian parlameterism. Respect his gray hairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30360	Just brief information. So, the decision to include this law in the agenda was made by the National Assembly, and I wasn't the proposer of the agenda, but it was the National Assembly, and it wasn't the audience, but the National Assembly made a decision to include this law in the agenda. You, too, could have, had you submitted for the urgent procedure of the law opening the file, the National Assembly would have had to declare it. Therefore, it would be good to meet the Rules of Procedure, to respect him, and then there would be no problems and misunderstandings. Does anyone else sign up for this agenda point? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Branko Ruzic and Miomir Ilic. Does anyone sign up for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30361	I suggest that this article be deleted, because as it's written, it means nothing. What could possibly be interpreted, it is certain, that something that is unconstitutional and there is a great danger, if voted, would then, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, independent MPs, who have their mandate, become responsible for the brutal violation of human rights for which they are responsible under the Constitution and by law. The promoter came to the sense that he was going with the law, the first member, and he said, "This law is being governed, or determined." Such a thing has not yet been recorded in our legislative practice. If the law regulates something, then it states what is being arranged. By law, something to determine, it's impossible. Probably a new writing school teaches us that this is also possible, as just a letter on paper, without any particular meaning. What did the promoter think of? It means to arrange and determine "forms and visions of human rights violations". First, human rights in our new documents, and possibly also in the new draft constitution of the Republic of Serbia, will not be defined only by those two words - human rights, human rights, human and citizen rights and perhaps national minorities or minority rights, as it is today defied. I must tell you, what you consider to be forms and aspects of human rights violations has already been contained in almost all of our regulations that had constitutional basis for adoption. That's why there's a criminal law, that's why there's a set of civil law laws, a law on public information. So there are special laws that are arranged, let's say, a way to achieve some freedoms. If you are solving this law as it seems and as it manifests a breach, I must warn you that it is already prescribed, defined and aligned with this international act that you are calling upon. I have to tell you, our legal practice, our legislation is up to two and a half years ago in front of Europe in every way. And Tito was smart, and he wasn't going, but he was sending almost all the experts from our colleges to Germany, France to take what was most modern and to build. He needed it to wave, but it exists regulated and prescribed. Next, you say you're editing and determining "the person to whom the procedure is being conducted". The regulation that prescribed the punishment for something, which is a violation of human rights, determines who can be the responsible person and the doer. Why are you pulling out a special category of people? Everyone is universally guilty and everyone is universally responsible if they have violated human rights. You're instituting discrimination. How can you do that? The following is "the principles and rules of procedure". Check your bill, you don't have a single member that says "principles". You don't have a principle. As far as the rules are concerned, which rule you have - that the debate will be unpublished, and as an exception, it can be public. Where did you learn that?- I'm sorry. Why are you violating human rights? What are you forcing us to violate human rights and violate the Constitution? The following is "the composition, jurisdiction and procedure of the competent authorities". You're inserting judges of the Constitutional Court both in the first degree and in the second degree. I don't know who gave you your diplomas?- I'm sorry. In the end, it writes "measures expressed to persons found to have violated human rights"; this is a law that for the first time prescribes measures. It's retroactivity. If a man had known that these measures were special, the ones you're predicting, maybe he wouldn't have done that act, which you're now inventing as an act. So desrbification is impossible. Take care, it's May 29th.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30362	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30363	Serbian Radical Party MPs have requested that each member be deleted individually from this bill, in order to constantly convince you that this is not the way you should go and that this law is withdrawn from the procedure, that you do not allow yourself, possibly because of some party discipline, to decide and vote for something that will then, as an evil fate, burden you all your life. My colleague Krasic has made it quite professional to explain why some terms cannot be used in this law and why this law, even if we wanted to discuss them in a different way rather than politically, would require certain changes. First of all, I'd stay on constitutional grounds for passing this law. That was another reason why the speaker of the assembly should have returned this bill to the legislator to complete it, and that is why we should not call it. The member of the Constitution to which the motionor is called is Article 72 paragraph 2 only talks about the law being passed by the National Assembly. Now we can also pass some law regarding Japan or the sending of alien ships, even though we don't have them. But there's nothing in the Constitution about this, and there's one law like this we couldn't possibly pass. In the first indent, which determines the forms and aspects of human rights violations, as the basis for the examination of responsibilities, I must remind you of the human rights, as well as all the forms and aspects of human rights, are prescribed by our Constitution, and the Constitution adopted in 1974, as well as the 1990 Constitution, and the 1992 Constitution, as well as the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which, I don't know why, the promoter doesn't mention later in Article 3, when it states what is considered, in terms of this law, human law. The promoter says that, in this sense, human rights are all rights foreseen by the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, which ratified the then-SFRJ, the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, which were laid down by the SFRJ Constitution in 1974, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia brought in 1990, and as if nothing had changed since then. The proposal has been submitted since 14 May 2003. In the meantime, we have a state union, we have the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, we have the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which we have discussed here and which you have adopted, and in accordance with which this law on responsibility for human rights violations should also be. The constitutional basis would have to be a provision of the Constitution which gives rise to the power to regulate a particular area. This is not contained in Article 72(1) point 2. To regulate areas called lustration, not only does there not exist a constitutional basis, but almost from all the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia insist that it is against the constitution, if we look at it alone, and it is in accordance with all these other acts; I must note that the 1974 Constitution of the SFRY, although, in our opinion, the worst possible constitution, has already recognised all those rights concerning human rights and freedoms, which later appear in the constitutions that follow, and even in this international pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30364	I'm warning you of an exaggeration of the time foreseen for discussion. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30365	The next amendment submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia is identical - it is deleted - it is no matter which amendment I will talk about, so I will now declare this, as is true for the next amendment. What does this member regulate? It was given in the very title of the law. There is no need for further cartoons to make that clear, and especially because it proves that this law is unconstitutional. The elements that this law needs to resolve are nowhere, neither in the Constitution nor in the Constitutional Charter, nor in the Charter of Human and Civil Rights, adopted by the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. I would also ask the MPs of the opposition, but also DOS MPs, who, in the end, worked the most, which led to the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Minority Rights, thanks to their votes and thanks to the work of their representatives in the constitutional commission, because the Socialist Party of Serbia in the Constitutional Commission of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly did not participate. Did they adopt that constitutional charter in order or because Solana brought it, or because they really, honestly think that it should be respected here? The Charter of Human Rights and Civil Rights is a small constitution, so did the people of the Constitutional Commission bring it just like that, because they had to or because they honestly think it should be respected? If these two acts were to be respected, this member, and therefore this law would not come to the agenda here, in the Serbian Parliament. It has already been said that the Constitution has decided that the Assembly is passing laws. That's not controversial. According to that logic, we will begin to pass laws here on the protection of the names and works of each individual MP who votes for these unconstitutional laws. I think it would be a good idea to make a list of names and pass a law on the protection of the names and works of each individual MP who votes for a law that is not constitutional and thus would be protected from any future possible lustration, because that is what the Constitution foresees. The constitution provides for the law to be passed. It is therefore possible to pass all kinds of laws. It's not the essence, it's not the spirit of the Constitution, it's not the intention of the Constitution, it's not the intention of the constitutionalist. Perhaps the intention of this constitutionalist and the present congregation, when it adopts a new constitution, will provide for it and imagine that such a law can be passed, but the existing Constitution, its spirit, its essence, what it writes, will not foresee it. Then, when it comes to the composition and jurisdiction of the commission, I think it would be good, if you already form something like this, and of course it's totally insane, that it's not a commission, but an agency, because if we have a sugar shop, we have a tobacco agency, we have an alcohol agency, it would be our turn to have this lustration agency, and then it would be a place to arrest a number of people. Third, term of office. Why six years? You add up the current two years and you know that there are two years until the end of the term, you can't go on, for another year and a half, there has to be a Parliament and four more years where you won't be in power, and you do six years' term and then you count on those next elections to come back, so that you can choose that. It doesn't make sense. Why six years? If four years are the term of office of the Assembly, it would be logical for four years to be the mandate of this one, but don't forget, the commissions are being changed and whether a person has had a longer or shorter term. They must be changing, and Sinisha always stays and it's not disputed. Synisa predicts in time who will be in power, that's where she is, that's fair, and that's politically rational. I respect that and it should be supported. There's no dispute. Finally, when it comes to measures, it is really against all these documents on human and civil rights, and I suggest not only once again that this article is not accepted, that it should be deleted, as we have also proposed with the amendment, but that all the members be deleted in time and that we resolve the suspension of the debate on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30366	Replica, MP Sinisa Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30367	Just a brief comment on what Mr. Wanga was saying. Dealing with political futuristism is a truly grateful job, but I want to say that it is a real seriousness to have the possibility of predicting serious analysts and political forecasts, so that the group that I belong to is a pragmatic story that works in the interest of Serbia's future and will always know that it does what is good for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30368	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Veroljub Arsic and Hranislav Peric submitted. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30369	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has given up on this law to correct and bring order and amendments only requires that individual members of the bill be deleted. I specifically asked for Article 2. The bill deletes, where it is said that the responsibility for human rights violations marks the procedure for examining and determining the human rights violations laid down in this law. The question arises who should question such a responsibility. According to the bill, it's supposed to be a commission. Now the question is why. These human rights are guaranteed by the Constitution of the SRJ, the Constitutional Charter and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Every violation of the Constitution is a criminal offence, so the question arises that if someone violates the Constitution and commits a crime, why does not regular courts judge him for these crimes. It seems that this authority aims to remove political scenes from politically insubordination and insubordinate opponents, and evidence of a possible violation of human rights cannot be obtained on the basis of materials supplied by some kind of Alexa Zunic, as such evidence would fall into the water in the ordinary court procedure. It would probably be some kind of similar charge, which you wrote against Vojislav Seselj and sent Carla del Ponte just to sign one of those charges, to get Vojislav Seselj out of here in The Hague. Now it seems to me that MPs who don't think like you and who pose danger to you are going to pass such a law, so the commissions will act as courts and based on evidence supplied by some Alexa Zunic to bring judgments. The question arises where you get the moral right to put such a law in the process at all, especially the Civil League of Serbia. Here's one of the simplest examples of human rights violations of freedom, thought and speech. Yesterday I received a warning just because I expressed my doubts about the correctness of the electronic system, and today some other colleague of mine, only from another parliamentary group, expressed the same suspicion and did not receive any warning. Even so, watch what you say, you'll get a warning. It's, like, a violation of human rights. The violation of human rights is that, although every citizen has the right to choose and be elected, it is guaranteed the right under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again this same Civil Union and the president of the National Assembly are violating the Constitution and civil rights by not discussing the elections for citizens to say what they think about the current government. I must say that I liked one part of the law, especially when it comes to human rights violations to be accused and those who were tasters, because knowing what the political situation was about all of it from 1991 to 1998 and knowing what your relationships were, in particular Dragoljub Micunovic, Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica, Goran Svilanovic, Vladan Batic, Dusan Mihajlovic is a story for himself, with Jovic Stanisic, then head of the Resor of the State Security Service. You were tasters then, and who worked for Stanisic during that period worked for the State Security Service, and who worked for the State Security Service worked for the regime, as you call the former government. But when I think about it, we don't need to apply one of these laws at all, because what kind of people are you going to do in the next election very quickly, you're just going to disappear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30370	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has been given by MP Hranislav Peric, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. I suggested that Article 2 be deleted because the responsibility for human rights violations, as well as the procedure for determining and expressing measures for the possible violation of human rights, is already governed by positive regulations. That's why we don't need to pass other laws. According to applicable laws, this matter could be regulated. I would understand that a larger party has proposed this law, but I don't understand that the law suggests a party of several MPs, which is often said in our van party. The lustration law will be implemented by the commission and the proposer should not believe this time that the courts are doing this, because in fact, the judiciary should be independent, cobayage, but the delegated people from the court will work in the commission, and the commission can also be a party. In my opinion, this commission will be a private political court of state officials and will exclusively deal with people who will compete in the elections for certain functions. My proposal is to delete this member, and it's best for you to delete this whole law, because it's a long list where you've violated all human rights, and in a short time it's a lot. From the presentation of the head of the DOS-Reform Parliament Club, Mr Pitiæ, as far as I know about politics, it is clear that there will be revenge and rematch here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30372	The People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30373	It seems that the largest political party within DOS -- Serbia's Reform -- does not realize that one small political party is dragging it into an ambis. When Mr. Lazar Marjanski proposed to the Serbian Radical Party the Syrian law, as an elemental disaster, we were all present and explained the bill, defending the bill. Now, here is from this large parliamentary group of the Civil League, I think there is Mr Kesic, Sima Radulović and Mrs Natasa Micic, of course, who should listen and defend this law. Ivan Andric threw us a bone and went to have a good time. It seems to be the sole purpose of passing this law. Article 3 whose erasure we're looking for could really sound like collective self-judgment. We are those who have no human rights so far - no constitution from the near past, from 1974, 1992 - respected, or our society has respected it; to a great extent human rights have been violated. As Mr Kragovic, an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, said, everything seems to us that this responsibility will be broken in the state of Serbia for allegedly violating human rights in Kosovo and Metohija, and perhaps in some other places, because it is obvious that Mr Soros has given some other tasks related to Serbia's future constitution, for Vojvodina, for Sandzak. We read two or three days ago that Novi Pazar became Tokyo. He became Tokyo at the price of a square meter.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30374	Please return from the New Market to the agenda theme. You've reached New Market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30375	It's not far, it's not Washington, it's the state of Serbia. The price of a square meter is 8-15.000 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30376	The second time I'm warning you to get back on the subject, you've got an amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30377	I'm talking about the amendment and I'm talking about collective self-judgment. Now someone's talking about some human rights being disrespected by this country or that, God forbid, they don't respect each other today. Today many human rights are not respected, starting with this Parliament and beyond. It will be the subject of the responsibility and subject matter of regular courts. In our opinion, this will certainly not be the object of lustration or any part of the court will be dealt with. In this country, there are courts that, based on their own local and real jurisdiction, under the Criminal Law, can also work to impose adequate sanctions, which are much more difficult than those you foresee here. Whether someone will be able to find himself in a leading state office, whether he is an MP or not, may of course have enormous importance for whoever is involved, may have very negative repercusions on certain political parties, but for individuals, I think it will be much harder for them to stay in prison for many years, which, thanks to Mr. Batic, and how they equip, the funds for this to come from abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-29-0.u30378	Anybody else answer for a word? There are no applications under this amendment. On the basis of Article 81. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly also determine tomorrow as a working day, so we start at 10.00 hours, since we have an obligation to finish a regular session by Saturday at midnight on May 31st. We'll approach the vote, tomorrow we'll see how the debate is going, probably tomorrow night. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic system, we have established that there is a quorum needed for the work of the Assembly. The meetings of the Assembly committees are under way, so I apologize for waiting a little longer to determine the quorum. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Marko Jaksic, Svetlana Stojanović, Kasa Jožef, Đura Lazic and Stevan Lilić, and Zivica Predojev, Teodora Vlahović, Ratimir Svirčević, Dragan Jočić and Dusan Petkovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LJUDJE LJUDSKI Rights LJUDJA (specificities) To Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Blažić and Radojko Petric. Do you want a word? Here you are, MP Branislav Blazic.
