ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29754	Ladies and gentlemen, this assembly is devised not only by the fact that important decisions are made in this assembly, where they should be, but also by making those decisions by someone else, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this assembly is just a paramount for deciding. Maybe it's justifiable, maybe now TV can disrespect it so there's no TV transmission. Gentlemen, the ruling majority of us have abolished the democratic foundations we've fought for over the past years, you've abolished TV transmissions. However, they will know all that they appreciate Serbian citizens and will know that the prices and role of those who have devised the work of this assembly. No important decisions are made here. Today, however, we have a proposal from the government, which we must support as such. At the same time, this proposal cannot free the government of responsibility, which consists of more than two years to put this law on the agenda. This law was supposed to be before us at least two years ago, not two or three or six months ago. This is evidence of the alleged reform course of the ruling majority in this assembly, consisting of MPs and ordinary citizens. This is proof of all reformity, because everyone knows and no one will challenge, not even people who are not economists and have nothing to do with finance, that in one country, which tends to be rich, strong, democratic, the base of economy, industry, economic activity. There have been no significant shifts over the past two years, nor have there been serious strategies to revive economic production in this country, to allow and speed up the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and private enterprises. All these activities mainly consisted of good wishes and words, and as we learned last week from Mr. Vlahovic, the government only adopted the "Strategy of Small and Medium Enterprises Development". I repeat, two years after she was mandatory and what she had to do by all her principles and by her primary responsibility - and this was supposed to be done in early 2001! Someone's gonna say, "Better ever than never." However, not only is time money, but this missed time cannot be compensated in any case. That time went once and for all, and right now we are where we were and where we were supposed to be in early 2001. As I said, the bill should have been sent much earlier. I would point out that in this bill, two provisions speak about what is important, which should be the objective of this law, which is to provide guarantees and superguarantee to small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. This is Article 1 and Article 9. All that remains is the establishment of one agency, which will join a group of dozens of agencies, into a group of small numbers of agencies that have been constitutionally established and under the law. Groh of these agencies, dozens of them are unlawfully founded by the decisions of the Republic government, i.e. by irresponsible behaviour and work of the Government. So, we only have two members who talk about the essence, the purpose of passing this law, and everyone else is already, on a daily basis, seen in this House: the determination of the board of directors, the supervisory board, the director, which is the essence of almost every law that we adopt here. Normally, I won't comment on it, but I will remind you of the government's decisions and strategy, which, unfortunately, we believed in early 2001, too, needed in the state administration, or in the state administration, in that first year, to reduce the number of employees by 20 percent. Not that it hasn't reduced the number of employees over the past two and a half years, but it's been increased multiplely, and that's about the honesty of those who are proposing this law. Article 1 provides nicely, and we must support this, that in order to provide conditions to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs in Serbia, a guarantee fund will be established. However, this business will probably remain a dead letter on paper, as not only will the attention be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is also normal, and entrepreneurs will be very difficult to obtain guarantees under this law and under the terms and conditions of the fund's operations, which will subsequently be determined by the decision of the Trust Management Board. I'd hate it if there was a little transparency in this law. I deliberately mention the word transparency, because it's a very popular word, so through that word we try to hide everything we don't want to see. So it's very unserious in this law not to give at least the basic terms of how, to whom and under what conditions that money will return. So these basic conditions should be laid down by law, and then given the opportunity to, by means of a general act, the board of directors or someone else, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, determines the conditions of giving guarantees and superguarantee. However, such a law can be applied successfully, but such a law cannot be successfully applied by the Republic government. Not only this law, because as good as they are and all other laws, they do not produce or suspect that they will produce the fact that it is necessary, because there is no serious intention or will nor strategy of the authorities in this Republic; and we know where the decision is located, that these laws are implemented and that, in particular, they revive production, or economic activities in Serbia, which are a condition for all the next reforms or democratisation in society. We have learned from the presentation of Minister Vlahovic, which is not otherwise in the Bill's proposal, that guarantees will be provided up to 50%. This is a problem, as already pointed out, because how will an entrepreneur get these guarantees - I know, very difficult - and how will a small and medium-sized enterprise provide other 50% warranty? We are witnesses, and from this pay phone I have criticised the Law on the Prime Minister and the Cataster, I said that he will not live as quickly as you imagined and said, because the vast majority or almost all the property of large and small enterprises is not registered, so it is not possible to use, based on this property, guarantees and to raise loans. Also, we don't even have legally regulated conditions to guarantee, for example, it's valuable. So there's no serious intention and no strategic intention to start resuscitating production. Also, the fund envisaged for this purpose, and for the Guarantee Fund, it is the amount of 600 million dinars, as the minister said, I think it is a meaningless amount, and it cannot be achieved much apart from some media propaganda of work by both Parliament and government. It's a meaningless amount, and it can be a situation where that amount is not used, because I suppose there's a great danger like that of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund, where I'm setting an example of Leskovac, where some funds have been given but the conditions for lending have been very difficult and unfavourable for small and medium-sized enterprises, so the sum of these couples have not been used. Remember that this is a very prominent media release, with big words, the visit of the late Prime Minister Leskovac. The funds were withdrawn very quietly, without the media and without any statement. Because people could not, under these conditions, use these allegedly offered loans. So it literally comes down to this: I offer something or you offer something that the user cannot accept because it puts a noose around his neck if he accepts those terms. It is likely that these funds will also be sufficient for this guarantee fund, because otherwise they would not be allocated in such a small amount, and the conditions will probably be harsh; there may not be conditions, depending on any individual from the government, they may also be required to access the Democratic Party for credit, etc. I suppose these funds will be sufficient, and the media this will be exposed so much that, behold, the ruling majority of MPs and citizens, the Republic government thinks so much about an economy that hasn't been running for more than two and a half years; I remind you, all indicators from the first three months of last year, and the same from any period two and a half years ago, show a decline in production, an increase in unemployment and all economic and statistical criteria show that there is no economic recovery, but there is a further decline. There's a question of whether there's a bottom or whether there's an end to the collapse. I don't think under this ruling majority there's any end to decay. Failing can go all the way down to this power that has no basis for the people's desire in the elections. The basic thing and what we pointed to, that is, what you pointed to in the 2000 campaign, is that you will attract foreign capital. It's not there. There were only supposed donations that stopped and that would come toll in a year or two, and most of what was said to be donations were actually loans. There are no other important moves. No results! This law will be passed regardless of all criticism, because it had to be passed much earlier. However, it could have been more thorough and better to regulate this matter, but such a law is given into the hands of such a authority, so it will not be applied. God forbid I'm wrong and I'm wrong, if that's the case, I'll apologize to you first, but by looking at all the laws that have been passed so far, which are selectively applied, knowing the ways of conduct so far, knowing what the ruling majority wants, I doubt that this law will be successfully applied, and I doubt that in due course, adequate measures will be taken to revive the production process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29755	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29756	In order to provide guarantees for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the State, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will establish a Guarantee Fund whose primary task will be to issue guarantees, i.e. a super-guarantee on behalf of the provision of part of the credit granted by banks and other financial organisations in the Republic of Serbia to small and medium-sized enterprises, all because there is no interest in the provision of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. guarantees, given the small value they can place as collateral to these loans. And as once in a time of real communism or socialism, at a time when the dominant role in the state was achieved by one party, the Alliance of Communists, when the state cared about everything, when the citizens of the state were expecting both wages and pensions, and vacations, and apartments, etc., when they depended on the state in everything, and had fear of that state that provided all of this, we return to the same forms of behavior. The state will be guaranteed someone, not the bank. It is said that the situation in our banks and in our banking industry is such that it cannot provide certain funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that banks have no intention of investing in these companies, and banks are reportedly being led by profits - if banks have no interest in why the state would do so? What scares me the most is the ability to give guarantees selectively. We recently had, these days it's still going on, a strike and a roadblock organized by sugar beet manufacturers. Minister Djelic says the government has no obligation to them, but this year it will give a certain amount of sugar to settle the producer's debts. And what if tomorrow's road is blocked by tobacco producers, and again the government says there's no obligation, and then again under pressure?- I'm sorry. Is it not possible that in this case and in other cases only guarantees are obtained by those founded or run by some relatives or friends of government members or by members of political parties? In the end, why is there a Fund for Development, why are parallel organizations being created? I think there's too much communist spirit in the bill of law, as well as in many of the laws proposed by this government. You can't still get rid of the fact that many of you live at some time when the role of the state was dominant. Today it is moving on to something called private property, something where it is the task of the state and the law to create only ambience and conditions, to develop a business, and also small and medium-sized enterprises, not to influence, to share money, etc. It's not the government of Christmas-Bata to do that. I think it's about time that our experts, who in the meantime become prominent party members, get rid of these habits and pass laws that suit this country. What's wrong with one expert becoming a party member? Is it small reason to be a member of the Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29757	The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29758	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, is one of the system laws of the Guarantee Fund, but a minor order of importance. It comes at a time when we have a very difficult situation in the economy, poor conjuncture, in a country where economic downturns are evident, employment declines, industrial production declines. This law is good and the DSS will support it, but it is a question of what it can bring to us -- in a country where, as I said, there is a drop in economic activity, where we had, when we replaced the marks and other foreign exchanges in the euro, a four billion-euro exchange, certainly there is free capital, but that capital has not been invested. Foreign banks have come to our country. It is obvious that these banks, unfortunately, do not have much in terms of lending to the domestic economy. We need domestic investment as well as foreign investments and there is space, especially in the areas of small and medium-sized enterprises, to strengthen them. The question arises why is there no such domestic investment? Is this state, this government guarantee that these investments will be realistic, that they will be able to be flushed in the right way or not? The current situation with the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises is not pink. In early 2001, we had the entry of several banks, such as Micro Finance Bank, which announced that they would deal, first of all, with the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. They had some of their instruments of guarantees that were partially covered by the law, not in part. There were not too many effects on the lending, as data on the number of newly established actions per municipality could also be taken as an example of the City of Belgrade, show there were increases, but there was no significant increase in the number of, say, independent actions. We had some more of the European Bank's credit lines for reconstruction and development, which, as I recall, was placed through Eksim and Novosadska Banka. That's where the guarantees were mostly business plans. That's what they were talking about at first, there were a lot of commercials, and there's no record of what the effects were. The government and the ministry are telling us that the new million jobs target this sector and 400,000 entities. This is something taken as a goal when viewing the analysis of surrounding countries, countries of similar size and the structure of their economy. It's certainly something that would be good if we had in our country, it's just a question of what time it's going to happen. The way we're going, I'm sure it won't happen soon. The question is whether the Guarantee Fund itself will help. This law provides the legal structure of the Fund. Some things will be seen from the very Statute of the Fund. The most interesting thing is what criteria the Fund will have for giving these superguarantees to credit banks that they will approve of private entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. It's something that will depend most on the efficiency of this institute. Some changes have been announced in the area of private entrepreneurship. Surely there will be some kind of equalisation of the status of small and medium-sized enterprises, in general, companies as legal entities and private entrepreneurs as individuals. It is something which is a step towards some European norms, European rules. When we enter this process, we should be careful not to get more complicated work, first of all, for private entrepreneurs, in the sense of keeping books and things like that. In particular, something that has been announced is important, which is that the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has a role to play in registering both private entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. It means to get it out of the courts, or local self-government, where it's been so far. Surely it is not good if it is achieved in this regard, especially if the City of Belgrade is taken up as an example, where the registration of independent entrepreneurs is now carried out in the municipality; it is good because there is a tax administration department in the municipality and other authorities that need entrepreneurs, so they can do everything in one place. If this is centralised at Belgrade City level, it certainly won't be good. The example of taxi drivers doing their registration at City level is certainly the most about it. As far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, a amount of less than 10m euros is planned for the start. That amount is certainly not large and it is best seen if compared to, say, the founding capital needed to establish a company, which is $5,000. It best shows that the amount of 10m euros is absolutely small. I've already talked about banks, that there's one space for banks to reluctantly enter into the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially private entrepreneurs. Some foreign banks have put the bottom line of credits that approve of 100,000 euros, 200,000 marks in time. It certainly isn't something that private entrepreneurs might be interested in, especially at the beginning of their work. The DSS will support this law. Anyway, it's better than nothing. We hope that this Guarantee Fund will grow into a more serious institution in the coming years. It is necessary for him to start working, to establish his organs, to create statutes. It's a good thing he's established by law. We certainly support that. Further development of this institute, guarantees, guarantees to banks for loans to private entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, further development of this type of activity will certainly be conditioned by our macroeconomic situation, global investment in the economy of the state and one part and the efficiency of this fund itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29759	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do regret that Minister Vlahovic is not here, because it is a special pleasure to attack the law when the ministers are here. Of course, I also wanted to congratulate him on his election as a member of the Democratic Party's General Committee. It's for every politician, I suppose, the most important function, much more important than a state function. At least now we know he's not an expert, he's a politician. Since it is the Minister of Privatisation and the Minister of Industry, although we have seen him more often and recognized him as the Minister for Privatisation and Disposal of State Property, I assume that today he is meeting with some of these strikers, whether Kragujevacanka was "Serbian" from Valjev, and that he is a little concerned with the economy and if that is why he is not here right now, I justify it. As far as the guarantee fund law itself is concerned, the sooner it should be a law establishing a guarantee fund. No matter how good or bad this law is, it's not some special system law, as my predecessor said, but a law on establishing a guarantee fund; where his seat is, what kind of property he has, who are the organs of this fund and absolutely nothing more. Therefore, it is only the expectation of representatives of the ruling majority, i.e. the government, to get some impression in the public that this will help to develop small and medium-sized enterprises; and that small and medium-sized enterprises will survive such a difficult economic situation and fall in economic activity, it will not affect this law, but the entire economic miles and economic policy that is being conducted in this country. Since we know that domestic banks have been destroyed, that some foreign banks have come under duress credibility, these banks should now be guaranteed for some credit that will be granted, but as mortgage loans, to business entities representing small and medium-sized enterprises; therefore, it is not meant for large economic operators and I assume it also refers to founders of trade, crafts, catering activities. The funds that the state has set aside for that as a founding stake in this fund, as far as we've seen from law and reasoning, 600 million dinars. Six hundred million dinars about cover, as far as I could estimate, the value of the immovableity of the business space, the equipment, all that it takes to start doing this fund, and of that capital that should be guaranteed will remain very little. Systemically, we from the Serbian Radical Party think it's wrong for the state to interfere a lot in economic flows. If the reason is that, in these conditions of transition, the economic development of the Republic of Serbia should be based on the affirmation of a market economy based on private ownership, the liberalisation of internal economic flows, while creating a more stimulating environment for direct foreign investments, as well as the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, then we do not see what the purpose of this law is - because it will not stimulate foreign investments, and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises will be affected as much as these companies are able to guarantee their assets for the loans they take. It's a small number of those who will succeed; and some of the army of people who have lost their jobs, with the idea, with some project, start some work, counting on some credit from any bank and on the guarantee of this guarantee fund for getting credit, it's simply impossible, because it simply doesn't have the property, the 50% for which it has to guarantee, with which it could provide. Here's the question, why is the state even getting involved in this? Why would the state guarantee banks for their business risk? Have the bank find another bank that'll give a super-guarantee. It would be something that, in our opinion, is normal, especially if we want to develop a market environment, or market economy. Our minister here told us, in his exposé, that the strategy is to get from 270,000 companies to 400,000 companies, and since he's not here, I'm going to ask the question -- how many businesses were there in 2000? I think it was more than this number he set for himself or the government set itself a goal. I'm sure it's more than 400,000! The bank's assets, we all know, are quite limited; they are limited to loans, and that in itself makes it impossible to compete. Such a policy, which is guided by interest, further makes it difficult and makes it impossible for all interested economic operators to take loans, and, frankly, we doubt that this guarantee fund will and on the basis of which criteria it will decide which loan it will give the guarantee for, which it will not. Since credits will only be granted to those who have the opportunity to provide this guarantee, we think there's plenty of room for abuse, for selective law enforcement and selective guaranteeing. True, there is no item in the 600 million dinar budget guaranteeing this founding stake, so we don't know why these funds will be transferred to this fund and why this law has waited for months to enter the assembly debate, apparently waiting in some cetice pot. Just the explanation that the promoter gives us - that this guarantee fund should create more favourable conditions for the creation of new and development of existing small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs - is a list of good wishes. It will certainly not affect the development of new ones, and it will affect the development of some of the existing small ones who succeed on the basis of their connections and ties to reach the Guarantee Fund. One of the biggest problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, at this point, is the lack of financial resources and difficulties in their security, so we had this financial lease law with the same goal. Now, practically, this guarantee fund could be observed in a package with that law, because it should provide a guarantee for those who would take loans to buy equipment and give in financial leases and I think it would rather be a means for those who would be financial lenders than small and medium-sized enterprises for direct loans from our banks. Also, the promoter claims that banks are turned towards financing large enterprises and are not significantly interested in small and medium-sized enterprises because of the increased risk, since those who want credit cannot be guaranteed by mortgage or stock for part of the loan funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29761	Are you using the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29762	Yeah. We'll have, as far as we've heard, on the agenda, maybe already at the next session, and that stock bill; but, frankly, everything is undefined, financial resources, some moving things, valuables to which the stock applies, and we don't know where the projection comes from, what is the amount of these funds, how much of it can be derived as the possibility that some moving precious thing can be held in stock to get the financial resources for the loan on that basis. Someone has, probably, an assessment of how many of these there are and how many can be used. I don't think that can have a significant impact. Maybe in some countries it can, but in our terms it can't, surely, and the ducats have been spent a long time ago, I don't know what other valuables it would be, unless we start to say a little bit, and we're looking for pots, maybe they're somewhere, maybe they've left someone else's grandfathers. We are argued that in a situation where existing funds are not enough to invest more significantly in this sector, it is necessary to establish a special guarantee fund; I do not know which funds they mean, but the Development Fund still exists in the state and has funds. And how do they afford them and whom are they given? I guess that's not a good way for the market economy either, because even in such a situation when the state appears as a lender, it's completely contrary to the market conditions of business, and there's also the possibility that, by some criteria, which are not only marketable, they are assigned to this or that. Too much State interference in these things brings us back to that planning economy, which we're supposed to want to escape from. There's not much to be said about this law. We have submitted some amendments to improve the text of the law, and several amendments to essentially affect the law itself. We think that the law is too high and that it will not bring the results the government expects. And even if it were the most ideal law, we certainly wouldn't vote for the law proposed by the government that introduced media darkness into Serbia, which haunts its political opponents; arrests political opponents, takes away business space for political parties, competitors in a system where democracy passes into autocracy, where there is remandism! We can't support anything such a government suggests. As far as we can see, there's no need for us to attack you anymore, I mean the Serbian government. In the Serbian government, the ministers are now attacking each other enough and everything we need to know about the government, that is, everything we've been saying so far, will be confirmed by the government's own members on mutual charges. This is already telling us that the time for economic policy, state policy to start leading someone else and that emergency, or early republican elections should be discussed, so that all institutions in this country begin to function in a legitimate and legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29763	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Vladan Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29764	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the guarantee fund law is an extremely important law, although it is made up of only 25 members. But this law determines only the terms and conditions and methods of establishing a Guarantee Fund, given that the specific rules and normative acts of the Management Board, or the Assembly of this Fund, will be defined by the rules of providing guarantees, as well as the work of this Fund. The creation of the Guarantee Fund, as a financial institution, which is established and started working on the basis of the government's capital allocated from the budget, is justified in these troubled, difficult and uncertain times, as well as in conditions of subjugation which are becoming increasingly difficult and more uncertain from day to day. The Guarantee Fund should and could be a very significant factor in the participation of state policy and, above all, financially, through this fund in the development of existing and also in creating more favourable conditions for faster development and the creation of new small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. crafts actions. I would say immediately, since he is not Minister Vlahovic here, he breaks down as a minister, leading politics, helping and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises! It only makes it rhetorical, which is no longer "burning", and some paralytic measures, given that whenever a law is passed on to support or a strategy to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, there is always something missing. The initial question raised regarding the work of this fund is: what does this fund mean, and it also refers to credit support without clearly defined publishing rights, regulated by the Law on Advocacy of Movement Matters, which has also been registered in the register, which in this Parliament has been ticked somewhere since mid-October of last year; which is why in this government does not correspond to the adoption of a grant law, since donations are one of the essential sources of funding for the work of the Guarantee Fund in the coming period; why have you not imported these legal solutions into one continent, finally rounding the government's intentions in State support policy to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises? Support for small and medium-sized enterprises only comes down to a verbal, beautiful story. And if you cared about their creation and development, or positive participation in the mitigation of the fatal consequences of transition, you would not wait more than nine months for the law to be placed on the agenda. What is worse, you do this besides the Rules of Procedure, in violation of the provisions of Article 134, and the draft agenda prepares, you know who, President of the Assembly! The prize question is, when does the Fund start working? I repeat, when does the Fund start working? We will determine the prize if it is answered correctly (half credit and half from the Guarantee Fund). There you go, Mr. Mircic. You wrote in article 21 that the Fund begins with the work of the day of enrolment in the court register. "The Fund begins with the work of the day of enrolment in the court register." All those who give such an answer have sinned, because you have taught them wrongly, I am writing this decision. Why? What court register is registered in a state financial institution, and by what law? Such a register does not yet exist in the applicable legal provisions, so the Guarantee Fund can never begin work. This fund cannot be entered in the court register until it becomes a stock or stock company. It's a second key feature that speaks only of the verbal policy of support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Maybe the Fund forms and registers immediately as a stock company, and that is not the basic intensities of this law. The next unknown provision is the founding role, as Article 4 provides that funds for the establishment and start of the Fund's work are provided in the Republic's budget. In the budget for this year, such a position does not clearly exist, except that at 424 (at the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation) there is a fixed amount of 760 million plus 5,420,000 additional funds, which are intended for the work of the Privatisation Agency, for the work of the Investment Fund and for the establishment, or for the work of the Guarantee Fund. So, explicitly in the budget, there is no figure of 600 million, but a global figure that is set to support small and medium-sized enterprises. Is it natural that the height of the founding role, and it's not small, is 600 million dinars, determines only at the end of the argument? Even worse, in light of the non-acceptance of one of the amendments, I think the SRS, it says that the funds for the establishment of 600 million dinars will be paid into the account of the Fund in accordance with the Budget Law, it is understood. Which is a lot, it's a lot, because I think we bring laws here, not house rules! Perhaps you have not entered that into the provisions of the law, because as a sword above your head stands the famous Minister Boza Djelic - the budget has no money, and 600 million is not small money! For the abovementioned reasons, I consider this law to be merely a skillful political marketing, because the Guarantee Fund will never be revived under this law. Take these remarks very seriously, because it's already too late. Two and a half years have passed since Mr. Vlahovic was Minister and since this government, and reforms are slow, with significant stalemates, with the economy collapsing, with a significant drop in industrial production! In the first quarter of this year alone, production was lower than in the same period last year by 4.8%, with banned trends falling in March of 6.4%. Such a policy results in an increase in the number of unemployed, and 20% of employees in the economy do not receive profits. Profits are real and nominally dropping, as in January they are as low as 17.93% compared to the month of December and in March by 12.3%. The country's debt is increasing, and your slogan, or slogan of the privatisation minister, when I say privatisation I mean investment, is only a verbal winged woman, since there is no investment or even in the field of public works. I would like to invite Mr. Minister to come to Valjevo, which is a business-dead city, a city in a blockade; three companies have blocked the access highways since this morning, and the average earnings have fallen from the golden middle to the last place in Serbia. If you deal with supervision of the work of the Fund as a competent ministry, as well as with the economy, you better delete this undefined provision or determine the competent ministry, because there will be no "N" from the supervision, as there is no "P" from the economy. For us socialists is a very discriminatory member of the 9. My question is why the guarantee, or the superguarantee, cannot be issued for the entire loan, but only for the unscrupulous, or as the minister said, only 50%. Perhaps it is better that you have prescribed both provisions? It means that a guarantee can be provided for the entire amount or part of that amount and the Fund's policy to define the amount of the loan given will be covered by guarantees, i.e. counter-guarantees from the Guarantee Fund. I agree that all participants must take some kind of risk and follow the conditions of business. Is it more of a risk to give a guarantee of 50,000 euros the entire amount of credit with an intubulation on a registered business facility or a residential facility or to give a guarantee to half of 100,000 euros of credit without intubulation on property, or without value?- I'm sorry. Finally, the amount of 600,000 dinars to be provided in the budget is not final. If donations or other sources provide 50,000 euros or from other sources, the government must provide an additional 40,000,000 euros to be recapitalised if it moves towards transformation. I think these suggestions are really well-intentioned, and I would suggest that these two provisions be reconsidered, and that this issue clears up, because of the good intentions of development and incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises there will be nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29765	The word has been made by MP Vladan Jovicic, a member of the DSS, and the next one has been reported as a national MP for Natas Jovanovic, the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29766	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, the essence of the proposal for the establishment of the Agency's fund and its purpose calls for us to support and adopt such an initiative. Of course, there were attempts at local and district level in 2001 to encourage the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises through credit. In view of the fact that the economy is unable to help fill the funds needed for this fund, because the image of the economy as it is today is not very pink, especially if it is known that around 27.8 billion dinars are being taxed for sales, customs duties and other taxes, and for personal incomes of around 28.5 billion dinars, it is clear that the amount in the investment in the digression is. Simply, a single dollar for investment follows 4.5 dinars of credit. These are the consequences of what this government inherited, and the consequences of what is called donations will also come. It's time to return the first tranche of credit. It is hard to believe that in such an environment, the economy will "resuscitate" and make up for the 16.35 dinars needed for public spending, as well as 16.76 dinars for salaries currently employed in Serbia, invested in investment. The intention is that what we learn in the world, such as Krup Corporation, which gathers around it in a direct interactive relationship of 70-80 small and medium-sized enterprises to produce different parts for the final product "Krup", a buffer for surface exploitation. It is possible, therefore, that through the privatisation of businesses and the upcoming restructuring of Serbia's economy, the parent home of the type "Krup", which will be "congregated", i.e. the work of which will include new - old small and medium-sized enterprises. It is hard to believe that, it is said, the Fund will be filled by private banks that will place the money mass they own through it, for the reason that, as so far, the economy in Serbia is operating with short-term loans, and we know that this has led to "equipped" banks across Serbia. Therefore, banks are not wrong business companies are not able to accumulate money and to raise loans in the return relationship. In particular, taking into account that the inherited way of compensatory business is becoming less and less influencing, this and the compensatory settlement of debts is reduced to a minimum. Despite this economic environment, however, these solutions should be supported to form a Guarantee Fund because the future and exit from the crisis of economic operators in Serbia is right through small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29767	There is a word from Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic, and the next reported is MP Golub Rajic, a parliamentary group of SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party, as you have heard from counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic and MPs, cannot support this bill because of the overall situation that exists in our economy and because we believe that in a completely different way and much earlier should be talked about the guarantee fund. I followed the look on Mrs. Comic's face -- it was not Gordana Pop-Lazic's fault when she said that we believe the law should be called "the draft law establishing a guarantee fund" rather than the guarantee fund bill. Someone's gonna say it's not a neck, it's a neck, but in fact it's the essence of everything I want to say. First of all, in order for a country, as you like to say - in a country of transition, to establish a guarantee fund for the purpose, which, but only declaratively, was spoken of by Aleksandar Vlahovic, is needed much earlier to create stable political and economic conditions, in order to talk about what is the second stage of economic development. In fact, it's an avant-garde phase for transition countries, which are: small and medium-sized enterprises. This has been said a great deal during the former rulers in this country in the early 1990s, during unrecorded economic sanctions, which seemed America and Western countries towards our country. However, all this remains only on the words and manner, a declarative push for such strategic development of small and medium-sized enterprises, Aleksandar Vlahovic continued. I will remind you of the adopted version of the law: a while ago, we had only amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, when Minister Vlahovic spoke of restructuring of large business systems, the flag case; they were giving workers 200 marks at that time, now 100 euros for each year's internship on average 4,500 to 5,000 German marks, so that those with this initial capital, imagine irony in a country where poverty and poverty took so much that a million and a half people were hungry, went to negotiate, group and establish small enterprises, or to organise themselves so that they had some initial capital for a small or medium-sized enterprise. Since we were "not late" five months or since August of last year, when we received this proposal of the guarantee fund law, the question arises what was done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why did the minister make such false promises to workers and why did he talk about something that was practically impossible to achieve in these economic and economic conditions?- I'm sorry. The law specifies the relationship between beneficiaries of the Guarantee Fund, i.e. owners of business entities, small and medium-sized enterprises and, on the other hand, business banks. How are you going to convince the MPs, or the minister and the gentleman who probably represents him, the morning list of some brochures, that the business banks in our country or foreign banks operating as domestic banks in our country, there are those who know how many with different names, that in this way they will find themselves in a position to help small and medium-sized enterprises, when they too are on high alert because of this government-led policy and because they do not even know what kind of relationship the future National Bank of Serbia will have, since there is now the biggest gap in DOS. She is now only informally doing business it is the main stumbling block of these days to adopt the law. As it is possible to speak in advance about the generosity of these business banks, when their reserve is mandatory, the bankers themselves say and even complain about those who are your favorites and the biggest banking lobbyists in this country, as has been shown after the adoption of the Law on Payments, when it is absolutely impossible for them to count on some long track, because they do not know what future monetary and banking policy in such a political and economically unstable country will be. Thus, they too cannot be broad-minded to owners of small and medium-sized enterprises in advance. For us, SRS MPs, it is very important that the minister, whenever he appears and who was first to be here from the beginning to the end, because this law treats the other side of the medal, his infamous medals, that he and the Minister of Economy, and not only for privatisation, and, behold, he is not there, to explain to us where these 600 million initial roles in the Guarantee Fund from the Republic of Serbia's budget are, when we are in a complete economic collapse and barely insinuating wages and pensions, when Minister Djelic fell into some klic, a vacuum, he does not know on which side, he will have to schedule when any of the state authorities and institutions will receive the salary. Where did this 600 million come from? If you already want to help the economy, but I highly doubt it, because every day is more expensive for businessmen in this country, under this authority, you, gentlemen, ask that the Radio - Television of Serbia pay you back those 600 million, which it has taken from the beginning of the year to today and those 2,700,000 since last year, after suspending the direct transfers of the session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29769	There is a word from MP Golub Rajic, the SPS parliamentary group. The next reported is MP Ljubomir Kragovic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29770	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the proposal for a law on the Guarantee Fund, which, in the conditions of transition and restructuring of the economy and society as a whole, is based on the affirmation of a market economy based on private ownership, the liberalisation of internal economic flows, while creating a more stimulating environment for direct foreign investment, as well as the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises. One of the basic reform objectives is to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, with the necessary additional financial and non-financial support measures, particularly in view of the positive effects of general economic development and job creation. This is said in the reasons for the law being passed, and that's okay, that's how it's supposed to be. However, the situation is not exactly that and has a trend of deterioration. We have already passed the Privatisation Act, the Law on Support for Small and Medium Enterprises and others, and no problem in the state and society is solved. The economy is not working, poverty, uncertainty and unemployment are today the biggest problems, social separation is dramatically sharpened. The reform model is inevitably leading to a growing financial and any other subordination and dependence of the economy and the country on favoured foreign corporations and financial institutions, with all the consequences of debt submission. The sale of domestic enterprises, as well as the overall economic policy of the government, has inconceivable consequences seen in the army of unemployed, declines and such low production, social decomposition, growth of poverty and general poverty! It is true that today the biggest problems of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia, especially those just established, lack of financial resources and difficulties in providing them, as banks are not very interested in placing funds with such high interest. For all of this, financial support must be provided through favourable loans, which will not be selective and discriminatory, available to a small number of benevolent people, but will be available to all who have an appropriate programme for their own business. The adoption of the Guarantee Fund law and the creation of the Fund is only one of the conditions for the accelerated development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. They should be provided with adequate incentives through relief in the tax system for employers, in order to increase employment, and also create a favourable economic environment for the development of entrepreneurship. The Socialists believe that without investments, there are no conditions for a faster and more successful solution to unemployment, development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, as well as businesses. And I wish this "national fund" was a guarantee for solving financial problems and taking over some of the risks of banks and other financial organisations. The government put a lot of trust in donations, expected a lot of them, and had false hopes that we could live out of them without starting our own production. It's absurd. Today, when they dry out, when they're getting smaller, how are we going to start a very difficult economy, when domestic businesses are not able to finance themselves, when the state is already in charge of about $12 billion, when the social product is half down, and more than half of the social product goes to general consumption?- I'm sorry. The proposal for a guarantee fund law is a ray of hope to launch economic activities to increase economic growth, leading to an improvement in citizens' living standards as well as an end to foreign borrowing. Much was expected of the Privatisation Act! However, he did not give the right results. The deadline's up by a year and a half, so it's going too slow again. Privatisation of public enterprises is not even started. The climate has not yet been created to create small and medium-sized enterprises, and worst of all, there are no investors, probably because of the state. The Guarantee Fund Act regulates that the Fund has the property of a legal person; the funds are provided from the budget to begin with, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, and for the work of the Fund's revenue, donations and other sources, in accordance with the law, which is fine, as well as that the Fund's funds can be used in accordance with the law, statute and programme of the Fund. However, we believe that the Fund can place free resources in line with business policy, but only in the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. There should not be room for any abuse or placement of funds in business banks, large enterprises, budgets and the like, if we are already setting up a fund to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia, and this is regulated in Article 6 of the law. Article 9. - there is no need to limit guarantees to part because practice will show that it is better to guarantee the total amounts of loans that banks and other financial organisations approve of small and medium-sized enterprises. This does not exclude the possibility of the Fund only partially guaranteeing individual loans, and should take into account all difficulties in providing mortgages and other types of guarantees required by the commercial banks. Taking into account the importance of developing small and medium-sized enterprises and taking measures by the state to ensure the full development of these enterprises, which is why this fund is set up, it is good that the government has accepted the amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia that the government is obliged to submit an annual report on the operation of the Fund to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, in Article 22. The draft law should be more precise and clearer in regulating the operations of the Fund already organised as a stock company; Article 23 requires a clearer definition of the government's obligations to appoint the Director of the Fund and the composition of the Management and Supervisory Board of the Fund. And finally, to say that I am not sure that the adoption of this law will contribute to the growth and development of the economic sector, as well as to the increase of the social product, to the reduction of unemployment, and to the faster technological and evener regional development, to the substitution of imports, and especially to the greater export competitiveness of our established economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29771	Thank you. The word is from MP Ljubomir Kragovic, a Serbian Radical Party MP. The next reported one is MP Joca Arsic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29772	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the Guarantee Fund is the idea of the Serbian government to realise, above all, four elements that are important for the development of the economy: the market economy, the economic environment, investment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. All this as an idea of good is just the inability of the Serbian government to die so that we don't have a market economy, because in the economy there is chaos, the government monopoly, government regulations, we don't have an economic environment in which business activities would develop, investments go late, both domestic and foreign, given that interest rates are very high so that private and private entrepreneurs don't have the ability to borrow and invest in investment. It has been tried to resolve the development of small and medium-sized enterprises through the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency when the Law was passed here in Parliament. At that time, it was said that it was one of the dizzinesss of developing small and medium-sized enterprises, that a network will be formed across regions, but until today we have no information at all whether this Agency is working or what it is doing in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises at all. This bill can be viewed on several sides and I think, if what the bill says is true, that Minister Vlahovic himself slowed the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Why do I say that? I say for the simple reason that 600 million dinars for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises are not placed. The proposal was submitted on 8 August 2002 and due to the government's negligence and incompetence of 600 million dinars, it is not based on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The bill is only in the process these days and will probably be adopted by the end of the month. It has been five months and six hundred million dinars probably standing somewhere frozen, if it is even true that these funds are secured, according to Minister Vlahovic, then he is perfectly normal and damaged those funds for these five months during which they could be placed for the opening of new or development of existing small and medium-sized enterprises. It is said that we currently have about 270,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and that the aim is to create conditions through this Guarantee Fund law for the formation of up to 400,000 such enterprises, and through these formations and employment of millions of workers. It's just a list of beautiful desires that normally won't come back to life. This law will experience the fate of a law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. As far as the law itself is concerned, through members - Article 5 says: "The funds for the work of the fund are provided from: 1) the Fund's income"; as if the Fund had some business. Probably later, through development and when it's organized as a stock company, it'll behave like a single bank. Then, point 2) "donations"; that will be less and less, and "other sources according to the law", which is totally unclear to me. I can't figure out what other sources are in accordance with the law, which can be in this fund. Article 9 reads: "The Fund's activity is to issue guarantees, i.e. superguarantee". With this law delayed for almost a year, we have done very little and we have made it slow to develop small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. This law seeks to prevent the grey economy, to make those elements of the grey economy as much as possible into real flows. However, with a constant decline in production, an increase in the unemployment rate, a fall in social standards, all of these elements suggest that there will be a further strengthening of the grey economy, not the suppression of the grey economy. The question is how to provide funds for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the elements is privatisation. If there are three sugars provided 10 euros, there are probably another seven, eight zeros, and I don't know how many millions of sugars to provide. All in all, this is a very bad bill that will not significantly affect the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29773	The word is from MP Joca Arsic, the SPS parliamentary group. The next reported MP was Veroljub Arsic, the SRS parliamentary group. No more sign-ins for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29774	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have yet to come up with another draft of the law offered by the Government. However, it has already been commented here that this law came to the assembly procedure in August 2002 and that it was on the agenda after nine months. Today, in principle, and probably after that and in particular the amendments, we should consider this law and, normally, if you provide the majority of the assembly, and vote it in the voting day. What would be my principled objection to this law is that only Article 9, of the 25 members of the proposed law, is the regulated activity of this guarantee fund. Only in this article is the essence of this law and what the Fund should be doing. Everything else is within the scope of the Governing Board, the Supervisory Board; the needs of the Statute, what should the Supervisory Board do, what should the Fund's Management Board do, how the Fund's Management Board, who appoints it, will the Guarantee Fund function as a government body by agency principle or will be a company in some future, where at least 51% of actions by the State in this Guarantee Fund are provided? The basic question is, if the Fund's capital derived from the government's budget is six hundred million dinars and can be guaranteed or superguaranteed with it, I don't know what other revenues it will have, on which basis, if there are no other assets, by having to secure from this amount and service, by paying the board of directors, by paying the accommodations, etc., because at first there will certainly be no income, and other revenues are said to be. This is not how these other revenues will be collected, is it going to be a percentage of the guarantees, or is it going to be a commission to give these guarantees? After all, if one who has a need and the Government of the Republic of Serbia programme since 18 February 2003 provides that, in addition to 270,000 small and medium-sized enterprises as they were in 2002, in some perspective period from five years to 2007, there should be 400,000 of them, so if half of them showed up at the Guarantee Fund to guarantee them certain loans, loans or development needs, you can see for yourself how many would be. If we share this amount with which this guarantee fund can currently be guaranteed, it would be about 1,500 dinars per company. Article 9 speaks of a guarantee being given on a part of the loan. I think this raises one question that's already mentioned here, which is the policy issue involved in this fund, that whoever has political influence will be able to get a guarantee or a superguarantee from this fund, and I don't know who else will be able to win, based on what? If someone shows up with no capital, as an enterprise, with a purse and a bow and asks to be guaranteed a guarantee to a bank by a Guarantee Fund based on a programme that makes or builds a valid institution, which he will guarantee, in case he doesn't return the Bank, that the Fund will be compensated? Nothing! If he has capital and has something to guarantee, a mortgage or what we've adopted here -- a financial lease law, to guarantee, then he's going to secure himself at the bank with his own capital, with his own assets, whether it's mobile or immobilized. When I mentioned the immovable property, I think we could discuss this together with the law on pawnage rights over movables. I think he's necessary for something like this. We're running, mixing, we're making an hour out of each other, and there's not one whole activity about these things that we really need. It's been said a lot of times here that the economy doesn't work the way it's supposed to work. Even in this programme, we are halfway through the 1989 period, according to some indicators. I don't think that's the right thing to do, that's much worse. So we really need the resources. I think it would be more comprehensive, more comprehensive, and better to create a particular organisation that will be able to raise enough resources to encourage and assist the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and not in this way, that only one member and in a very difficult way say that guarantees and superguarantee will be partially provided. It came to him in that folk's room, to apologize, "guarantee a godfather". (Milka Marinkovic, from place: Reverse. Comrade Milka, I apologize. That's the whole concept of the law. One more thing, in the powers given later, if this guarantee fund is converted into a stock company, the board of directors elects the Fund Assembly, the assembly decision ensures that the value of that part of the capital provided by the state cannot be less than 51%. So the state has most votes in the assembly. A terrible parallelism is being created — the director of selecting the congregation, the board of directors elects the congregation. Then you have two parallel organs. If the Director is elected by the Assembly of the Fund and the Management Board chooses the Assembly of the Fund, they shall be equal. The powers of directors are exactly the same with the powers of the Management Board, as both draws the right and power from the Assembly. I think these are some things that should be regulated in some way. He may be elected by the Assembly, but on a proposal from the Management Board. It is then the Governing Board that decides on the proposal, calls for a competition and proposes a selection of directors to be bound, in a way, by the Director to the Management Board. There are, of course, a number of objections that can be made at the expense of this. The MPs of our parliamentary group have submitted several amendments. It has already been said that one amendment has been adopted. It was not worse to adopt and others, because they went towards having what we were talking about improved and in some way led to a slightly more coherent and better solution - besides what I said, I think with such a solution, with such little resources and little capital, practically insignificant establishment of this fund, according to the necessary means to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, without talking about the fate of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29775	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, and it is the last to be reported for this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29776	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think the proposer did not have the right parameters in the area of economy in Serbia in the projection of this law and the reason for the introduction of this law. Mr. Minister said there are currently around 270,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs in Serbia, and I can say that this information is nowhere near accurate. It's got to be a smaller number, I can say even a double, and that number's been shrinking since you came to power. It is that it has been registered so much and it is a big problem for owners to check out their businesses or their own crafts activities, because one of the conditions for such a thing is to meet all tax and other obligations towards the state, which is why today they simply come into a situation to get down and do not carry out their work. The illusion is that one of these laws will have a positive effect, with as much as 400,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs opening up. Moreover, it will not improve the situation in those small and medium-sized enterprises that are already operating. In fact, it is not difficult to provide credit in the money market today, regardless of the structure of the company or entrepreneurs, regardless of the activity it deals with, because there is too much money on the market! The problem why companies do not take loans is in high borrowing costs, high interest rates and reduced business size. This last, most significant reason is because of the tax policy led by this government, then, uncontrollable imports of goods of broad consumption and another consequence, the reason is a large number of workers who lost their jobs, so that traffic is being slowed down and in a reduced volume at all. The Guarantee Fund itself will not facilitate the acquisition of funds - banks can take the view that small and medium-sized enterprises must have a guarantee, which will force the employer to request such a guarantee from the Guarantee Fund, and he will again use his policy to manage to issue such a guarantee, but will normally charge the commission and these are the revenues, these original revenues, that guarantee fund, which are provided for in this law. The very bottom line and the biggest problem is that when the government projected this law, it did not manage to launch production, regardless of what structure, small, medium or large enterprises, because only production is what can help this country. But you, the entire capital of this people, and what you get from donations, you direct, I can say, into too many wasteful budgets or in entirely wrong flows, means imports of goods from other countries. One serious state can't possibly count on it to have a future like this. I'm surprised that one of these laws didn't support the Ministry of Agriculture, and even if farmers were covered by such a bill, it's evident that agriculture is constantly missing money to increase its yield. Don't kid yourself, so we're essentially not industrial, we're agricultural land. Now we don't have primary agricultural production, we don't have secondary agricultural production, we don't have agricultural industries! It's the only thing we've been able to place since Serbia. All this is dying! And just to remind you, when was this famous customs war between Serbia and Austria that Serbia was then preserved by a pig, and now what you're doing makes no sense! A bill like this can succeed, but only in case imports of goods of broad consumption are controlled, the tax rate is reduced, the cost side of the budget is reduced, which is too wasteful.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29777	Since there are no more entries for the word, I ask if the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been issued by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS-Reform Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29778	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if the relationship between the structure of the Serbian economy's capital and the relationship between the total business profit that appears in the Serbian economy and the size and structure of the company, we will see that about 30% of the capital of the Serbian economy is contained in this type of enterprise, and that around 70% of the business gains are precisely the product of the business of these companies. So, the government's definition in this sense is very clear to us -- that it is precisely the development of small and medium-sized enterprises that is supposed to lead to the development of the economy, the increase of the social product and the quality of employment programmes for a large number of workers; means, employment of the workforce, as well as the coordination of the Serbian economy, the Serbian economy with the economy and the structure of the economy in the environment and in Europe at all. Without the means of security for loans, which are directed by business banks towards businesses, and at high fees, at high interest rates, with the fact that commercial banks cannot provide their loans and, in this respect, do not single out or refer to users, without grace periods, it is difficult to expect that, on the basis of a small investment, there is a successful development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. What is the chronic pain of security funds in us is the fact that through history we have had two systems for a long time: recording immovableity, therefore, the deed system on the one hand and the land book system on the other hand, where the deed absolutely does not have the principle of publicity, and in that sense there is no possibility that the deed is a good tool and a good basis for securing demand. The Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro did not address this issue in the best way, so before the administrative procedure is in place and before this is a system that is inconsistencies and worse than the system that we had in that part of the country that has a well-developed multi-annual system of land books. So we've come into a situation where mortgages can't be the best means of security of claims, and it's very often impossible to be a means of securing claims where there aren't registered immovableities, and that's very often the case, or where absolutely there wasn't a system of land books, but there were exclusively deedes. It is true that it would be condescending if the law on stock in moving things were found together with a debate on the Guarantee Fund. That would be natural. It is also true that it will be found very quickly, if not within the next week, then within the next two to three weeks, on the Serbian Parliament's agenda and that we will then have a more consistent system - the possibility of giving certain movable items as a means of security, certain valuables to banks in exchange for the security of those loans and funds given to legal persons, so that they can operate in a cost-effective manner. The question has been raised: why the state? It is because we do not have the basis to secure the claim either in immovable, or in mobile things that would provide an adequate response to Serbia's economic development needs. It is the state that must appear as a constant and firm guarantee, while these systems are not formed as a guarantee that loans will be returned, as a guarantee that small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to develop their production with little resources and thus affect the increase of social income, as well as the increase and improvement of Serbia's economy in general. In this sense, the definition of the law, even if this national guarantee fund is restructured into a stock company, that even then dominantly, means 51%, most of the capital is owned by the state; the state as a strong mechanism, but not by an instrumentised or conducting economy, but by a guarantee mechanism that this economy will be successful and retain the right to intervene in this area and help these businesses. Claims that it is only 600 million and that this is a small amount - it is true that it is not a large amount, but it is also true that the law opens up the possibility and allows the Fund's Management Board, through the adoption of the rules of business, to enable and define that the amounts given as a means of guarantee or superguarantee are regressed and that business policy and economic justification for the granting of the Guarantee Fund in favour of certain small or medium-sized enterprises are defined through the rules of business. Therefore, these rules of business, as internal acts, the Guarantee Fund will regulate and ensure that the operations of the Guarantee Fund are safe. So it's not just some kind of social giving or just some kind of state interventionism, it's a business-based move that the Fund takes at a certain point. The fact that some opposition parties have also announced that they will vote for this law - and this model is nothing new and is based on the experiences of countries that were in a similar position that we are now in - suggests that this legal project should be supported. That is why the DOS parliamentary club – Serbia's Reform – will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29779	The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. That's the second announcement on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29780	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of this debate, allow me to make a few more views of the SPS, first of all with the tendency to convince the legislator of this law that if not this year, and that bar in 2004, it has significantly higher funds in the republican budget for these purposes. It is already said, the goal set in the "Strategy of Small and Medium Enterprises Development" is to reach 400,000 with 270,000 of such enterprises and to employ about a million new workers in these companies, all in the period until 2005, so for the remaining two and a half years. Since only 600 million dinars have been allocated for these purposes, I'm afraid the whole story of encouraging the development of small and medium-sized enterprises does not come down to that people's -- "the whole of Tuzla one goat mazla, and yet boasts that the cheese is feeding." It's not just about how we're going to put a certain thing to the end of a hard-core insistence, but it's about to take a few relevant data into account. This is not a guarantee fund that should encourage business development only for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for entrepreneurs in Article 1. If these figures of the planned 400,000 small and medium-sized enterprises are added several hundred thousand more entrepreneurs and are made available to them by a Guarantee Fund that is not nominally 10m euros at this time, then the question of what are the average amounts that can theoretically be guaranteed to these economic operators and entrepreneurs. It is evident that, even with the same funds from business banks, this does not exceed 20 euros per legal person, or entity that would appear with a request to guarantee him a credit line. So with this information, I'm slightly vulgarizing this story about how small the amount for this purpose is determined. It is clear to anyone who in any way and in any form deals with economic activity that there is no more serious business, without launching a credit line of at least ten thousand euros per business entity, when it comes to investments and another ten thousand euros, when it comes to trade funds. For both of us, to provide adequate guarantees, you have Tantalus's troubles. If it insists that only partial guarantees, i.e. up to 50%, can be made by this guarantee fund, it can be seen where the torments are from businessmen who have to provide these funds to survive. There are 20 million companies in the European Union: of which 99% are small or medium-sized enterprises. It employs 80 million people, yet over 93% of these companies employ under 10 workers. Here in reason we have several data that speak of the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, but in view of the situation that companies in the European Union create about two-thirds of the social gross product, we are only at the beginning of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore the dry need to define a larger amount of funds for this purpose, on any basis. Whether based on budget funds, whether based on foreign credit orientation and donations to the Guarantee Fund, whether based on some other types of international aid. Anyway, there's no dilemma, I think, that those funds are minimal. If you take the projections of the necessary funds for the development of the Republic of Serbia in the period 2003-2005, make a statement by the government, this one, says it is necessary in that time to provide about six billion dollars based on donations, based on foreign direct investments, and, particularly, on credit. When you look at the structure where these funds are intended to be used, you will see that out of these under-full six billion dollars, only $228 million is meant for this story, for small and medium-sized enterprises, that is, to support the development of private entrepreneurship. Under that $228m item, you have a promotion of foreign direct investment, you have small and medium-sized enterprises and you have support in the work of agencies. The question is, out of six billion dollars, you have a total of 4% of the funds for small and medium-sized enterprises in any form, and you have a pretentious desire to achieve that we, like the European Union, have such a structure of enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, above all, that achieve about two-thirds of the social gross product. I think the goal is too great to achieve this kind of means. Take a few more parallels: 1989. Serbia had 48% of their social product compared to Slovenia. Today, Serbia has only 13% of the social product compared to the Republic of Slovenia. So, both we had in 1989 and what is realistic to assume that we would have had all this, if it hadn't been for sanctions and war and NATO bombings, we reduced to one quarter, so in 2001 Serbia had national income, per capital per capita of about $1,300, and in the same year Slovenia had $9,100 per capita. When Hungary went into transition, it had $4,600 per capita, Poland $4,100, and the Czech Republic and Estonia had over 5,000. We are going into transition with $1,300 per capita, and in all projections for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which make two-thirds of that national income, we only allocate $228 million and we want to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises with 600 million dinars or 10m euros to achieve that goal. It's just not possible. If there are 10m euros in the Guarantee Fund and 10m euros in business banks, it is a total of 20m euros. It is said in Article 5 that the Fund will generate some revenue, revenues from donations, revenues from carrying out its work and so on. These revenues from carrying out the work will essentially cost small and medium-sized enterprises, as issuing a guarantee costs. If funds are placed from that Fund, there will be interest-based income, and it can be stimulating, but it's bigger funds. If you have 600 million dinars and you guarantee 550 million of them, and 50 million are free, then you can place those funds in the economy, in some other interest-based activities, and make the right income. It is also controversial for me, because it is said that these funds will be freely placed, and we have suggested, as the SPS and our parliamentary group, that this potential surplus of funds, free, be placed exclusively in small and medium-sized enterprises, and not, for example, in large enterprises, not in other institutions, or in the budget. So that's what I wanted to talk about and appeal to this parliamentary majority, to force the government or the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, unfortunately, is right all those who say it's the Ministry of Privatisation, that it's not the Ministry of Economy, because this is the first law we have, and that it regulates some particular thing in the areas of small and medium-sized enterprises, that is, businesses as such. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that we have more than 600,000 people in restructures who are objectively going to lose their jobs by the end of the year and in the following year, someone has to take care of them. If we worry about them on the basis of a social programme in the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget, then it is counterproductive of what could be achieved by focusing that part of the funds on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and accepting this surplus of workers from large enterprises. That's the sad truth -- there's no big ones without little ones, but the other way around.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29781	Is there anyone else applying for a word from the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups? There's no sign-ins. ) We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal FOR THE GARANCE FOND (single details) The MP Zoran Krasic has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29782	In the principle debate, we tried to point to the political and economic aspects of one such bill and one such concept of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship and, in particular, the impact of the state on their development. We are trying to get the amendments to the legal framework, as far as possible, of this law, simply to look like a founding act, because essentially this law is the law establishing the guarantee fund of the Republic of Serbia. From all the provisions of this law, it simply insists that it regulates the establishment, organisation, there are very few provisions on how it works, and on the conditions under which it carries out its business, i.e. issuing guarantees and superguarantees, there are almost no provisions, and there is a practical fundamental lack of this bill that it cannot actually be a law. Why? Because it's not a complete founding act for a para-state body like this fund. Secondly, it does not regulate the conditions and the way in which these tasks are carried out by this law. To remove this, we have submitted several amendments: by amendment to Article 1, we are practically defining what is the subject of this law (not to read the amendment, you have had the opportunity to read the amendment). So one way is to say what is wanted by this law - to establish a guarantee fund of the Republic of Serbia, to regulate the conditions and the way of business and other important issues for the operation of such a fund. I'd have to rely on one previous discussion, one MP who's well noticed that these fundamental shortcomings of this bill will practically not allow a registry court to register this fund, and why? This bill as a founding act is below the level and quality of any contract or decision on the establishment of any legal person, why? Because there's no provision on the level of founding capital, and that's the first and the most basic thing. The other thing, in this law, there is no provision defining or acknowledging what actions this fund should do, for any company, for any legal person. You, already in the fourth or fifth member of the founding act, must specify the operational code. This law doesn't even have a code of action to deal with this fund. The work of this fund is misnamed by the promoter - the work of the fund, which is business. You do not follow Article 4 and Article 6. You are contradictory from Articles 4 to 6. - in one member, talk about the business of the fund, and in the second about the work, in the third member you are talking about the work of the body, not the authorities' competences, and finally, what constitutes an insurmountable error of formal law, when it comes to this bill, is certainly a Article 9 which states that this fund is part of the capital, or part of a loan that a business bank directs to a small and medium-sized enterprise or entrepreneur, provides by issuing a guarantee or a super-guarantee to a bank, not an entrepreneur, which costs, and some commission must be paid for it. The cost of that bank, which provides its own risk placement, will go to the end-user of the loan. It's the same as taxing final consumption, exactly the same, and it turns out that this was brought in for EPP, and this can't live, because the conditions for enrolment in the court register are not met. The basic conditions for enrolment in the court register are not met. We've been trying to fix it with amendments, this one and the next. And I have to specifically point out to you that particular business control of this fund, where you said it was done by some ministry -- and where is the National Bank of Serbia? Because, apparently, this fund is a financial organization! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29783	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29784	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in addition to these reasons presented by fellow Krasic in favour of this amendment, which is not only formal but essential in nature, for the reasons he spoke about enrolment in the register of this fund and indeterminateness in the matter of activity, the lack of a code of action, the amendment was given in order to teach you how it is done and what is missing here. Conceptionally, the SRS believes that this law is a complete failure in the sense that the lending policy must not go that way - whether we are lending now or guaranteeing loans to large economic operators or small and medium-sized enterprises, we already need to define ourselves for programmes. So we have to enable all those who have certain programs to ask for loans and to make it the only rapper for the banks to lend credit. For example, if IMT wants to produce 1,000 ploughs, of course, it's a way of lending in the agricultural sphere, so that these ploughs to farmers, and they're obliged to give goods back to the creditor. Then there's the end of the credit cycle, and there's nothing in the state that interferes, except that it determines what taxes are, as much as anyone should pay. There's no interest here. If it's just business activity or we want to produce any product, table or chair, it doesn't matter, we got a loan for that program, the bank follows us every two or three months, see if we produced it or didn't. She's only interested in that. Plating security is a matter of whoever produced it. If he hasn't secured a placement for those three months, he's reprocessing it, breaking and processing it. It's so everywhere in the world. I don't know why we make up a pothole when it's already made up. We're constantly mixing the state into something to show how capable the state is, apparently, to support this or that. The state is no longer capable of supporting anything, it needs to leave everything to the market and it needs the risk to those who benefit from that risk. Only banks have the possibility of getting that interest on loans they give through loans. These interest rates are huge, virtually unbearable for our terms and for those who would eventually take credit. But that market would already make banks drop those interest rates, if there were not those who could handle taking such loans. Therefore, the government should identify whether it will be a planned or market economy! If he wants a market economy, as he says, then these laws really mean nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29785	No more reported for the word on this amendment. The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 2nd Amendment. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29786	Ladies and gentlemen, the work in this "parliament" is losing its meaning. MPs, who vote for government proposals, are completely uninterested in working on these proposals, and even worse than that, there are no government representatives here, which is already common. On Thursday, while he was still an expert, he was here, listening to us, and today, when he is a member of the Democratic Party and its main committee, there is no longer any interest in state affairs. He's probably already become a party activist on the ground. Here he gave us a bill on the Guarantee Fund, which represents a set of good wishes, of course unfulfilled. If this law is applied and applied, the state will assume a function it cannot possibly have, a function of bankers. In these conditions, it can't possibly do that. Or, worse still, he'll play the green man. My colleagues have already said that we don't think this law should be passed. As for not only my amendment, but all amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, I assume you've noticed that they're mostly legal-technical in nature. We have no desire, no need to direct the majority in this congregation, to have a fundamental impact on their proposals, or on the laws they adopt. But we in the SRS love Serbia very much, and therefore we try to draw attention to you that your legal proposals are at least in the spirit of our legal order, which, rest assured, can be an example of all your role models. In that regard, the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is also to Article 2 of this Law. Article 2 states that the fund has a legal personality. I suggested that after the word "face" the words "which arrive on the day of enrolment in the court register" should be added. The colleagues who spoke before me spoke about the inability to sign up to the court register of this guarantee fund. That my amendment is good and that it should be adopted, says the government's argument that it does not accept the amendment, and in its explanation it essentially says what I suggested in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29787	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 3. The draft law on the Guarantee Fund, which refers to the change in the wording of Article 3, which reads in the draft law: "The Fund may have organisational parts outside the seat, which do not have legal personality". With the amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club, I suggest it says, "In accordance with the Statute of the Fund, it can have organisational parts outside the seat, which cannot have legal personality". The bottom line is that the Statute of the Guarantee Fund foresees the possibility, not only by law. The law in this dissuasive provision is not an imperative, commanding nature, allowing the Guarantee Fund to have its own organisational parts outside the seat that have no legal personality. More specifically, more specifically, the Guarantee Fund through a normative act, or the Statute, determines the possibility of the Fund having its own organisational parts, which would not have legal personality. This possibility, as provided for in the bill, states that an organisational part of the Guarantee Fund can be formed. However, the closer provision submitted by the amendment may be specified by the competent authority, i.e. the Management Board of the Guarantee Fund, to determine which organisational parts, in which place, which, of course, will have no legal personality. You in DOS seem to be a little different in solving these issues - and, instead of helping to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, simply, if it's not about giants, big businesses, these small and medium-sized enterprises take nine euros, give someone, such as three sugars in Vojvodina! And, if it's big businesses, such as "Adriakop", you can give someone 88,000 euros, although the value of the company is about a million and a half euros on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29789	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from the Parliament of People Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29790	We were denied the minister's presence, I guess he'd give us more cream for the story of this bill, probably responding to our principle debate, and maybe he'd already accept some of these amendments, but here, now we're going to develop a discussion and we're hoping to hear some kind of comment. I am an amendment to Article 3 which speaks only about where the Fund is based and that the Fund can have organisational parts outside the seat, which have no legal personality, means absolutely nothing to us, because we don't see what the Fund will do except that it will issue guarantees and superguarantees, and we don't have any activity at all; especially we don't know what these organisational units are going to do -- unless the government has no intention, in the future, that the agencies for small and medium-sized enterprises, which it has established and which have not yet even expanded to the full extent, at some point in time, of some of its decision, do not transfer to all these organisational parts of the Guarantee Fund. Otherwise, these organizational units wouldn't make any sense if they didn't connect to these. We don't even know what they're doing, and we don't even know what they're gonna do. It all makes sense because it's all "in the package", probably in order to improve the conditions of lending, survival, business of small and medium-sized enterprises, to have some merger, which is not the first time. In fact, the government knows that later on, matter that is solely a legislative character, that is, what the law needs to regulate or what the Assembly needs to adopt, is overruled by its regulations, even by some law that would result in the government having to pass another 40 regulations. It's not the law in itself, we're used to the government taking over our role. But we'll see. I hope that once we get, within the past three years since the government exists, a report on the government's work, when someone will probably let us know that this guarantee fund has been doing business, what it has done and what the benefits and effects are. Effects we can all feel, see them on the streets; see strikes, both peasants and other business activities. The same situation includes trade activities that are on strike today. But what we can't see is that the government gives some explanation, we can't experience the government saying why it is, what the factors that have affected, where the government has made a mistake, which the legal project has not produced the expected results! We can't put everything on the World Bank and the blackmails we have from it and from The Hague. It's not that it's all the only reason that the economy in this country can't go through recovery, but it's going west in a bigger and bigger dubiosis. Since I haven't had a chance to ask the Minister a question in principle, I would ask now how many companies were in 2000, since you expect this to make it not 270 but 400,000?- I'm sorry. Were there 400,000 in 2000?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29791	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from MP Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an introduction to the amendment I have submitted, something can be said in general, something in principle, namely "later Janko to Kosovo is coming". I don't mean the late minister, he's never late, whenever he comes, he's welcome, I mean a law that's late. A lot of the law has been sour, which has cost just as much time. It also cost the adoption of other laws that negatively affect this law that is meaningless. In particular, the Privatisation Act conditioned that the state must intervene. The Serbian Radical Party MP group submitted amendments to almost all members, except for members 8, 21, 24 and 25. However, see what members are involved - these are general, well-known members who are regulated by law, for example: that the law takes effect on the eighth day of publication in "The Official Messenger", that the rules of business of the Fund are acts of the organisation, that there is a systematization, etc. That's what's right in every law. However, all of these other members are not harmonised, neither are they legally well formulated. For that reason, I have submitted the amendment. The amendment I have made concerns the consistency between individual members, and above all, that these are expectations, not the system law, as the Proposer says. The expectations are that Article 4 does not discuss the funds to be provided for in the Fund for the start of the work of the Fund. The truth is, this is where we talk about the beginning of work. But in all the other members, it's about starting, so it's about starting. Well, now, it often confuses a termology that is not clear to us people's MPs, whether this is the beginning of work or the establishment of a fund. Terminology must be a logical trail and flow in all members. Therefore, it is an amendment that the government should accept, although the law in general would not be much improved because the fact is that there are as many funds in the Fund that we do not know will be enough to set up the Fund at all. Based on the (end of the proposal) figures of 600,000 dinars, which are provided, no guarantee is given that all participants will be represented equally here, we believe that they will be selectively applied in the implementation of this law. For this reason, I propose that the amendment to Article 4 be adopted, that the funds be made concrete, and that "the funds (immobilities, business space, equipment and the like) to establish and start operations of the Fund shall be provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia". So, money for the establishment and start of operations of the Fund of 600 million dinars, which I stress must stand here for the amount of funds, is provided by payment from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2003, and additional funds for increasing the underlying capital, not the capitalisation of the Fund, can be approved in accordance with the Budget System Act. In this way, the founding capital of that fund would be determined more precisely and I believe that the amendment is designed and that it should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29793	Anybody else answer for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29794	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is the logical consequence of the amendment to Article 1 that Mr Krasic explained, in the sense that for every legal person, and even for this, in addition to having to determine the activity of a particular legal person, it is also necessary to determine that founding capital that is a condition for registration. If it exists for all other legal persons, then why wouldn't it exist for the Guarantee Fund? As a result, we asked that Article 4 itself state that the monetary part of the funds for the establishment and start of the fund's operations, amounting to 600 million dinars, is provided by payment from the Republic of Serbia's 2003 budget, which is undeniable. That's what we saw from the very explanation. From Article 4, we see that this is in line with the Budgetary System Act. In addition, with these 600 million dinar funds, practically, the Guarantee Fund, i.e. through funds from its budget, participates in the risk that banks should bear as lenders. I failed in our Budget Law to find these funds that are supposed to be set up by the Guarantee Fund, at least not visible. Maybe they're hidden somewhere. It would be our turn to at least explain what position that money is in, because if the funds are not provided anywhere -- and I know that in your ministry they're not safe, maybe somewhere in the finance ministry they exist, but it's your turn to introduce us -- then we're going to have to have one rebalancing on that one again. It would be correct that, not only for us MPs, but for the public to know, because it's probably going to be a little bit more likely to get credit this way, a lot of people will be happy until they face reality and see what's really behind this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29795	No more reported for word of this amendment? The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the committee in charge propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29796	To Article 5. The amendment bill was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. This member speaks of the Fund's resources and how they are provided. What we're looking for with the amendment is to say, "The funds for the work of the fund", and we say "business" of the Fund, "secure themselves", now the sources of the fund's revenue from "donations" and "other sources, according to the law". We propose to enter a new point 1) which says the Fund's operating resources are provided from "basic funds", and Article 4 clearly states that the funds for the establishment and start of the Fund's work are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that points 1, 2, and 3 become points 2, 3 and 4. This makes it clearer to specify the sources of funds for the operations of the Fund. Given that the minister is now already a prominent member of a political party, not just an expert, I ask him to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29797	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Rajko Baralic. The government and the committee in charge propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our proposal is to amend Article 6 of Title 2 so that it reads: "The Fund can place free funds in the short term, in line with the Fund's business policy exclusively in the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises". It is logical that any available funds of this fund be placed in small and medium-sized enterprises, not, for example, in business banks, large enterprises, budgets and the like. It explains that the amendment is rejected for reasons why it would limit the possibility of the Fund to freely place the funds. This would make it impossible for the fund to make a certain revenue through the short-term free allocation. In our opinion, it should not be allowed under the law that the Fund can speculate with the Fund's free resources. If this stays like this, it'll at least benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. And this fund will employ a number of workers and this fund will affect that we have a more expensive state administration. We're going to get into a situation where the entire economy can't make money just for the wages and material costs of newly established funds, agencies, directorates, etc. We'll increase the number of funds and agencies, but the least of luck will be for small and medium-sized enterprises, because they won't be able to make money to pay for such a expensive state apparatus.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29799	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Please, MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29800	With a few sentences to try and convince the minister to accept this amendment, because, although I am not a lawyer, I see logic in all of this, and in Article 1 of this law, which says, "For the sake of providing conditions to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia, a Guarantee Fund is established." Therefore, no other entities are mentioned: neither large enterprises, nor business banks, nor anyone else, but it is essential to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. If that is the logic, then it is also a logic to place surplus and free funds that are in any way acquired in the Fund exclusively for this purpose, i.e. in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is explained that the Fund, in essence, has a fundamental activity to provide guarantees and superguarantee. It's true and there are no disputes, but it will certainly be a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises that will need some of the craftsmanship. I don't see any reason why I can't address the Fund, that the surplus of free resources is being placed in these companies. In any case, I am fully convinced that for a long time this Fund will not have any major means to satisfy the appetites of large enterprises. For these reasons, I don't think there's anything more logical than a little bit of steam that eventually gets acquired as a surplus in the fund, we place it in small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, in order to achieve this basic function which is why the Fund is founded.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29801	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the committee in charge propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29802	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which reads: "The funds used by the fund in its business are state property." The explanation that the Government rejected this amendment reads that it is a provision of Article 1. The law on funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia has been specified that in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, the resources of other organisations, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia. This applies to public undertakings and certainly cannot relate to the Guarantee Fund. So this Article 1. The law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia cannot be passed on to this, especially as Article 8 provides for the Fund to grow into a stock company. That small and medium-sized enterprises are something that is necessary and something that really needs to represent a single country's development engine has been known long ago, but Serbia has also developed "the strategy of development of small and medium-sized enterprises" and this is nothing new. This government hasn't invented anything, and it's strange that it just now appears here in front of the Assembly, but it's even weirder that behind a proposal like this, which is supposed to be of exceptional social importance, is a sum of 600,000 dinars, which certainly doesn't represent a sum that can be the driver of one such project. It's just more than what the government separates from NGOs and, therefore, there's no saying at all that this can live with such a small amount of money. It's the same story over and over again. The idea is basically good and clear, but there is no desire for the state to implement it and obviously there is a alienation of the state from the citizens, because the state here finds its own interest just because it represents some mediator to take something that should be transferred in favour of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29803	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29804	Since it is the fact that the conditions of lending are for all economic operators, not entering into whether it is small, large or medium-sized enterprises, the question now arises whether what we have now predicted by the existence of the Guarantee Fund will enable those who need credit to come to credit under easier conditions. You know what interest rates are on loans, and it's already in itself one factor that affects that very few legal entities are in a situation where they can take credit, especially that no one else in this country can plan anything, except from today to tomorrow, so we're having a hard time deciding on loans, but, interest is clearly huge. The fund will also have an inflow of funds from the interest. So it's an extra interest to whoever takes the loan, gives the interest of 7-9%, I don't know how much the banks have, and how much will be here, it will be determined by the Statute, the Management Board will determine, probably by some kind of business policy or financial plan. The right to tell you, I don't see from these ten points what all the board of directors have to do, who's going to determine it, but it's moving further on to whoever's supposed to take credit, so there's really a country in the role of greeners, or you've found another modus vivendi how to get to the money, because it's going to be the only means that will increase that initial, initial capital, founding capital for the work of this guarantee fund, because I absolutely don't believe in donations when it comes to this. So far, since the donations we've received, nothing has gone for such or similar purposes, but only for consumption, nor is it anyone's interest to give us donations in this sense and for these purposes; there is no one in the country to make donations, and there are no other sources in accordance with the law, except interest. At least I don't see them, nor could I through the other laws, relating to this issue, to find. So these first 600 million, plus interest, will be something that might be able to spin, but again briefly. Because that and not some funds when we have in mind how many economic operators cry out for credit, especially those who have programs and have no property, and who could, only thanks to the laws of the market and their programmes, materialise through something that is sought on the market and return their capital very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29805	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29806	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party in Article 9 concerning the actions of this fund wants to specify the concepts and terms that contribute to making the guarantee and the superguarantee clearly known to the value of the guarantee. We suggest that it be up to 50% of the value, but we essentially know what the fate of this amendment is, as well as all amendments. This law was proposed by the minister while he was right-wing, and now he's left-handed, but it doesn't matter. What is the essence of this bill? This is purely marketing, this is pure for the people, by the principle of bread and games, let the people rejoice. Here's the thing. This is one in a series of evidence of the contradiction of this government. When there was a debate on the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and when we Serbian radicals, through amendments, wanted this Fund to function much like this, then there was an explanation -- we can't, gentlemen, play with budget funds, so it can't be budgeted on banking principles, so we can't give on valid interest! A thousand arguments are why one Fund, which has a huge daily inflow or income, cannot operate on market principles, and now the government is forming a fund where the budget needs as an initial capital to allocate 10m euros and says -- this fund, apart from this initial capital, will have money or capital from donations. What donations, Minister? Donations are intended. A thousand times you and your colleagues have informed the public that donations are mainly intended for the purpose of predetermining certain persons and institutions, that you have no influence whatsoever. What donations now? Donations for small and medium-sized enterprises. They'll go directly to small and medium-sized enterprises? What you're putting through the Fund as an intermediary to determine something or, what's the essence of this, the state wants, and in this case the government on behalf of the state, to help foreign banks. How can he help foreign banks? Foreign banks are already, of course, having problems with the credit rating. One of the big problems they are facing is that catastrian has not yet been settled in the state of Serbia on most of the territory, a good fellow noted it! In one part it's arranged, upstairs, and then it can't be pawned as a guarantee of a loan to Raiffeisen Bank. Since you are long ago in the service of that bank, gentlemen, you are now not only for that bank but for all foreign banks you are designing a fund that will take the initial capital from the budget, which will play a role in guaranteeing that foreign banks will place their capital. As a guarantee or a superguarantee, you'll have to make up for that property. How? By making an exception, you're breaking all the rules, and if that property, or property, can't be a guarantee in a bank, by which law, it can be registered as a temporary property of a government that serves as a guarantee. Under the same rules, this fund and the banks should work. No, you've found yourself well-intentioned, and your good intentions are always well rewarded by foreign investors or banks. That's what we saw when the cements were sold, and we'll see, especially here at the Fund, and now you're doing an ungrateful role, the role of a loan shark! There's no other way to call it greenery. Why, gentlemen, are you doing this? You don't need to do that. First, it's illusory and out of my mind that any of your reform moves or laws will come to life. Neither are these for the past three years, so neither will this one for the next year. No, but you have an interest in legally designing it, making it a marketing show, and how will those who take the loan go, and you were their guarantors, they'll see it! We hope that the fewer of them will believe this truth of yours, this virtual reality of yours, and that, if nothing else, they will protect their property.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29807	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralić and Hranislav Peric. The government and the committee in charge propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29808	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, with MP Hranislav Peric, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to article 9 that regulates the work of the Fund, behind the word "security" is deleted. We do not consider it necessary to limit the guarantee in this way and to guarantee the full amount. You don't really have to explain this. We think this solution is more cellular. At this point, the principle of mortgage loans has not yet been brought to life in the way it works everywhere in the world. No law on the right to move things has been passed, and this way this area would be regulated more correctly, compared to how it was proposed to this solution in Article 9. We ask Mr. Minister to consider and accept this amendment or to explain, if possible, because I don't think it's clear why it says "parts of the loan" here. Again, I use the opportunity to say this: there seems to be a huge mistake, a large number of people, a large number of interested businessmen, citizens, following a congregation debate, finding some interests, finding themselves in what we are saying and doing here. In this way, through the shura of press releases, through certain statements by individual officials of the parties in the media, Serbian citizens have no idea what we are talking about, no legal solutions we accept. Consider it one more time and restore the session's transmission. There are some laws that are also very interesting. I think it's a big mistake and I think there's still time to make it right. Mr. Minister, please, if possible, get an explanation or accept, if possible, this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29809	National MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29810	Ladies and gentlemen, I think accepting this amendment would make it easier for the Fund to work and for entrepreneurs. This is why: if that provision is deleted to guarantee only part of the loan, then this does not mean that, in any case, the Fund must guarantee a 100% amount of credit that a business entity raises with a corresponding commercial bank; it is possible for the Fund to, in exceptional cases, as well as in those justified situations, grant the guarantee and the total amount of credit that a particular entity requires from a particular business bank, and all in accordance with the rules of the Fund and the business policy, which will be subsequently established. I see no reason for this provision to bind the Fund's hands to support on such occasions the real programs for which there is relevant evidence, sufficient arguments and reason for the Fund to guarantee a loan in full. I would remind myself that it is said in "Strategy of Small and Medium Enterprises Development", that the government will particularly support four areas: one is the processing of agricultural products, the other is industry, the third is tourism and the fourth is electronic business or software production. If we move in line, we will see that there is no serious processing of agricultural products without serious equipment. There are no serious equipment without adequate credit lines and guarantees. When equipment is provided, then you have a problem with craftsmanship. That is why more sources and more credit lines are needed to launch such production. Let's imagine, in practice, the situation: that the economic operator required 10,000 euros in credit from a business bank and that the bank requested a guarantee from the Fund in that amount and approved the Fund in 100% of the amount. On the other hand, this same business entity requested from another business bank, on equal or similar terms, a credit for crafts assets, to run that equipment that was provided in this way. The economic account, the business plan, as it is said today, shows that this is a cost-effective investment and that there are enough elements and enough security for the business bank and for the Fund, so I see no reason not to grant such a loan. Of course, I don't think anything bad about the Minister's idea of trying this way to get the business banks into that risk zone. That would be so that we are a real market economy in which we have a uniform offer and a demand for money. And objectively, today we have a situation where there is a much greater demand for money than real opportunities and business banks and all other financial organisations, in general, financial resources, are to follow such demands. There's no real competition and there's no mechanism left that would make business banks think with a dose of risk, which would go up to about 50%, as the minister originally said here. Any other area to take from "Strategy of Small and Medium Enterprises Development", the same story will happen again. How can you make a hotel without credit? This initial accumulation of capital is an important issue. Someone came in one way or another to capital, among other things, people come in and steal and speculate, but I'm talking about regular sources. It is difficult to provide initial capital and to deal with some business, let's say in the field of tourism, when you have a hundred things to do: infrastructure, facility, etc.; meaning, there is no other way, but to provide credit. If there is such a project, which supports even more balanced regional development, then the Fund should react in a way that provides a guarantee, if necessary and fully. So that's the point. Perhaps, for example, the question of this electronic business can be viewed differently. We have smart people who know how to do these software for computer operation, etc., maybe a lot more real investment, but you have on the other hand investment in personnel, in their education, in training to build a software program, so it's going to be on the same thing again. Finally, you secure half of the loan and cover it with 50% guarantee of the Fund and then you have a walk per thorn for the 50%: it's not a registered house, it's not an apartment, you don't have other moving things that you could use as a stock, and we don't even have legal regulations, and then you're at the beginning. You almost quit your job, because there's no way you can secure another vision to cover that other half of the business bank. That's why I think we should accept the amendment, and by special policy and real parameters and demand that we appreciate whether or not to guarantee the full or part of the amount at which the loan is sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29811	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29812	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please, by inserting the cards into the identification units, determine if we have the quorum needed to work. Here you go. I find that we have a quorum and continue the discussion in detail. In the morning part, the last amendment was to Article 9. The participants included Jovan Todorovic, as an authorised representative and Rajko Baralic on behalf of the amendments' applicants. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29813	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the government has rejected my amendment, on the grounds that my amendment only complicates the text of the law itself, that its essence does not change and that it is excessive. No wonder we get such an explanation from the Minister of the Monarchist of the Left Determination who hasn't even entered the essence of my amendment. So Article 11(2) says, "When the Fund is organised as a stock company, the number of board members is increasing in proportion to the amount of capital invested." That part is not disputed so far, as it only increases the number of members in proportion to the amount of capital invested. However, I have provided for my amendment to specify in this article the composition of the Joint Committee, i.e. the Management Board. I can't accept at all the government's argument that nothing is fundamentally changing, but the text is only complicated. I asked this amendment to specify the composition of the Management Board in proportion to the capital involved, i.e. in that Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29814	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has proposed that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) The word is by MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29815	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, we have submitted amendments to Articles 16, 19 and 20; our idea is that the Guarantee Fund should have the same status as the other state-run institutions. So that's what's regulated in the first members of the law. Given that we have the Budgetary System Act, we have proposed in Article 16(1) of point 5) that the Fund's Supervisory Board should consider the reports of the auditors, which is the obligation of all legal persons, of all companies, that here, since this falls under the Budgetary System and State Authority Act, that the Fund's Supervisory Board should consider a series of auditors' reports and budget inspection reports. This is how the law complies with the Budgetary System Act. I will explain the amendment to Article 19 and Article 20 immediately. Article 19 states that the operations of the Fund are subject to audit in accordance with the law. We have here specified that the operations of the Fund are subject to audit in accordance with the law and control in accordance with the Budgetary System Act. Position 2 remains unchanged. Again, this is related to the Law on the Budgetary System, Article 67(3), and that member prescribes the need for the budgetary inspection to have the obligation to exercise control over the work and operation of the Fund, given that the Republic has control over more than half of the total capital of the Fund, which is regulated, just to remind you, Article 8(3). The bill, which says, "In the case of Article 2 of this Article, the value of government capital in the total capital of the Fund cannot be less than 51%". This means that the fund remains under state control, i.e. management. And our third amendment in Article 20(2) after the word "revision" is deleted and the words "and control" are added. So Article 20 implies that the Ministry of Business Affairs submits to the Government at least once a year a report on the results of the surveillance, together with a report on the audit carried out and we add "and control". This proposed solution completes the area of control over the operations of the Fund, since, in addition to the involvement of independent auditors in the process, it also includes the budgetary inspection as a competent authority. We believe that these three amendments complete the law and bring it into line with the Budgetary System Act and that, for these reasons, the amendment needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29816	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29817	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted the largest number of amendments to this bill and they can be classified into two groups. One group of amendments are amendments that essentially amend this law. So they're trying to make this law essentially better. The second group of amendments is one that is closer to defining certain terms, rights, competences, duties of certain entities mentioned in this law and constitutes a form of legal and technical regulation of this law, so that, in some cases, this amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 17 has the same function and that purpose, to specify and specify more specifically some members of this Regulation. So, we suggest that in Article 17, in attitude 2, the word "organization" is added to the word "organization", then, in the same attitude, the word "actuality" is replaced by the word "competence", that the word "work" be replaced by "business", and in point 3 "conditions" be replaced by the word "mode". The SRS parliamentary group considers that the state should not and should not grant guarantees for any credit, regardless of what the proponent of this law insists that, that is, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the promotion of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises should be like some basic motor power of development of the economy. However, in this respect and in this direction it should not interfere, it should not provide guarantees for loans to owners of small and medium-sized enterprises that are likely to be taken by foreign banks. It should create conditions for normal privatisation in our country, create such a legal system and order that foreign business banks, and domestic business banks, have, above all, interest, courage and courage to lend loans to those who need these loans, rather than the state to appear as a guarantee. So this law actually shows us how trust of domestic and foreign bankers is in the executive power of our country, the conditions of engagement in our country, so that it falls into the water it tells us about the great, significant reform course of this government, the trust and reputation that it has gained, above all, in the world. In just a few sentences, I would refer to the argument given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in response, which is why it does not accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 17. She responded in one part to the amendment of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to Article 5 and then practically prescribed such an explanation for amendments 12, 14 and 17 even though a good part of that argument had nothing to do with these amendments that we have submitted. So (including this amendment to Article 5) I mean amendments to Articles 12, 14 and 17. - these are amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs and should be rejected. They wrote one argument and then they just signed under every amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29818	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Ilic to article 19. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from Parliament MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought at least during the debate in particular the minister would sit here until the end and hear what we had to say to him. I had a concrete question about the amendment to Article 20. It's not just a mere formulation here. As the Guarantee Fund Act, which is spoken of by the minister, is not just one transaction between the beneficiary and the guarantor, so in a much more serious way should be approached and who is responsible for the control of the operation of this fund. As fellow Serbian radicals have said, in addition to the selective approach and the inability to develop in the right sense of the word, this business activity, because this is just one mask for the forging of these Balkan lobbies, for the minister, for the mixing, as we had the case with the Privatisation Agency, so here we are in Article 20 of the amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group, asking that in Article 20, the word "supply" is replaced by the words "the National Bank of Serbia and." There is no Minister Vlahovic, but this issue is primarily for Bozidar Djelic, or perhaps Mr Mitrovica, who represents a parliamentary group here and the government, might be able to tell us something about it. How is it going inside the DOS, this rest of the DOS on the negotiations, is it going to come to the agenda of the law on the National Bank of Serbia, who will be governor, how will this regrouping of forces go, and where are you, Mr. Mitrovica, in the whole story?- I'm sorry. That's an interesting question. As far as the National Bank of Serbia is concerned, it practically doesn't exist at all. The so-called National Bank of Yugoslavia, as Dinkic did, and now we see without the support of both Mr. Zivkovic and the rest of the DOS, declared himself governor of the National Bank of Serbia, means nothing to us, and we already see the inability to have complete control over this fund. Because the National Bank of Serbia issues both guarantees and superguarantees (when you adopt the law, it will probably stand in that law) and control payment traffic. This is how Serbia's citizens, our MPs, primarily the Serbian Radical Party, and those who do not want to support this bill remain to see how the battle in the rest of the DOS will end. Will we ever have the National Bank of Serbia established as the Constitutional Charter, which you adopted, what will be the law and who will threaten all of this?- I'm sorry. The biggest concern is not for Alexander Vlahovic, because we see that he is in top form and as such he has been admitted to the Democratic Party's main board; whether these former co-workers from another party are suffering because of this, we do not know it now, but really care about you from DOS, above all, should be directed at Bozidar Djelic, who is about to be hobbled over by the National Bank of Serbia. Because Bozidar Djelic is a man who is only 38 years old and the other night on a central news show in the second journal of RTS said everyone in the government, including him, is exhausted. You know, if someone's nervous and nervous, as he said it, is strained, there's a professor in our parliamentary benches for that area here, there are thank God all over Serbia, so let them turn there. And he will see to it that wages will be accepted in Serbia, both MPs and employees of the state union's quasi-munity, who have not received a salary since April 1st!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29820	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Ilic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicant for the amendment there is a word from MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29821	Mrs. Comic, can I, for those who listen and follow, explain both amendments since they are bound? I don't think I'm gonna go too far. Since these are the last amendments, allow me to express dissent because of the minister's lack of presence, because we've raised a lot of questions about this law. I think the purpose of this law and this fund is justified only if there are bank loans to encourage development and lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I think there is still a need to reconsider these amendments, submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. She has submitted five amendments, one of which has been accepted, and I remind you of two other important ones. First, if the funds for providing guarantees and counter-guarantees are not used, the funds should be invested through banks in lending development or fostering the development and work of small and medium-sized enterprises, so as not to go to cover the budget deficit or maintain the liquidity of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Others, too, can be covered by a full guarantee of a bank loan, given by a bank or other financial organisation. This means that a prerequisite for the functioning of this fund is, above all, bank security, that financial support is provided to small and medium-sized enterprises. As it's done so far, I don't know, all I know is that in Valjev some companies have been credited with doing their work, and one of these is the production of paper and toilet paper. I want to say that we don't bring all this down to some level just to give guarantees, but that the purpose is really to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises and employment. As for these two concrete amendments that we have tabled on behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Serbia counterparts Cvetkovic and I, they are not essential or would change the concept of the law, they are more stylish: namely, twice mentioned in the member's business of the Fund. The amendment reads: "The provisions of the law laying down the legal position of the company will apply to the organisation and operation of the Fund when the Fund is organised as a stock company". You can see for yourself that the same thing is mentioned here twice. We want this to change in style, and we have proposed that the provisions of the laws governing the legal position, organisation and business of enterprises are applied to the Fund and already organised as a stock company, which would mean that there is no mention of the operations of the Fund and the Fund twice. Also, the amendment to Article 23 — our main intensity was that those appointed by the Government, mentioned here in the plural, would be put into unity. And in this assembly is a problem of address, which I have in mind and what we heard last night in all the means of public information, namely, when it comes to visiting Carla del Ponte, the chief prosecutor or chief prosecutor of The Hague tribunal, and we are talking about MPs, MPs, presidents, vice presidents, and we respect the Hague prosecutor. It really bothers me, which is why I say, "The government will appoint a president," so there are no two -- one is the chairman of the Supervisory Board, then one is the chairman of the Management Board. So it should be said that they will appoint presidents and members, and not -- they will appoint presidents and board members. This has to be individual. It also means that there are no functions in the plural when it comes to individual cases. I hope you agree with this. So, we're not proposing any change, but just to have the government appoint a director, he's one, being appointed by the government, until the Fund's purpose is changed into a stock company. Furthermore, when he appoints the president he is the chairman of the Management Board and one is, members of the Management Board are still eight and it goes the same in one, and remains the text - within which the law provides. As you can see, the amendment comes down to the style of reforming a member and as foreseen in Serbian spelling, as well as in current legal behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29822	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, the representative of Proposer Aleksandar Vlahovic, Minister of Industry and Privatisation, is not present, so I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Economic Chamber of Yugoslavia (Principles) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Together Dragor Hiber and Ivan Andric; Together Rajko Baralić and Joca Arsic; Together Dragan Jovanovic and Joca Arsic; Together, Golub Rajic and Joca Arsic; Joca Arsic, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Before opening a principle search, I remind the National Assembly that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of Members of Parliament, and I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to submit applications with the order of application for the word of the MPs so that we can begin the principle debate. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good afternoon. I will briefly say that it is a technical law that regulates future relations, rights, property at the disposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, since after the formation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, we have proposed, by this law, the termination of the law on the Privredkommor of Yugoslavia, and you will see later in the amendments adopted by the Serbian Government, an additional amendment defined that the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro are a fact-finding way of dividing the assets and obligations now in the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. The law is very short, there are only three members. Please consider that technical aspect of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29824	Do the officials of the committees want a word? Does the president of the Legislative Committee want the word Bojan Pajtic? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations want the word with abroad, People's Job Vlatko Sekulovic? No, I don't. ) Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have exhausted by order of authorized representatives, we are moving on to a debate in principle, in accordance with the order declared for the word of the MPs of the public according to Article 90. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first registered speaker, MP Zoran Krasic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29825	This is a bill that only finds it necessary that there is no longer a Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. Of course, this law is due to the change, i.e. the adoption and adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the transmposition of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, from one federal state, a federal state to a state community in which, for a year now, no one can say precisely whether it is a union, a confederate, and in which its characteristics could be seen that it is a state. So, as a consequence of this country's pre-composition, it is that we have lost a large number of federal institutions, that I also use this new term, and so the need has arisen for us today, using the power of the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, to specifically conclude by law that the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia has ceased to apply. What else does this bill suggest? It suggests that the organisation of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, in that part of Belgrade's headquarters, moves to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, a number of employees cross over, and funds become the assets of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The basic objection of the SRS does not apply to this bill, because this law is no more significant and does not change, but rather we object that a chamber system at the federal level enters the chamber system at the republican level, which we consider to be wrong, because it is essentially not based on the principle of volunteering of economic operators who want to be members of the Chamber of Commerce or Trade or what is otherwise called, but rather on the principle of obligation, due to payment of membership and contributions, something that has been held for 30 years by the same shell of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for the same 30 years. It has its own organisational parts in the district's headquarters and, believe it or not, it continues to be tailored in these regional chambers of commerce by that economic policy, the economic policy of all those in power and who will be in power tomorrow if such a law on the Serbian Chamber of Commerce remains. It is good that some MPs have noticed that something called external trade arbitration should be preserved in some way, not only because of tradition, but because it is an electoral court where the parties themselves negotiate the jurisdiction of the court to resolve some controversial economic relations which, however, can be resolved in our courts, but have their own specific weight and specificity when they are resolved voluntarily, by recognising a chosen court as a relevant court, whose decisions are binding. There is a problem, which no one, practically, can guarantee that external trade arbitration, which was in the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, can retain that degree of independence and independence and an objective application of aliens, and, above all, it applies these commercial tensions to the disputed relations of economic operators. So our remarks refer to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which gets something. The fact that it receives this law, in practice, has to drown in something that works on the principle of obligation, the obligation for membership, in order to maintain an economic administration that has irreparably good income, is asked about everything and informally affecting those centres of power where credit is decided, some benefits of individual economic operators; and in the meantime, for these past two years, from that structure of regional chambers of commerce, they have defused the staff of special government agencies on the ground, where, about, if we are making a connection with the previous bill, we will have a situation that in one indirect way direct funds towards selected business entities along with, of course, the guarantee of the budget of the Republic of Serbia or this fund that was just on the agenda. Believe me, a good part of these funds through small and medium-sized enterprises will be spent in the election campaign of individual DOS parties, the state will guarantee banks that take that risk, and when it is over, there will be whites in small and medium-sized enterprises, there will be everything! Our objection to this bill is essential, because of something that no longer exists, and the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia does not exist for two or three months, they have ended it all on the chamber level themselves, we are merely finding something here, but this is the law that we agree to next, and I suppose most of you feel what this is going to come about.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29826	People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29827	The DSS has always advocated a joint state with Montenegro and has always insisted that Serbia-Montenegro's ties are not formal, that they are not all about political agreements and rotten trade, but that they be realistic and have a real basis both in laws and in some other relationships that are not only legal, but economically and which will contribute to building a strong state community. We still felt that if something can be whole, it should not be shared, and if it is something that will quickly lead us into some European flows, into European integration, especially the European Union, that such integrations and such a state community should be seriously approached and worked on its construction rather than decommissioning it. From these positions we have joined the work of the Constitutional Commission, the creation of the Constitutional Charter and the Law to implement the Constitutional Charter. Given that the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter has not regulated the issue of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, the issue remains open, just to be agreed on by those who are responsible for it. At this point, given that economic relations with abroad and internal economic relations are at the level of the state community and that these resolutions are currently needed and they need to harmonize Serbia-Montenegro's relations, we can ask the question -- why is it separated even to make two separate, why do we separate and break up the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia to create two chambers of commerce, and how will these two chambers of commerce work together? Will we, as we have so far, have at an international fair, as we have unfortunately had now and now, three stands: a special stand of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, a special stand of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and a special stand of the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro, or will we now have more stands? Perhaps some would like us to have the stand and the chambers of commerce of Vojvodina and some other areas! Are we going to go to that degree of depravity in Serbia? It should be kept here that economic relations, especially economic relations with abroad, are at the level of the state community. It should therefore be borne in mind that a certain type of co-operation between businessmen must remain and take place at the level of the state community. How does the Chamber of Commerce come to Yugoslavia? Whether it was discussed by the Council of Ministers and decided that such an institution should not exist at the level of the state union; that the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia is something that only damages, and does not do good, and that two separate chambers of commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro, which exist, should also be carried over to them by the jurisdiction of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. Is it better if the state union of Serbia-Montenegro performs in a world with separate chambers of commerce, with Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and Montenegro's Chamber of Commerce? What about our obligations arising from a single chair in all international institutions and organisations, what about our obligations that in some institutions where the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, or a single Chamber of Commerce, should represent Serbia-Montenegro? Are we going to share a chair there, or are we going to rotate there or how it's going to work? Whose interests will be represented there? Given that Serbia has left all economic resolutions to Montenegro through violation of the Constitutional Charter and that the Constitutional Charter was violated when the Council of Ministers was formed, will Serbian businessmen be able to realise their interests and will they in any way achieve them?- I'm sorry. Who cancels Yugoslavia's Chamber of Commerce? Is the Government of the Republic of Serbia competent to lift the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia or that Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia must be abolished in another way? I think it must be abolished in another way and that the motion to abolish the Chamber of Commerce, which we have received, is not in accordance with the law or the Constitutional Charter or with the needs of the state! A unilateral act by the government of the Republic of Serbia leads to the creation of two independent systems and contributes to those who advocate independent Montenegro, customs at the Serbia-Montenegro border, for separate currencies, for two completely separate economic systems. They are responsible for abolishing the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia in this way, and that there are two chambers of commerce in one country, which are independent, not that there is one that will unite them. The Constitutional Charter provides for the harmonisation of these relations and the law, and today, representatives of the Serbian-Montenegro government have gone to the European Union to convince them that the action plan for harmonisation of relations is successful, as we are agreeing, that all this is going to be normal during. It's going normal, but in the direction of decommissioning, not construction!- I'm sorry. If some institutions, as many as - so in all these times of separation at least formally connected and established a thread between Serbia and Montenegro, such as the military, such as the Federal Aviation Control Board and some other areas, if they were neither the ones that connected us to break them now. Who's in the interest of breaking this? Serbia? I don't think so. Montenegro?- I'm sorry. Yes, especially those who won the presidential election in the parol -- independence over three years, a referendum over three years, and who built their entire political platform on separation, not merger. They're okay with this. This doesn't fit the citizens of Serbia and Serbia! I think it's a disgrace for the state of Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro to have three, two or more different stands at one fair, agricultural or other, where one state will be represented! Does this speak of a country that is heading towards harmonisation of relations, establishing a single customs, economic, monetary and any other system? Of course he's not talking. There's talk here, and there's work. What about various memberships in international organisations where the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia was? What Chamber of Commerce will now be a member of Serbia or Montenegro? Is that regulated? I can't see from this that it's regulated, nor can you see it. Who's going to inherit that membership? Who's going to inherit the property? Who owns the property? Is this property of a state, a businessman, and is it likely to be divided by a territorial principle that the property belongs to the state in which it is located?- I'm sorry. Who does this property belong to? Is it property of a businessman or property of a state? That's a question we also don't have an answer to. What about arbitration? There's arbitration in every chamber. Who's going to arbitration now in some dispute, and how is that going to work out? So many issues remain completely unregulated, deregulated, and this will cause confusion and deepen misunderstandings. In this way, it does not contribute to building a single economic system at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and I do not know at all what the ministers in the Council of Ministers will do and whether the interior minister and the minister of foreign economic relations agree with this. Do they agree and do we have the Council of Ministers' view that this should exist? I have no doubt that the government of Milo Djukanovic will say - yes, it is great for us, because this only contributes to independent Montenegro and the construction of independent systems and institutions in Montenegro, and in three years or less, when we discuss the referendum, to lead to independence and we will already have an independent institution. Are we going to tolerate this injustice again, which is happening again against the citizens of Serbia, in this assembly to vote. Is this our interest and whether we will again in this assembly to pass laws that are not read, and then we hear, as Minister Svilanovic said -- who passed the law on administrative fees where taxes are increased, and then ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who sent us the law and who voted the law in the government, ask who has proposed such a law: Minister Milosavljevic wonders who has proposed the law on administrative fees, where the tax for the entry of foreigners is so increased. He voted for that law. We didn't, we warned here, he didn't read at the government's session, passed the law, and then he wondered how that law passed the government. Whether or not in this situation will simply pass this law without knowing what the next step is and what will be done. Are we again going to order those who favour an independent and independent Montenegro, neglecting the interests of Serbia-Montenegro's entire state union? Are we going to build border areas from our municipalities in Montenegro? Will the Pre-Polish Community and others be border areas in which we will have customs duty, as we have with some other states, perhaps even stronger because some customs rates differ drastically? It doesn't all lead to harmonisation. It leads to destabilising and deepening misunderstandings. The DSS cannot accept such a decision and we think it is a place to discuss this in the parliament of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which is competent to decide whether this should exist at the level of the state union, given that both external and internal economic relations are at the level of the state community and in the jurisdiction of the state community and that this Parliament is not competent to decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29828	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I expected to hear from you something about this bill, something more than you've given in your explanation, but you've only given us two or three sentences here, and I haven't even been able to hear it because of the grace. You've obviously completely retreated into a mouse hole or you've been assigned not to irritate us a lot, not to speak much behind this pay phone, only that time passes and that the caravans pass, that the dogs bark and that the laws are passed! I have an obligation, of course, to comment on this law and from the point of view of the Serbian Radical Party on the matter of chambers of commerce at all. As for the concrete law, regardless of what we have obtained from this surrogate state called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the consequence is this law, but if you read that Article 2nd point 1 better, you did not have to pass this law at all. So it didn't have to go to stop there's a law on the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. He could have been renamed and that the Chamber remained operational, with me not wanting you to get the wrong idea, because we're not in the mood for chambers to exist at all, but this is from a legal -- technically, my opinion. The Chamber - not in that previous communist system, not in this transition, not for the last 10 years, not since we passed this Republic Chamber Act, has justified trust, or it has not led to those expectations that you spoke of when you proposed this law. It's a relic of the past, something that's been overcome. It serves mainly to imprison politicians, people who haven't found their place on boards, not to say exhausted politicians or those like Radoslav Veselinovic, who proved himself late in the 1980s as a communist feather, as a director of the flag group and as an experienced communist, and this is the rest of our communism, this chamber and apparently found himself in the position of the director of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I'm listening to him this morning, direct inclusion, I think it was BK television or maybe even the First Programme, reporting from Slovakia and saying, "We've had good conversations, fruitful conversations with businessmen and representatives of Slovakia's government." Today we have individual conversations, our businessmen are talking to businessmen from related branches, and we expect some contracts to be concluded. All I see is that there are some results from that operation for the last two years and these going abroad, I don't know who's paying?- I'm sorry. All I know is that his salary is so big that it's in your head when you hear it, and so is the clerk in the Chamber of Commerce, and if we were to compare ourselves here with them, we'd have a salary like their cleaners. They're chambers today, but someone's paying for it. You know that very well. As far as pay goes, I'd love to trade with Veselinovic, but there are other things, I can't do what's against my conviction. That's normal. There's a question here of a number of employees who are out of a job. Article 2 clearly states, it will be taken as long as it takes, and it is not said what will happen to these people. We already know what's going on, what are the programs and how many are getting employees from social programs, apparently, that they can start something with, some new business. They all make up a number of those who wait for employment. I sincerely hope that those beautiful wishes of Minister Milovanovic will come true about the employment of 600,000 unemployed this year, that they will also find places for these people who will be jobless here. Article 3 is not very clear: "Sex trade arbitration, educated by the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, continues to work as the Foreign Trade Arbitration of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia". Here now, Vesenovic must be rubbing his hands, but, right to tell you, if we go that way to the republic, and even when it comes to trade, in foreign affairs they're going to perform on their own, it's not going to take us anywhere. That's not good. We have come to the situation that as a prominent businessman, Ceda Jovanovic, for example, harmonizes customs rates with Montenegro. Who we'll have here to do it, we'll see. When these external trade arbitration matters are at stake, as far as I know, there are people from the Chamber who are in charge of these economic relations with our embassies abroad. We haven't seen anything so far that they've brought us good and they've connected anyone to anyone except that they've connected us to the Slovenians. We wonder if this is the interest of our economy and our chambers of commerce, these Serbians, to lobby in the interest of Mercator; to build these malls here and to import goods from Slovenia, to sell us here "Fire" refrigerators that are 30% more expensive than LG refrigerators. And now to ask anyone who is involved in the production of such or similar goods, whose interest is that?- I'm sorry. That's what the Chamber does. Then what's that for? If you were to ask the businessmen, and even these minors, and first of all, we should ask them if they have any ubiquitaries from any chamber, everyone will tell you that there is no scale, except that they want to stick themselves in some lobby somewhere, in order to achieve something at the Serbian government. Do you know what your regional chambers in the interior do, any, uh, stealing, royal? They call on businessmen, and it's the directors of these social enterprises and these private companies, and then they explain to them -- we're, you know, in transition, the government has no money, no budget, no law like this, such a law, you have to understand that it's necessary and it's necessary. It'll be, two, three, five years, until 2007, I don't even know what year, so let's get into the Council of Europe, get into the European Union, and then we'll have this kind of relationship with these, and then with those, we'll help you with this or that, but now you put down some tension and don't strike and don't confuse the people, you have to endure some of that difficult economic mile. They're practically your outcast departments of the Serbian government. But you can't ignore these growing social tensions, and that here, if we go from individuals today, every family has a hard time living, but it's even harder to fall, believe those who deal with economic activity and have some businesses, trade and crafts, have employees and feel responsible for them. They need to pay their salaries, they need to pay their contributions, they want to keep that job, because they live on it, and many other families. These people are making it even harder for everything that's going on. Then what's the Chamber here? It's absolutely nothing. In addition, in addition to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, we also have the Chamber of Commerce in Vojvodina, the regional chamber, the city, i.e. Belgrade Chamber of Commerce. We know who's in charge of this Chamber and my colleagues are going to talk more about it, they have more information, I'm not going to take away their subject. I wonder after the adoption of a new constitution, which we can already recognise what it will look like, how many regions will be in Serbia, which the degree of independence will have, will we have one such bill after the adoption of that constitution that will say - a bill on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. Then everyone will want to have their own power center in those regions again. It's an inevitability. No matter what she could continue to do, this chamber of commerce, if you think that the chambers should exist. I see you think you should exist, because you are essentially communists, everyone here in that DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29830	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29831	I'm done. However, I do believe that these are the overcome relics of the past that we need to shake off. This law, the previous law, the lease law we had, are all laws that only involve the state more in responsibility and in obligations and mixing with businessmen, instead of letting the economy shake completely and work freely on market principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29832	The word has been given by MP Rajko Baralic, the SPS parliamentary group; the next reported for the word is MP Slobodan Adzic, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29833	Madam President, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I wanted to say well-respected journalists, but they don't live here long ago, for us here is a fundamental issue and procedure - should the Parliament of the Member States decide to suspend the law of the ex- federal state? That's the first question. The law that we need to adopt today has four members: it is the first that the law ceases to apply; the fourth is when it comes into force; and the third and fourth governments have accepted amendments to the SPS and Mr Hiber, so the powers of these members remain in force. We are passing the law today to repeal the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia and then there is something really not clear about it. The substance of the law itself is still in force, as both Article 3 and Article 4, with the consent of the Government, are transferred to the powers assumed by the old law and remain alive. I think it deserves an explanation. I wanted to say that all those who pointed out that the state of Yugoslavia was, unfortunately, right after the Constitutional Charter. We are a community of states talking about some kind of unique appearance and the way to Europe - between the so-called Member States in Kolovrat are working with full steam, police officers are working full steam, customs and taxing and the legislator, protocol, as if it were two completely independent and even hostile states. It is still the first time a small state such as Montenegro has been appointed as a hegemon to the Serbian people and to the Serbian state. Not again, but for the first time - vases for those who earn! Don't worry about my time. My notebooks aren't in this room. If the momentum is in what is called the law to preserve the property of the Serbian state, not to go to Montenegro, the property does not belong to the state of Serbia. Chambers of Commerce were associations, business entities were paying high fees to these associations, and one average accountant in a few days can determine exactly who all shareholders of assets are today recorded as assets of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. It would be fair to have that property returned to those companies that paid for it. From fellow MPs, it would be normal to reduce the larma to a level of tolerance that can be spoken. As far as arbitration is concerned, it is interesting that your MP and president of one important committee have submitted an amendment that you have accepted, leaving for us a dilemma and a question of whether you have the consent of all the participants in power when you propose and design laws. Here, I further note, the first time since we are sitting in the third year of this term, a law that has four members; it will be passed in such a way that from its basic proposal it will remain only to cease to apply and when it comes into force, and what is its essence, we have changed to the amendments, and this is about how seriously you have approached this business. I also support colleagues who said that chambers should experience modernization. This was proposed by the Union of Businessmen from Cačka in 2000 and Gradac in 1997, Mr. Minister knows about what associations it is, but a proposal has already been submitted for the adoption of the law on the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to make the chamber a state association on a voluntary basis, that it cannot be entered without the consensus of those who are already inside and that the chambers serve the basic purpose, not to serve to finance several hundred or thousands of officials, only in Serbia. But this law, as well as some others we're going to consider in the coming weeks, are laws of special political need, of necessity, to ensure that -- so secure quasi-squasi-squasi-square, I'm talking about SCG. It reads here on the other hand - accepting this amendment ensures that the issue of property, rights and obligations of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia is arranged in a way that participation in the division of those assets, rights and obligations has a relative share in the economic chambers of the Republic of Members. The devil's proportion of participation, relative to real pay! The state of Montenegro has paid nothing for this federal register for three years, and once we adopt this law, if we adopt it as proposed, it will take something of what it does not belong to it, it could take something like that! Until today, they have not paid a single dollar for the federal budget, not even for the salaries of their officials. Therefore, here we should have the courage to say that we continue to finance, as the state of Serbia, two administrations, and why do you do this - you know now, you've criticised it earlier, only it has its own deadline of use and it has to stop once! It's really interesting to hear what you're saying; it's just going to be a while, so it won't be interesting for you anymore. What you are doing today seems to last forever, and that seemed to some others. Take care, learn about others' mistakes because their own are sometimes very expensive. You're a living example. ) I don't come to him as a living example, I come to him as a good example, Mr. Kragujevac, but just slowly, it tickles slowly, there's no more TV Bastille, there are now these "baby visions", but all as it is, these "pinks" and other "quicks", all slowly as you came up with, slowly crowning what is called power for you today in Serbia!- I'm sorry. You're getting stronger and stronger every day, and more intensely, it's a sure sign that in the time that's coming, someone else is going to exercise power here. We're fine, thanks for asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29834	The word has been made by MP Slobodan Adzic, the DSS parliamentary group, and the next reported for the word is MP Lazar Marjanski, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29835	Dear fellow Members of the People, on the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, I would like to begin by saying that I cannot support it, for several reasons. First, the law contains a series, for me, incomprehensible texts both in the members of the proposal and in the explanation. I'd start with an explanation. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is except for the Constitution of Serbia and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, which is Article 20(5). It is not clear to me how it is possible to pass this law by calling for Article 5, Article 20, which provides that federal laws and other federal regulations in areas not within the jurisdiction of the state union under the Constitutional Charter are to be applied after the Constitutional Charter has been entered into force, as general acts of the Member States, until their competent authorities put them out of force, except in areas already regulated by Member States, when there is a Chamber of Commerce Act in Serbia, which means that this area in Serbia is regulated and does not need to be regulated by other law, but only needs to be complemented by the existing law. Article 2 The Serbian government's bill suggests that the assembly should decide without Montenegro on property and documentation of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce. No matter what "others" of Serbia-Montenegro can ordinarily agree on, and no matter what some solutions Serbia may take, part of the property belonging to Montenegro, I think legal principles must be respected regarding the protection of the status of the property, whoever it is. We should not forget this occasion that we are a member of the Council of Europe and we must apply the principles that apply to all Member States of the Council of Europe. When it comes to the property of the Chamber of Commerce, we must adhere to these principles, primarily because of us in Serbia. No member of the Constitution of Serbia, the Constitutional Charter or the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter is the basis for Article 2 relating to asset and Article 3 concerning external trade arbitration of the bill, so it is a wrong attempt to apply Article 20 in this case Article 4. The law implementing the Constitutional Charter. Because that position concerns laws in areas within the jurisdiction of the state community and in a specific case is a matter which is not intended as the jurisdiction of the public authority. We also had the opportunity to get acquainted with the conclusions of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce Assembly, held on 28 February 2003, on the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. In those conclusions, I noticed a series of illogicalities. First, the conclusions were reached at the PKK Assembly, where Montenegrins did not take part in the vote, so the question of the legitimacy of these conclusions is raised. Secondly, instead of discussing the PKK status of the Council of Ministers, the Serbian government draws conclusions. No matter what Serbia is closer to me than the state community, I believe there must be some order in the state, when it comes to respect for the institutions and their competences. Third, instead of drawing conclusions, and the Serbian government is considering and possibly supporting them or not supporting them, the PKK here supports the Serbian government's conclusions. So we have conclusions, support for conclusions, which is not unknown in political history, but certainly not a feature of a multi-party system. I don't want any further on the illogicalities. I would make a concrete proposal that the draft law on the termination of the PKK law be adopted, but that Articles 2 and 3 of this proposal be deleted, or otherwise that this law should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure, so that the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro would give a proposal to the Council of Ministers, which in this matter would rule, and then propose an amendment to the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, which would bring Serbia in line with the chamber system of the state union. Unless it is going to create a state-level chamber system, in which case the issues in Serbia are settled on their own. I would advise the Serbian government to protect the current assets of the PKK and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce as state property, as these institutions had the status of state bodies in the previous period. Also, to allow, in the future, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and possibly the Chamber of Commerce of State to be an association of businessmen and, above all, a representative of the interest of the economy in the real sense of the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29836	There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29837	Dear People's MPs, I'd like to ask a question - should the PKK be abolished or not? It needs to be abolished for several reasons, but there must also be an economic chamber of Serbia-Montenegro. Since Yugoslavia no longer exists, the name itself must be abolished. Why must there be a single chamber? For a number of reasons. I'll start with the PKK first, not to repeat the mistakes that have been made over the past four or five years. Who's financed a huge number of people so far? The most financed by Serbia, and the PKK's effect is extremely small and inefficient. What's been going on at the PKK so far? You had to pass 15 offices to get one piece of paper, and it always ended up with a blue envelope or something. Otherwise, you couldn't get permission. What else is there to do? Gross people in the PKK must be reduced to an effective number. This is a huge number of people; they don't complain if they don't receive salaries, and these should wait to earn their salary. That means they have to be efficient and they're not bribery. Why was this PKK ineffective? It had politics involved, and nothing could be done until one of the politicians said so. For example -- in Libya, Yugoslavia can only get a job if the PKK has concluded a contract between Libya and Yugoslavia. It's safe to get our company's job in huge numbers. It was simply no one wanted to go or it was forbidden to cooperate with Libya. The chamber must exist for several reasons. If there is a Chamber of Serbia and the Chamber of Montenegro, they cannot perform uniquely. It must be a unique chamber for the collection of debts and for the integration of our vast potentials, companies and their objectives, to be performed abroad. There are related companies that have the same goals, but there's no one to connect them. Serbia-Montenegro's Chamber of Commerce must be just a connection service. I would also propose not to interfere at all, that there is no Chamber of Commerce of Serbia-Montenegro but that there is an association of businessmen outside the reach of politics, outside the reach of the law but with the control of the government. All chambers of commerce are inefficient. Only an economy can create its own advice, an association, which will be effective, which does not need political entry, which can go to Libya, England. Wherever politics gets mixed up, the former or the present one, there's no luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29838	People's MP Joca Arsic, the SPS parliamentary group, reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29839	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in connection with the proposed law on the termination of the PKK law, the government has tried to prove in its explanation that this is in accordance with the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro ("The Official Journal of Serbia-Montenegro", No. 1/2003), where it is prescribed that federal laws and other federal regulations from areas which, according to the Constitutional Charter in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, are applied as legal acts of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, except in parts contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Charter. Here we have a bill that I do not see that is particularly contrary to the provisions of the Constitutional Charter because it is an organisation of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia which is a free association of economic operators at the level of the common state, now Serbia-Montenegro, given that we have abolished the existence of Yugoslavia by the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Execution. The proposed solutions in a total of four members have practically suspended the Chamber of Yugoslavia in all its segments, except where it is said who will inherit the property of the Chamber of Commerce, the federal state of Yugoslavia, and in one position, that is, in one sentence of Article 3 of the Foreign Trade Arbitration, educated by the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, in the sense that it will continue to work as an external trade arbitration of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Later amendments and one amendment adopted on the proposal of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, combined with the amendment, or addition of the amendments made by the Committee, as well as the amendment made by Professor Dragor Hiber, are trying to save what is to be saved can be in the proposed solution to suspending the work of this chamber. We have submitted amendments since we believe that some form of co-operation between the two republics, two Serbia-Montenegro member states must exist. This form of co-operation in front of the European Union is trying to explain and prove that we will harmonize the relations of these two Member States, that we will make a single customs. Here we have also heard arguments from the predecessors that customs continues to exist, that there are differences in customs regulations that are mainly at the expense of the Serbian state, because so much is not produced in Montenegro. Given the different customs rates, it is certain that these other members of the state will be privileged. For all these reasons, we believe that, when already adopted and needed to amend the current Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, a proposal for a solution that would replace the lack of this law, and the solution would be some joint activity of these two chambers, an agreement between the two chambers and the possibility of co-operation of economic operators in the territory of the entire state community. I think it would be more logical than to pass a new law, cut this like scissors and say, "This doesn't work, this doesn't work, this stops, we end Yugoslavia and what the Chamber of Commerce will do to us now!" It is certain that we need certain forms of co-operation, certainly, because it is seen from these interventions that were done on this "sake" bill that is before us, given that these amendments are trying to save what can be saved; and in the external trade arbitration that is being passed, it is said that it will be independent, the subject, completely independent, but that it will be within the Republic of Serbia, or the Chamber of Serbia. In what way will she be so independent, that she arbitration on one basis and another if she already assumes the arbitration of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? As I said, the government's amendments were accepted, I don't understand how this is going to come out now, how this situation is going to work since there are other amendments. In this regard, we also said that Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 were deleted, and that the government accepted our amendment to Article 2 - erasure of the position 2 and tried to compose the Committee's text in its text - that the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, in accordance with these needs, would take over the number of employees. This section is about takeover and employees. As you can see, this is about a certain expansion along with this amendment so that this, according to the proposal, is concluded with the agreement of the Serbian-Montenegro government. The property was said here: the property is primarily the property of economic operators from the territory of the former Yugoslavia. The property is thus resolved by simple division between the two members, with the consent of the government, by what principle, whether the principle will be proportionate to the size of the economic operators of one side and the other -- we will see whether it will be proportionate to what was being paid in the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce from Serbia or Montenegro's territory. You can't see it clearly here, you can't see how or how it's going to work, according to the agreement between these two governments. As these two governments are being negotiated, we have also seen in relation to the Constitution, and in the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, we have also seen in the implementation of common foundations related to the harmonisation of relations. Approximately, the debate and this business over the division of assets of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce will last longer. One of the disadvantages of this bill is that the job is not armed. It is not said what time it is that workers who are now in those bodies, if this is in the voting day, they will be able to manage, or the question will be what is needed for arbitration and what are the needs of these chambers of commerce for the takeover of workers of the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. I think the most correct thing would be for the government to withdraw this bill which has already been quite amended by these two amendments, to make a new correct proposal for an act that would unite and harmonize the relations of economic operators in both members of the state community. The proposal does not have to come out here, it can be a joint proposal of these two chambers, I mean the Chamber of Serbia and the Chamber of Montenegro, so that in such a way they regulate relations and co-operation, and then, when prepared, we pass a law here on the termination of this law. Otherwise, the adoption of this law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, without something concrete, is certainly not good. A law needs to be passed that will be respected in the future and that will correct what I was talking about. Without that, this text is not worth it. Under the agreement, the law could only be passed after the agreement on the termination of this law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. I think it would be the correct thing to pull this out of the process, to sort out the way we suggested, which I think there is great agreement and commonity here in the opinion of all opposition parties, given that they all referred to criticism the same way, as I understood. In this way we would do a text that is in the interest of both state communities, both chambers of commerce and, most importantly, in the interest of the economic operators of the entire state community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29840	The People's MP Vukosav Tomašević has the word, and next, the MP, Stevan Kesejić, was declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29841	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I want to take this opportunity because I have no other option, according to the Rules of Procedure, to protest as a member of the Committee on Information and Culture, the conclusions of this Committee on the direct transfers of assembly sessions. I remind you, the Committee recommended that the Assembly be re-pronounced whether or not a direct transfer is needed, while respecting the 1997 decision to return the cameras to this assembly. Since this is not done today, Mrs Micic, I urge you to use your authority, to make additional efforts and at least until the new declaration of this assembly on this issue, which may already be in the first day of voting, provide a direct TV broadcast from the Assembly. If most in the congregation decide to transfer, at least we'll know who's against it, but we'll all be obliged to respect that decision. Dear colleagues, the DSS has pointed out on several occasions both in public and in this parliament in an indirect way to break up the former federal state and now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. This is seen in the fact that certain political forces that form the ruling majority in this assembly and in Serbia, or at least a large part, publicly advocate the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, and in fact make a whole series of moves to dissipate such a community. So the ruling majority in this assembly, i.e. its representatives, supported the Belgrade Agreement, supported the Constitutional Charter, and then began a whole series of moves, I say, to break up the common state and devising these two documents. This came from the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, so it continued in drastic form through the Law on the election of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly. Then it continues through some other lower legal and legal acts and in the National Assembly, and here it is. I think that today's law is one of those moves that in a indirect way, and that in some way the public and public opinion in Serbia, if possible, do not understand or understand, is further growing between the state union of Serbia and Montenegro. So this is one of those moves. It was said in a debate that the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter did not regulate the issue of the Chamber of Commerce of the former federal state. Now you can ask the question, what was to be done with that chamber. If we accept this thesis that this chamber should be abolished by law, it is certain that this congregation is not a place where this idea and purpose should be implemented. So it's probably a legal question and the lawyers will better interpret it. I believe that this bill should have been put on the agenda of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, so that the debate is being held there; the majority that is here has a majority and there are representatives of Montenegro, so let's hear what they say. It's an address and a place where this law could be passed. In this way, this must and can be interpreted as a unilateral act by the government of Serbia and the Assembly, if the law is passed, it is just another small contribution, but certainly a contribution to the story of Montenegro's independence. You know, every time any topic about the state community and any law on the state community is found on the Parliament's agenda, we always give this kind of argument to the Montenegrins. We spoke on this subject when adopting the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, and now it is repeated. When they want to draw an account and separate themselves from the state community, Milo and his in Montenegro will then state everything that has been done on our part and what has been done in this assembly, and that will be their significant argument in favour of the thesis of their independence. They will not pay much attention then to the current coalition at the federal level, and they will issue you the bill, and that account will read: that the Serbian government and the Serbian Parliament have made a series of unilateral moves at the expense of Montenegro without consulting Montenegro. Another thing, in economic terms, no one can convince me that this move is something that contributes to harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's relations. I'm going to say something that may seem pointless, perhaps heretic, but it could be considered that this Chamber of Commerce may be left at the level of the state union and that the economic chambers of Serbia-Montenegro should be abolished. Did we at least try to sell, say, such a thesis and provide such a solution in talks with representatives of Montenegro? I think that would be a far greater contribution to harmonising Serbia-Montenegro's economic and other relations than we do. When it comes to harmonising relationships, strange things happen. The more Serbia-Montenegro's economic relations harmonize more, the stronger the border with Kolovat, the more serious customs customs and control are growing. By the way, I'm from Prepolje, and now I've been there for the weekend. There, at one point I thought, was the hardest border in Europe. There are hundreds of trucks and tow trucks and people waiting for days to cross that line. Be careful how many times a great economic expert Mr. Ceda Jovanovic goes public with a statement that some part of the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro is harmonised, so the column is bigger. I don't really understand these things. After all, when it comes to this Chamber of Commerce, I think it is a very controversial solution for the property to be automatically taken over by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I think the Montenegrins will object. The second thing is whether this property should be given to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce or to the state, that is a big question. In the end, and that will end, when there was a debate in this assembly on the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, if you remember, the DSS was against the law and we advocated a completely different concept of organisation. Today we stand on that concept. We also believe that the Chamber of Commerce within Serbia should be arranged in another way. We also felt that this Chamber of Commerce at the state-level community could remain and had its own justification, it should be considered that the business chambers of Serbia-Montenegro should be abolished, and that this chamber should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29842	The word has been made by MP Stevan Kesejic, the next to be declared by the People's MP, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29843	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you see, if television was included today and this proposal of the law on chambers of commerce, or the suspension of the validity of the Chamber of Commerce, we would see what tomorrow's press release will be that we have received a new reform law, of course, the proposed down, Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic will get political points. However, I believe that this is the duress of one of these proposals, because the SRS parliamentary group and the SRS programme at all do not support the chambers of commerce, for the simple reason that we believe they do not serve the purpose that would be needed to reform the economy and for the sake of a more successful economic and economic recovery of our country at all. Of course, this concept of the Serbian Radical Party's Chamber of Commerce has not supported it before, but I must say that the abolition of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce is very harmful at the moment. It is harmful in the first place because this way will create a much larger number of those who will destroy Serbia's economy by lobbying, because these chambers, which are already in existence, so the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Serbia, the regional and regional chambers of commerce, will continue to provide benefits through their lobbyists from political parties, and of course, Chanak will be ahead of it, because he will get that cake you promised him. Resolution 1244, which has been signed, this way, on a small door, is being adjudicated. In this way, it is legalised to lose the market in Kosovo and Metohija and in the southern province completely. This law on the suspension of the validity of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce has other dimensions, which is that each ministry has its own chamber and, for example, the finance and economy minister will have its own chamber; the minister of economy and privatisation of his chamber; then, the president of the AP Vojvodina's chamber; and, of course, small escapes in certain regional chambers of commerce, which will exclusively be political chambers of business, and no association of businessmen, which the Serbian Radical Party normally advocates. I can do it on the Bosniak, maybe you'll understand. I also believe that the draft law on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce was implemented and the agreement with the Russian Federation, which otherwise did not live, and where the SRJ had a partner, where reciprocity could be exchanged, the economic operators could do so, unlike current refugee leadership, where the commercial chambers themselves would be exclusively in the hands of politicians and they would eventually be politicised. Furthermore, this law does not determine the jurisdiction of either the Serbian Chamber of Commerce or the province's chambers of commerce, or regional chambers of commerce, which was important to establish because the abolition of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce defined certain responsibilities and obligations that the Republic's Chamber of Commerce and regional chambers of commerce did not have. For these reasons, this is a clumsy proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that the minister, or legislator of this law, should simply withdraw this bill from the procedure and propose to the National Assembly a more complete and summary bill, which will be acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29844	The word has been given by MP Zoran Nikolic, a member of the DSS, and then by MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia. In the opening statement of the minister, who is here in our Assembly representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have actually heard a brief explanation that this law consists of three or four members and that he simply regulates that matter, therefore, to abolish the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia and to move jurisdiction to the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. It is not disputed whether this law will be passed or not. We are here making arguments as to why this law should not have entered the procedure and why it is not needed to be voted on, but it is not good to remain without answering many of the questions that DSS MPs have asked here and are really opening up. So it's not good for the minister to remain silent on these issues. I think it's okay for the minister to come out, answer these questions, and perhaps the DSS MPs will change their mind, although I don't believe there are any quality answers to these questions. Here is the biggest issue that has been raised, is this assembly competent to discuss this matter in this form before the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly? The passing and voting of this law is a fact-finding matter within the responsibility of the common state, i.e. the Serbia-Montenegro Parliament. Article 2 states that rights, obligations, assets and other assets, as well as documentation and jobs of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, are being taken over by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Did Montenegro have its share in assets, resources, personnel in the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, which we are trying to abolish with this law?- I'm sorry. I think so. Did Montenegro ask and agree to adopt this law?- I'm sorry. I don't think so, at least not officially and not institutionally. Then we need to discuss and see what decision-making centres this has been discussed in and at which centres it was agreed upon. In light of these individual solutions for Article 2, it is also said that it is also prescribed that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is taking over and employees of the required number. Now the question is, what number is that, are they all employees, is that half of the employees, is that 15% of the employees, and where is that arranged again?- I'm sorry. So we remain deprived of answers from the minister, who is here, I suppose, familiar with these members, that at least we know what will happen, if nothing else, there, and the employees. Also, external trade arbitration says Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is a legal successor, so it will also take over those obligations in external trade arbitration. Is that consistent with Montenegro? I don't think so. It may be, but then we need to find out where it's settled, whether it's agreed by the president of the state, on the one hand the V.D. The president, from another newly elected president or Prime Minister. Then it's just fine to hear it, that this deal exists and that there won't be a problem. Because this is how we give good material to Montenegro to say that we are working on this disunity and that we have not been willing to enter that common country called Serbia-Montenegro. If these forces, which want to secede, are strong in Montenegro and if at least here we have reached consensus on a joint document called the Constitutional Charter, I see no reason why we should now do the same thing that some are trying to do in Montenegro. Let me finish, so I expect the minister who's here to give us answers to these questions. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: Let the man go, you can see he's busy. Mrs. Milka, don't throw it away. The majority of you in the Management Board have saved you from receiving one half a million fines, how realistic you really should get, how much you throw out of place.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29846	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group; she wants to take advantage of another announcement on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to take the opportunity to say something more about this law, with a reference to the amendments that have been given, although in particular we will talk about it, but as one appeal to the minister, if he is still here, and there he is, charming the ladies around him instead of listening to what we are talking about. The draft law that comes into the assembly procedure and has four members, and of which two members suffer the amendment, and the Government itself realizes that she missed the topic, so she submits two amendments, besides the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, these amendments cannot be given, it would be correct for the law to withdraw, so that it should be done nicely, that you at least satisfy the form and that it comes back into the assembly procedure. You know, you're always making fun of us here. This isn't some informal group. This looks like an informal group, there's a lot of people who shouldn't be sitting here, there's a lot of people who shouldn't be sitting around legally without talking about those who don't know how to behave and who came here like that either to kill time or because they're threatened to lose their pay. We should, as a legislative body, take care of the form, because it is the basis and the essence. A colleague from the DSS just commented on why congregation meetings are not being transferred. Well, they can't be transmitted. Who did you commit to with such conclusions? To vote for such conclusions, that it is proposed to the Assembly to reconsider its decision, it is just madness. Only lunatics could raise their hands for something like that. I'm sorry to insult you, but you're jumping into your own mouth. You cannot vote for something that is legally, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are inconclusive. About whether a decision should be reconsidered, it can only be done by the competent authority, it's only the Constitutional Court! We can't do that. Which none of the MPs, which none of the MPs have proposed an act called the motion for a decision on, say, the abolition of TV transmissions or the re-establishment or not respecting the interruption of the state of emergency, or I don't know what you'd call it. No one's doing anything but talking. The uptake of authority from individual institutions and individual people goes to the point where they will not be able to end without criminal responsibility. Once again, I would ask the minister to assess, there is time, for this law to withdraw from the procedure - if he considers these amendments to the unauthorized authority, which he could not bear - to redecorate the text of the law and then come back to the Assembly, otherwise we will pass another law that can formally fall. It probably doesn't interest anyone anymore, because we're only used to haughtiness, passion, and some majority that are already being debated. We'll see how this whole thing ends about Vesic and Covic and the other lobbies! When we talk about the proposal of another member of the Broadcasting Council, we're going to explain the situation a little bit, what's going on in that sphere, again with the review and the television broadcasts. Let's hear it from that minister now. I don't know who the DS is anymore, who the DSS is. It's like a cat ate his tongue. You've all been ordered to remain silent, to put on white gloves, and slowly negotiate who will be in the coalition after the next election. First you have to win enough mandates to get those three or four groups you've designed to get 126, but we'll see what happens after the election and who will be able to do it with who. It's just, we won't let, no matter what the TV broadcast is, the people get the wrong impression that there's some position here and some opposition outside the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29848	The word is made by MP Milorad Mircic, the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Dragan Shormaz, the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are rare occasions when we have such a law in the assembly with so few members without having such a bile debate. All of this is due to the non-seriousness of the proposing, in this case the unseriousness of the proposing representative. Of the two essential members who contain these changes as a logical follow-up to the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, because the adoption of the Constitutional Charter ceases with the functions of an institution, the Government is doing so clumsyly so that these two members suffer amendments, and is forced to adopt these amendments. Why did it cause such a heated debate? For the simple reason it is evident that no moment did the legislator of this law, the one in charge of the executive government, take this job seriously. Gentlemen, we can express political views, we Serbian radicals, in principle, against the chambers of commerce as a way of organising a roof organization over the economy, but it's not worth it now until we're in a situation, and I hope that soon we will be, by the will of the people, that we will be a majority partner in power, so in the draft of our law, we can do it. But we find it strange why you as a majority agree, which is very important, not because one institution is abolished - the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia by the Constitutional Charter, but because the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia was created on the day of the formation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which consisted of Serbia-Montenegro, that property, in the case of the separation of Serbia-Montenegro, is divided 50-50, half-half. The government is proposing a law where it says that the assets of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce are being transferred to the jurisdiction of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and thinks it's done the whole job. She didn't, gentlemen, she just started and she got us into new problems. How much is this property? Was that a big deal? It was not, but it hated the government to do so, to give a financial report on how much the business chamber of Yugoslavia's obligations, how much revenue it has achieved, how much it has been said, in the cash register, how much money it is, how much total value, how much, in the event of Serbia-Montenegro's separation, will remain Serbia and that we can adopt such a simple amendment and addition of the law on the basis of this data. But, no, it's all done in a hurry, it's all done with only one goal -- the more complicated, the more complicated, the harder it will be for those who come to power after you. We're gonna have some bad problems. My dear colleague, I'm not upset, if you're thinking of my personal irritation. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I've watched you for a long time, and in some other roles, and sometimes you change your hair, you never change your temper, but you always change your hair. So don't warn me. I am a living witness to everything that you and your party have been going through. And it's too unserious for me to have sex with you. The bottom line is that the government has not entitled itself to clarify some things in these two members of the bill, to give us an idea, to adopt this. Hey, buddy, you got any problems? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I'm asking you, what's your food like at home? Do you have good food at home? Stay on the food. We can joke. Of course, I don't interpret this personally. Maybe this is also my colleague's warning that the government didn't do their job well, so a little bit on the other court, and we're kidding. The minister is here, is there going to be some big mistake or some damage if the minister says - MPs, I'm sorry, I'll show you everything. It doesn't have to be in law enforcement, so let's make that clear. Dear colleagues, remember how much discussion and controversy we had when it came to the Office for Accounting and Payment, and it was said from the mouth of the Finance Minister that employees would be provided, that they would be transferred to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, or Serbia, or to other state institutions. What are we waiting for, what have we experienced? The law is not regulated, and there are unemployed, extra labour, everyone on the streets, protesting, seeking their right; who they blame - blame us, MPs, with full rights, I don't mean us from the SRS, because it's negligible. It is the assembly's fault that it did not ask the minister to include it in the members of the law to define and make it clear - that they can organise on a republican level accept that number of employees, and the rest will be on the Bureau, for requalification. Now, this law needs to clearly define where we're going with these people who are employed in the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce, no matter what the number is. Someone says small, and someone says big. It doesn't matter, every man is fate to himself. You're too funny, you're for the Montenegrin Parliament, there's no smaller law, no bigger, what you'd say -- three points, let it go, pal, because we're talking about human destiny. Mines are somehow responsible for those people who work in the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, and what is to be said to these people -- you know, gentlemen, we broke it down, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia has no obligation to you. Yes, it's not a small administration, but let the law say, for all employees, the government takes the responsibility to hire them, to find them a job... I'm not paying attention, it's too serious, you don't take it. [[Sagar.]] You have a "pi" half of the delay when it comes to understanding, I understand that. When you get to the "pi" quarter, then we'll be able to talk, and now stay on the "pi" half. Namely, it is our appeal that the minister in front of the government take this law with these amendments in the members of the law, come before the Assembly, and we can do it tomorrow if you set a day for the vote, it won't take much time. It will be maximum for five or ten minutes, I don't even believe the representatives of the parliamentary groups will report that they are discussing it if you put all this into the law. It's ten minutes from now, but I get it, and I understand it's your stubbornness! You want to prove that you can do anything most of the time. You can, and that's a rule of parliamentaryism, but remember, we always point out to you, you can't as long as you think you will, you can only do as many people and citizens of Serbia allow you!- I'm sorry. One thing at a time is that you're out of a job, not because it's a force of opportunity, but because of your incompetent government, asadas, and in this way you're leaving extra people out of work, so ask the ministers and members of the government, the Members of Parliament, the honourable colleagues, are they going to go out to those employees? They won't, they won't, you see how they're already defending themselves. The finance minister says I'm not going to be the victim of the reckoning. What does that mean? In a political sense - I'm packing my bags and I'm going, here's the other one, he was in one party yesterday, he's on the main board of the other party, tomorrow he's going to be with us, we don't mind, he's an expert man! If he sets up a qualification with us, he can go free, of course, we can't stand being a monarch, but it doesn't matter, it's a profession. But, gentlemen, you representing the majority parties, and in this House, you will give answers, you will file accounts, you will be evaluated by the people. They'll be fine to pick things up like that, and you'll explain to those who were out of a job: well, it hated us, we were observant, we couldn't impose so much on the minister, because the minister is really a busy man, he's so busy in the privatisation business that he doesn't know what he's going to do, he doesn't have free time. When we ask why you sold such a cheap company, he says why you didn't participate, why didn't you buy it! Those are the manners he's worn before. Those manners have been shown before, in the government, Mr. Minister. You have to go out for this pay phone sometime to admit it, and you came to the government when we were making a coalition with the Socialists. You've been coming to your Resort Ministry, looking and praying, but then you worked with Mish Beck, so you didn't have to pray very much. Then it doesn't suit a minister who knows what kind of trouble it is to come to, to all the questions why it was done incorrectly in privatisation, to interpret - what don't you buy? We don't have enough... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... We don't have enough money, Minister, we don't think like you do. You didn't have any until the Democratic Party promoted you, but don't be fooled, they won't suffer for long either. Now that you're at the top, in politics, it's always like that, most people are going to save their heads, so you're going to be at the bottom, and then you're not worth a second thought or a later story, you're going to be the one you've got right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29850	The word has been given by MP Dragan Shormaz, the DSS parliamentary group; the following is MP Sladjan Mijlovic, the DSS parliamentary group, and no longer registered for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our esteemed and dear MP cards, MPs, should I say in Bosniak that you understand? And you didn't understand... It's right in front of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29852	Please take care of your language. Yeah, you take care of how you talk to your colleagues! You have no right to argue with me, I just warned you nicely! (Dragan Shormaz stands behind a pay phone and pollutes with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29853	Come on, get the fuck out of there! We have before us a bill on the termination of the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia, is that right, Milka? And the first question that arises -- is the government of the Republic of Serbia at all, signed Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Zarko Korac, has the right to submit such a bill to us? We don't see it here in reason, nor are we informed whether the Council of Ministers of the State has discussed it at all. They could have discussed, we know that, perhaps even at telephone sessions, since the last time we attended and heard from the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, Minister Boris Tadic said and stayed alive -- we had a session, but a telephone session. So, at least on the phone, the Council of Ministers could have discussed this, so let's see if they agree with that. On the other hand, jurisdiction -- even why we should be discussing this. Let's let the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro discuss this. I am not concerned that some fellow MPs have said when the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia ceases to exist that it will work and that harmonisation will be, what will be the solution, in terms of co-operation between the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro. They will find a solution to these two governments in something that will surely be called "the body for co-ordination of the alignment of the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Montenegro". There will be a group of people who will do something, coordinate something, receive compensation, and simply only they will know what they're talking about and what it's about. I don't understand why we are working in this case for the benefit of not Montenegro, as some MPs here have said, but for the benefit of the Montenegrin authorities. This is about 1/5 of Montenegro, given the number of votes their presidential candidate has received. I don't know why we're doing something like that again, and I don't know why we're doing it right now, and I don't know why we're doing it in an emergency procedure, because we've got a bill of law on an emergency procedure. We put out the PKK completely unnecessaryly, because we all know that the first one, as it said in the Constitutional Charter, which goes into disunity and maintains a referendum and makes a decision on independence, will simply lose everything we have acquired in the international community and on political, social, economic organisations and everything else. Well, let Montenegro go, let her first propose to shut down the PKK. Why are we doing this completely unnecessaryly, let Montenegro show it's for that and let it do it. How do we know that in the negotiations on economic harmonisation, the European Union does not have a vision of us having, as my colleague Vukosav Tomaševic said, one Chamber of Commerce. Why wouldn't Serbia-Montenegro have one Chamber of Commerce? If we're talking about a more efficient and cheaper state, a smaller number of employees, why not one Chamber of Commerce, why two? How do we know that the harmonisation of economic relations, which is under way, over the next two years will not result in a single chamber of commerce being the solution? Then it is logical for it to be the successor of the PKK, the business chamber of Serbia-Montenegro. I agree, like all the other DSS MPs, that this law is completely unnecessary, that it is bad, written backwards - application and that it should be withdrawn. If the government doesn't withdraw it, we will certainly vote against this bill. The only logical solution would be to withdraw this law because as it is, it is unworthy to be voted by this assembly. Let the government try to write at least something more precise and clearer and only then make a statement about all of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29854	There is a word from MP Sladjan Mijlovic, the DSS parliamentary group (not present). Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON DISCONTINUING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COURT OF SOURCES (SINGLE) under Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. The MPs Rajko Baralic and Joca Arsic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, the committee in charge proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29855	We need to get back to the beginning of this story. It is a very serious observation that the practically substance of the law has been amended by amendments, and that only one who regulates something that is not the most important here remains valid. We have submitted an amendment to delete Article 1. (I'm not reading the explanation) We think there should be a chamber of commerce, whether it's going to be called a state community or whatever you want, anyway. Those who do business with us expect it from us. If that's not clear to anyone, it's a serious problem. Whether it should be modified, defined in some other way, we leave it to the Minister and the Government, but objectively this is the problem. But since the other arguments we have offered today Mr. Minister has not accepted, I don't expect him to accept this one either. But we will enter into the real consequence of the delusion that this can be solved like this. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-20-0.u29856	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Jovanovic and Joca Arsic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Since this amendment has been adopted by the Government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. This would be the end of today's work. Resumption is tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the seventh session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I understand we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Radoslav Veselinović, Marko Jaksic, Miodrag Stamenković, Emilia Krstic, Dusan Ilic, Dusica Angelković, Jelena Milenković and Milos Radivojcevic. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the termination of the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMMUNICATION OF JUGOSLAVIA (the follow-up in particular) The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has tabled an amendment proposing to add a new Article 2. The government accepts this amendment. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Golub Rajic and Joca Arsic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
