ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32634	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I find that by applying the electronic system, we have a quorum to work on. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Marin Kresic, Aleksandar Stefanovic, Branimir Trajkovic, Sredoje Mihajlov, Predrag Stojanović and Petar Misic. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE FINISHING POLICICAL PARTIES (the follow-up in principle; details) The word has the People's MP George Mamula. He's not there. The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic. He's not there. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic. He's not there. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. He's not there. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. He's not there. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. She's not present. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic. He's not there. Are any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? There's no application. The proposaler's representative is not here. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Bratoljub Janackovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does he want a word? He's not there. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. Does he want a word? He doesn't want to. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Here is a word from MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group for this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32635	The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 2 and is asking for item 2) to be changed and to read, "The election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic, MPs, mayors, the president of the municipality and the council," because what the promoter has stated - in-house bodies, and this in brackets, does not even stand as a constitutional category, nor can it mean anything in our legal system. There used to be incoherent management bodies, and today they no longer exist. This term means nothing anymore. With this amendment, we want to point out that the Proposer, in fact, does not know what political parties are. Political parties, they should probably be forms of organisation of citizens who want to exercise their constitutional right and deal with politics and act freely, so that in this way they form and express the political will of citizens and perhaps something that most political parties differs from all other forms of association of citizens, that is to participate in elections for authorities of territorial autonomy units and units of local self-government. It is a fundamental lack of the whole law, and it is seen in Article 2, which is why we had to submit this amendment. According to the current practice and what the proposing offers, the political party is an undefined group of people who can change their form and form, in general, functions. The political party differs from other groups of citizens, associated groups of citizens because it is an integral part of their action to participate in the elections, and it is mandatory to participate in the elections. It is not seen in this law, but it goes with certain terms such as in-house bodies, and probably, in future changes to the Constitution, the President of the Republic will elect this assembly, so I find it simply strange how the funds are planned and how the election campaign of what is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can be discussed at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32636	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32637	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3, which reads: "public sources, within the meaning of this law, make up funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the territorial autonomy unit and the budget of the unit of local self-government, approved to finance the regular work of political parties and the cost of the election campaign." The amendment reads that behind the words "self-government" is the point, because the text that follows "authorised to finance the regular order of political parties and the cost of the election campaign" is absolutely not necessary, since this law has already regulated it. Therefore, the amendment proposed that the remaining part of this text be deleted, so that it would not appear in practice that local self-government itself determines and approves some means, thus potentially eliminating individual parties. Also, in position 3 after the word "memberage" is added, the words "incomes from the regular order of the political party established by the party's statutes". It must be taken into account that there are parties that have a very large number of members and the possibility of earning otherwise. Therefore, it is not necessary to rule out the possibility for the party to access the funds, meaning, with some regular work. This option is excluded here in point 3. Only parties are left with the possibility that what the state has set for them is the only source of their income and the possibility for the parties to earn their own funds is denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32638	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32639	With this amendment, we tried to sort out the proposed Article 3 and Mr Blazic explained the basic things, that the public sources of party financing certainly represent those funds that the parties provide over the budget and from the budget and that this part of the sentence behind the score is completely unnecessary, that it does not mean anything, because if what is said here, then it means that there are other items and other purposes for which political parties are financed by public funds, so this is particularly potential in another context. As regards intervention in paragraph 3, we propose to add after the word "membership" the text "incomes from the regular work of the political party established by the party's statutes", as so far the parties have been able to deal with economic activity, rarely engaged, and in practice there have been different interpretations of the party's publishing activity. As a rule, the parties performed publishing work, as they addressed publications to citizens, voters and sympathisers, and within this activity there are likely to be some revenues besides covering the costs invested in the new publishing work. We believe that this way Article 3 is defined in a legal way, in a moral way, in a way that ensures equality for all participants in political life; but again, we need to know what the political party is. The political party is not every kind of interest group of citizens. Liberals are not a political party, they are represented as a political party to keep the Alliance's wealth of socialist youth, and are therefore adhering to all those in power to preserve the availability of the property, revenues based on the property. In Kragujevac there are 500 metres of their ownership that betray and earn money. You have other parties created on the street, created by voluntary contributions, and I have seen here for sure five people since the start of a multi-party system in Serbia who know that political parties have arisen. Don't, please, put a political party in the same basket that acts for the sake of view, ideology and participate in the elections, and those leeches and parasites who join in to preserve their wealth. If you want to save the financing of political parties, one member can regulate it. It is the political party that participates in the elections, it is the political party that has more than 3,000 or 10,000 members, the political party is the one who wins the seats and crosses the electoral censorship. (President: three minutes. Yes, yes. These are political parties, not political parties, but an interesting lobby.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32640	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Jelena Maslovar-Ralević.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32641	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Union has tabled an amendment relating to Article 3(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's a bill of law. We demand that the article, after the words "incomes from the political party's assets" be put on hold and that the words "incomes achieved by voluntary work of a party member" be added. In addition to those private sources of funding for political parties, we think that the revenues achieved by voluntary work by party members should also be determined, as many party members want to help with their work, volunteering, also want to participate in the actions that the party organises, with the economic situation very difficult. It is their only option to help and facilitate the party's funding in some way with their contribution. I think this amendment is very real and needs to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32642	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janačković. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32643	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to amend and read in Article 4(2): "The funds set out in Article 1 of this article are allocated to a relative number of parliamentary, or parliamentary seats". Also, in attitude three, the words "till the tenth" are replaced by the words "up to the fifth". The funds from public sources, which are provided for the financing of the regular work of political parties whose candidates have been elected MPs, i.e. the committees are set at 0.15% of the budget. We Serbian radicals believe that the amendment solution to the distribution of funds is more logical and fair. The minister for this speaker points out that this is the most important law today in Serbia, as he wants to get closer to Europe through this law and transparently demonstrate the work of political parties. A dozen laws have been passed in this parliament that do not apply, and even if applied, they have reversed life in Serbia and businesses. You think that in Serbia you will rule most, and as a villain, Mikhail Steiner, who when he comes down from power wants to destroy Serbia, destroy the Serbian cradle, Kosovo and Metohija, to destroy Serbs in Kosovo. Surely you know that Serbian radicals and the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32644	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32645	We are asking this amendment for two amendments in Article 4, so that the funds from public sources are not divided in proportion to 30:70%, but relatively the number of MPs, or council seats. It's probably not a fair form of distribution either, but, we assume, it's the only logical way to distribute funds. In this way, virtually all defects, purchases of parliamentary and parliamentary mandates, and we have an example in the National Assembly. We had here at the beginning of four parliamentary groups, of which three political parties and one major coalition. I want you to gather now for yourself how many MPs we have. That's why for three months, we couldn't get funding from those public sources, from the budget, because, by splitting up, DOS couldn't agree on all the parts and how much of that cake. In the second part of this amendment, we ask that these funds be transferred from the budget to the fifth in the month, not because of any particular interest of the parties, but because within that period, the commitments that exist towards the state, according to public utility companies, telephones and other services that are paid, primarily by these means. This is also part of financial discipline and regular service of all the obligations that political parties have as users of certain services. I think this suits all parties and it's not a big commitment or a great burden on budgetholders, I mean, first of all, municipalities, the Republic and the Autonomous Region, that they can meet it by the fifth of the month, in order to essentially get those funds back to them again through paying these services. As far as our first intervention is concerned, there are likely to be fairer and better ways to distribute these public funds, but we believe that at this moment it is the most acceptable system - proportionate to the parliamentary and parliamentary mandates to divide these dedicated funds from the budget. In this way, neither defects nor departures nor the formation of some new groups are prejudged, but to freeze this situation, to simply know which political parties they are. I've got to get back to the starting topic again. After tearing, defecting, anonymous candidates, hidden candidates, the question is whether anyone deserves to use public funds because it is not a political party by definition. We will constantly, within the framework of this bill, return to the question of what is the political party. Until we resolve this issue, we will have everything and everything, we will have 269 registered political parties, and probably no more than four political parties in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32646	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic - Trifunović. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Not present. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. I'm asking the MPs to turn off their cell phones. It's unacceptable to have cell phones on in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32647	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 4(2), should instead "proportionately number of MPs, or parliamentary mandates", on our proposal, stand for "votes won in the elections". Why? The reason for this is a kind of tradition that the parties that won power in September and December 2000, on the round table in 1992, which was organised by the federal government, precisely represented this concept. So I think it's pretty good to stick to that concept right now. On the other hand, in order to ensure the long-term viability of this law, it needs to overcome a distinction that exists between a proportionate and a majority electoral system. The allocation of funds on the basis of the number of votes received becomes irrelevant whether the electoral system is proportional or majority. So all those who have their trust in the elections are participating. I find that extremely important for another reason. In fact, Serbia is a complex society, with many differences and differentiations both in political and ideological, ethnological, confessional, ethnic terms, and in the tradition of Serbian society it is to cultivate different political options. In this way we avoid one principle that has lived, first of all, in Anglo-Saxon political systems, which is the bipolarity of parties. In this way, even those parties that do not have that much influence in the electoral body, and represent certain important political concepts, i.e. certain important political ideology, which citizens support in the elections, get their chance and enable them to live. I think it's for a society like the Serbian thing. So the more political, ideological and other flowers bloom in a house called the Serbian state, the better it will be for that country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32648	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32649	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, I don't know if Mr. Minister, or the motionary, will read the stenogram from this session and see what we suggest, since he is not here today. Otherwise, several committees have been scheduled today to begin at this time, and some have already begun, some are scheduled to begin at 12:00. I don't think that's correct, that we here, because people went to those sessions, we can't have a debate in principle, but we've cut this debate short in a hurry. But I don't want to lose this little time that's left. On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4, where in paragraph 1, I propose that the percent of 0.15 be replaced by 0.50 and 0.1 replaced by 0.30. In the same article, we propose that attitude 2 be changed and that "the funds of the 1st member's position be allocated to political parties on the basis of votes received and on the basis of the mandates won". We want, in this amendment, to sort of reconcile what has been proposed from different sides of parliament and from different political groups, where one or another method is proposed. We want this amendment to establish that the funds can be shared on the basis of force in the electoral body, or on the basis of the number of votes, and thus the mandates won, whether they are proportionate or a majority system. It is evident how many committee members and how many MPs, elected by a proportional or majority system, have received votes. This kind of formality in the proposal or, as is said here, there is one problem with the coalition as well. How will DOS, based on the votes it has received, now share its members' money from the funds received to fund political parties? In what way will it determine how many parties have won the mandate, now disintegrated, of the DOS? Will anyone know how much Social Democracy won its term and how many have won this phantom parliamentary group's mandate? On the basis of which criteria will determine their validity, whether only because they are numbered here and numbered, and we don't know what's behind them as a electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32650	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, and by MP Toma Busetic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32651	On several of these examples, it could be determined that unless we have, conditionally speaking, a definition of what the political party is, then we get involved and we come into a situation that we can't solve the problem. As for Article 4 of Article 1, we have a situation that in some local environments the phantom group of citizens has more committees than political parties. Under the letter of this law, the group of citizens cannot finance themselves, and then it turns out that those parties that have not received the voter's trust at the local level receive undeserved funds. It's that illogicality, if we don't have a definition of what a political party is. I guess the political party is that group of citizens with political goals participating in the elections, expressing the will of citizens, expressing readiness to regulate the state, society, to lead, to exercise power, and that group of citizens so organised that they cross the electoral censorship. Anything that doesn't cross the electoral censorship, anything that wants to join with a coalition, it's not a political party, no matter what it has political goals, because every man has a political goal, because little today has, in the political sense of words, idiots, who only think about how to feed and sleep. That's why we need to define what a political party is. Secondly, I get the impression that this bill was written by a man who is not a party member, who does not know what a political party is, what freedom of political action is and how the opposition political party can act 15 minutes on television. We now have a lullaby we listened to yesterday, to prevent financial leverage, to make some balance, so that some political parties don't make unjust progress and some fail. We have it every day. Look at the RTS report, only certain MP groups on RTS for the show "Yes and No", only some can be Doctor Slavica's patients and where others are. What equality are we talking about? If the Serbian Radical Party wants to have one television show on the private media, so many thousands of dinars must be set aside. You have people from DOS who call and don't ask for money, but only they don't pay them to be on that TV. It's that inequality. Now you want to put us all in the same basket as the funds. That's impossible. It is impossible because, first of all, the law on political parties goes in order, so the law on funding political parties, the law on elections, the law on the media. If we don't have equality in the media, which freedom of political action we're talking about. Finally today, since the law on financing is, this public from the balcony, when it was about these more important laws, there was no public interest, and now CESID and those primordials that should be pushed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32652	The word has been issued by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32653	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 4 is absolutely unacceptable, regardless of our specific amendment, and attitudes 1 and 2 are incorrect. If we do some flash analysis, these funds from public sources are insufficient. For the whole Republic, 0.15% of the budget is about 500 million dinars. In view of the fact that in attitude 2, it is proposed that 30% of the funds go linearly, regardless of political power, that all political parties get the same, then we will have a situation that, for example, Korać works with his party that has one MP has 10 or 15 million, and the SPS with 30 MPs has the same 10 or 15 million. Where's the reality? She's nowhere to be found. On the other hand, if we're talking about local self-government, 0.1% of the budget, usually local self-government budgets in these small municipalities are about a hundred million, in this mid-200, and in these slightly larger 300, 400 million. Political parties that have even a good number of MPs, moving for example to 40-50%, will have, depending on the size of the municipality, hundreds of thousands maximum to 40-50 000. If we take these small municipalities with 50,000 annually, a political party that has 50% of the council, what can it do with 50 grand? That's not enough just to pay the phone. Since the heating price has gone ten times since 2000, it will not be for heating if there is heat. I think this whole member, who's the key, because this is about funding, about the amount of funds, is simply unacceptable. The criteria that would have to be played here are primarily the number of parliamentary mandates and the number of votes. It happens that according to different systems of calculating the number of parliamentary mandates, the number of votes, and hundreds and 200,000, goes for nothing. I think this amendment, which could have been a little different, should be accepted, because the bottom line is that based on these funds, based on these criteria, no serious political party will be able to finance itself. Of course, those who have made this law have resources from other sources. They will be financed by wealthy individuals, who are now close to the authorities; there will be no funding of a million, two, these are huge funds, and with these funds, the serious political parties will not be able to finance themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32654	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5, the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32655	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests, welcome. Regardless of any negative connotations that have been made at your expense, you are, and all those who have been visiting and who will be visiting, always welcome in this home. As far as my amendment is concerned, I will be very brief, because it seems to have support not only among MPs, but also among parliamentary groups, and I hope that the government will also be very much in the mood for this amendment and will accept it. He refers to part of private income. In particular, on physical faces. Article 5 states that a natural person can contribute to a party of 10 average earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. So instead of those 10, I suggest that it stands 12, for the simple reason that it would allow individual individuals to finance one person in individual parties, i.e. to provide one personal income throughout the year. That's a simple reason. It doesn't seem like much of an intervention in the law itself, otherwise it's a great law, and I hope it'll be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32656	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32657	This amendment is a good reason to point to the unconstitutional nature of this attitude. I don't know which bright mind could limit my availability as an individual. Do I have 20 average salaries, 50 or 500, as a physical face to give or tear in the street, that's my sovereign right. There's no right for a stranger to tell me how I'm gonna spend my money. That's the first and the most basic thing. If the promoter in this position 3, this amendment refers to it, in a way he wanted to limit individuals who wanted to help a political party, then this stranger is a complete instrumentation. What's this about? If an NN individual pays 500, 600, 700,000 dinars over the year to a political party, and its total income as a natural person registered in the tax administration is far less, the individual bears criminal responsibility and is subject to tax control. The problem has been solved. Instruments exist in the existing legal order. There's no need to limit it. Who can, as founder of the Serbian Radical Party... Yeah, I'm the founder. There's a lot of them here. There are many, who have been on the street since the start of the multiparty system, have not caught the connection in 1996. Mircic is here, Stamenkovic is here, we shared flyers, and your prime minister boasted that he shared our flyers. There's a lot of them, and we know how a multiparty system came into existence. We do not allow our rights, pleasure and passion to be denied in this way, at the very least. Politics is passion. If I separate money from my family to finance my party, if Stamenkovic's checkbooks are to be issued to a doctor, who is it that can limit what we have? We can't, we won't let anyone give us the right to do that. If I'm the founder of the party, I have a reason for making it. If I've paid more than my income, go after me. But don't hold back the freedom of political action in this way and rush into my right, as a citizen, to freely dispose of my means, in the way I wish. I said, I can rip my money out in the middle of the street, I can give it to someone who's begging, and I can help my party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32658	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? You have no basis for replication, MP Zoran Krasic expressed his position and did not look back in comments on the content of your amendment. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32659	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start, although I didn't plan on doing so, from Article 7 of this Law, because Article 7 can only match small parties, such as. The civil union of Serbia; and the president of the Natasa Micic National Assembly held an unheardly discussion in particular, in the morning session, and concluded a discussion in details with 83 MPs. I'm not saying that for your sake, but for official notes, that someone knows tomorrow the way you ran the state and this congregation. In this Article, Article 7 provides that revenues from membership fees held by the political party cannot be higher... (President: For the same official notes, MP, this is about Article 5, not Article 7.) In Article 5(7), point (b) is replaced by the following: The bill says that the political party can only benefit from membership fees of up to 100% of what it receives from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's crazy, because that height that the political party will charge from its members determines the number of members themselves. This can apply to small political parties, such as the Civil Union, such as the Democratic Alternative, there are others here who are blackmailing, the Democratic Party, not to count, not to waste time, but to large political parties with serious human and technical infrastructure, this is nonsense. For such parties and for their way of functioning and working, this is the purest possible nonsense. Furthermore, in the position of Article 5(2), the minister shows that he does not know the organisation of political parties at all, and suggests a law on the financing of political parties, so that the political party must be informed of the assembly of shareholders and bodies of the management of the legal person. What shareholders in the political party? There is an initial committee for the establishment of a political party, founders of a political party, members of a political party, but shareholders do not exist. It seems to me that there's a Mr. Minister a little confused the pots when he wrote one of these, and normally, the party has organs that take care of its business and in this way the serious political parties control their leadership. I don't want to talk about the position of the 3rd member anymore, Mr Krasic explained it nicely. More - revenues from the political party's promotional activities are revenues from the sale of publications, symbols and other political party labels. With my amendment, I asked for more to be added -- and other revenues from the regular business of the political party established by the statute. It is perfectly normal for a political party that has its own programme, which has its own organs, to have the right to generate revenues from the economy. It's something perfectly normal. A law like this, I said, only corresponds to political parties that are in power and that are small. Serious political organizations, with... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... In serious political programmes, this law doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32660	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32661	It's a shame there's no representative of the motion to see what the government has proposed pointlessly. You see, in Section 2. The government has given two sentences that are absolutely acceptable, but the third sentence absolutely doesn't mean anything. He says that the political party must be informed of the assembly of shareholders and bodies of the management of the legal entity that contributed. It's the internal thing of that legal person. What would be in the law on the financing of political parties? Why are we asking this to be chosen? In addition to this indifference, imagine, if a legal person, or director, does not inform his managing authority, the political party is responsible for the offence. Look at the criminal provisions and you'll see, the political party responds if the legal person who contributed has not notified his governing bodies. What bright mind could think of such a thing? Experts with whom a carpalian is killed instead of a lamb. Next, about attitude 3, it's really pointless and talk since it's absolutely unconstitutional and I'm absolutely sure this amendment will support this new democracy, especially when it comes to attitude 6. We say this, that only the first sentence should remain in point 6. - the political party can acquire property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia; How - in accordance with existing regulations. When she acquires her property, she also has that property, benefits, manages, earns income. This is where they tied the proceeds. I can't be bigger than anything. You have shut down the Liberal Party of Dusan Mihajlovic. They have higher incomes based on the assets they have, than they can count on revenues from public funds or membership fees and others. If you put it on purpose, because of them, that's another thing. Then think about it. What you have provided for in paragraph 7 - restrictions on funds and the connection of funds from public sources with funds from private sources and a restriction for some balance - will only mean that the parties in power will commit even more abuse. It doesn't have to be just money, it can be about using an existing monopoly, primarily in the media. There are the highest costs of political parties. It's not the high cost of issuing membership cards, it's how the party shows up, to be present. After all, the public is injured, political parties are not regulated by this law, but is being prevented by this proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32662	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ) The speech is attended by MP Toma Busetic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have made an amendment to this article, and according to us, the most controversial views are the 4th and 6. It is simply not necessary to distinguish between voluntary contributions and donations of natural and legal persons, i.e. no restriction should be made, because it does not matter whether Bogoljub Karic gives certain funds as Bogoljub Karic or whether it is the company Bogoljub Karic. Whether certain funds will be given by Miodrag Kostic or by MK Komerc. On the other hand, these 100 average profits are really minor funds for those who have donors, who are honorable people. Which is a million dinars, because it's that 100 average profit. We've put forward a proposal to make it 200 average profits, although it doesn't need to be limited. On the other hand, this 6th position speaks of the political party's annual income from assets owned by the political party being up to 20% of the total annual income. I've been counting on the framework, if we're looking at public income that's going to have SPS based on budget funds, that's about 30 million, and this restriction would be about about six million dinars in our country. Our inherited property is legally inherited property, because the SPS is a follower of the Union of Communists of Serbia. If you're accusing us of some of the bad things that were at the time of the Communist Union, then we really have the right to inherit this property and I think that one of the key reasons for the adoption of this law is by an urgent procedure to confiscate the SPS property. It should not be put in the same plane here that the SPS has this property from the Alliance of Communists of Serbia and the property New Democracy has through the Alliance of Socialist Youth. Simply, the Union of Communists of Serbia was a voluntary organisation and everyone could join the Union of Communists, and when it comes to the Alliance of Socialist Youth, about the SSRN, these are budget funds and it really should belong to the state. I think our remarks are quite relevant and, of course, all these divisions can only match small parties such as the Democratic Alternative, the SDP, the Normal Serbia Initiative. What do these people need? They have one office, maybe one official, unlike an SPS that has 180 municipal boards. Of course, these funds that go through local self-government will not be sufficient and should not be placed in the same plane as these dwarves, minor political organisations and large and significant organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32664	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32665	I will make another contribution to this debate, to simply prove that the promoter is not a member of any political party and does not know what the problems are. It's very simple to explain. If TV Pink calls on only certain representatives and certain political parties in its impact shows, they are financing the political party. In order for us to show up on Pink, it's probably not a lot of money to help us, since it's such an editorial concept. It's similar to B-92, just the job of showing up there. With RTS not to tell you, Bojana Lekic is worth better in spy circles than individual DOS leaders and you can see that everyone blinks when they come to her on the show. What do I want to point to? It's pointless. We, as political parties, are divided by the fact that there may be someone who would like to help us, wants to follow our ideology and our programme, and those other parties that are taking funds from some donors to allow these donors to increase their capital. That's the big difference. Of course, the Serbian Radical Party has hardly been able to count for three years, because if someone wanted to give it to us, they couldn't give it to us. Why can't she? The financial police immediately arrive, this Karlesha who opens the registers and these other inspectors. It's immediately going into control, where these funds are, those funds, etc. That's the difference. That's why this is all pointless. Yesterday I was saying that we're going to hold on to this, because we've endured worse things, arrests, persecution, bonding to radiators, etc. Take care, the law must be normal and applicable. There's a difference. Anything the political parties receive should be put to the public's attention. If they are legal persons, they are limited by tax regulations as much as they can invest for. Here, let's say attitude 3 - one who sells goods to a political party should give her an account. You have laws, tax laws, you have regulations on the fiscal register, and on TV you said that when a man goes to buy cigarettes he has to get a bill. Why are you putting this in and who are you trying to scare? You can't do us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32666	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janačković. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the MP Živodarka Dacin. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32667	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 which, according to us, should be changed and read: "It is forbidden to receive material and financial assistance from foreign states, foreign legal and natural persons, anonymous donors, institutions and enterprises with the participation of state capital". I personally believe, since we do not have a report from the government, and Minister Djelic is not there (as usual government ministers do not attend when the amendments are discussed here), that this amendment should be accepted, because the meaning is only a more skilled formulation. If you thought that we from the SPS parliamentary group were to delete this member, we weren't, because we've practically never had a great deal of donations, but I think this is an amendment that you should consider, all of you from DOS, because thanks to exactly foreign donations and with their great financial assistance, you've come to power. Perhaps right now these same donors are thinking of helping some other party to get you out of power, and of course this law will make them impossible. In addition to the fact that this is really one member for a member's sake, and what is said in the criminal provisions -- if there is a breach of Article 6 there will be fines of 200,000 to millions of dinars. So what? There are no criteria, and who's to determine if it's 200, 300, 225, 600,000 dinars? If the foreign donor wants to invest, he will pay the fine and again assist any political option. Now I really don't think of any individual. If this really wanted to be done seriously, then we would first define the criteria and those criminal provisions; then, if there were a re-infringing of Article 6, why not, if we wanted to follow the law and the legal provisions, ban the activity of such a party. There's no telling what's going to happen to that money that's never gonna come up with any criminal provisions, I guarantee it now from this pay phone. If Minister Djelic were there, I would tell him -- here you are, all of you who have received donations to come to power with interest should return those funds because you have not fulfilled any promise that you have been brought to power; and the money to go to the Republic of Serbia's budgets, and in this way at least make up for some budget deficit. I think the legislators should work more seriously on all these members, so it should be more written, more correct, more concise. If we really want something to be a legal provision, then we have to define it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32668	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? The word has been given by MP Toma Busetic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has always been against funding political parties abroad, meaning from abroad, by the governments of Western countries, natural and legal persons of Western countries. It's just that we were never ready for it, and they wanted to give us money, because we knew that money wasn't for nothing. Any cash and any other material aid obtained from abroad is obtained for certain interesting reasons. These reasons are, if the political parties are in opposition, to come to power and then do everything the West wants. What he's looking for most often is the sale of our most significant enterprises and factories. In addition, the best example is a very profitable factory in Leskovac "Health"; it was sold for three and a half million euros, and supplies in drugs and medical materials were 10m euros. So, the buyer was only at a given moment, buying that factory, good for seven million euros. Where are the business buildings? Where are the machines? If we're talking about other products, we say they're not competitive, they're not profitable, and the factories of this kind are extremely profitable. So these are the reasons why money is given. Besides, we're witnessing today that the IMF dictates everything. He dictates to this government what the price of electricity will be. Where's that? This minister, Kori Udovicki, as well as other members of the government, is constantly talking about it -- the IMF said we must do so, and what is done is never in the interest of Serbian citizens. It's always against their interest. Today, you will most likely replace Dinkic and it is not disputed and we are for the change of Dinkic, because as I said yesterday, he is a direct enforcer of the IMF. What's the worst solution, there won't be anyone who doesn't have anything to do with the IMF. I am almost certain that it will now be Kori Udovici, an IMF official, who is most likely on the payroll today and who needs to implement this policy of selling out the EPS, the most significant national resource. On the other hand, you most likely wanted to control the political parties that are now favorites of Western countries, which are primarily Labus, Dinkic, and this Vuksanovic. But how can you control them through this law? It's very hard for the money to go to hand. It won't be marked through some giro accounts, but it's known that the billboards of Labus are now glued to all of Belgrade, and that's with Vuksanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32670	Three minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32671	As far as foreign countries and international organisations are concerned, this provision has been practically repeated since 1992. This has been banned before, but as they said online, about $400m has been invested since 1990 to change the electoral will of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. It's a bit degutant that something like this is suggested by someone who's been using funds from abroad. How? Segedin, Conrad, an institution that holds alleged lectures; and finally there is the DOS amendment to this article, which says -- it is possible that people come from abroad and train and prepare them, probably for new forms of psychological-propaganda war, as well as to create a virtual reality to live extremely well and that Serbia is all on the move, in great motion, progress, in order to probably provide another position, I guess someone else is fooled in the next election. But here you forgot about NGOs. We're spinning again about what political parties are. We have NGOs and media that are transmissions through which funds are provided. You remember, in time, B92 and famous computers and cameras from abroad, and visits to Budapest, sharing money, and fighting over money, even Risticevic wanted to get beat up by the Civil League when he was carrying the money to share for Srem, 14,000 marks he must have given to his father, and his father didn't report it, etc. A provision should exist. It's probably supposed to apply. We in this law, practically, don't have an authority that controls the application of this law. This law has criminal provisions, but it doesn't have a supervisory authority. If it is taken into account that the proposal to enter into force within eight days and applied from 1 January 2004, then in December, it will change that last position, so it will apply from 1 January 2005, then it is clear to us that this should be a bit cloudy in the eyes, kobajagi, and in fact to allow it to continue with abuses. Those who pay from abroad don't care who's in power here. They care that he's theirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32672	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bratoljub Janačković. Does he want a word? No, I don't. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32673	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the position of Article 6(1), I suppose the error, that is, was left out in a list of which the organization cannot receive material resources, and I assume that the unions were forgotten by accident. There's no need to explain why. Trade unions should be an organisation that will represent employees' interests, regardless of which political option and which political groups are currently in power. On the other hand, there is a political history of the binding of political unions and certain political parties, and above all the left-wing provinces, or socialist and social democratic parties, but even in the countries where this tradition was the most pronounced, let's say in England, where laborists had direct ties to their June trades, the concept was abandoned somewhere in the early 1990s. By the nature of things, it's natural to add unions in this sense. In the second position, at the end of the sentence, a decimal is placed instead of a point and words are added "or he loses the right to funds from public sources by the end of the term". The reason for this position is also the whole intensity of the DSS in relation to this law, which is the stricter application of criminal provisions. Namely, if the objective is to institutionalise political parties, and we believe that it is, if the aim of reforming the institutional system in this country, and we believe it is, it is necessary to restore citizens' trust in political parties and political groups that will remain on the political stage after the transition period and represent, or represent, the electoral will of the citizens of this country. This can only be done by stricter application of the legal provisions of this law. In this regard, we believe that it is too mild a penalty for someone to lose the right to finance from public funds only for a year, but rather, it should be until the end of the term of a particular assembly called in which the political group is participating. Only in such a way is it possible to restore the confidence of citizens in this country, who are already very disappointed in the basic entities of political organisation in modern political systems, which are political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32674	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdja Popovic. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Does anyone else want a word from authorized participants? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32675	The financing of political parties is about equality between all parties and justice and justice when it comes to financing them. In Article 6, the legislator gave something that has so far been incorporated into the law, but what is most important, is that the SRS wants its amendment to fix this Member of the bill, to supplement it; in Section 2, says: money or the monetary value of other assets acquired contrary to this law and other regulations, the political party is obliged to transfer to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget within 10 days of the date of their entry. Law enforcement begins on 1 January 2004, not to take into account the real existence of the possibility that, before 1 January, the majority will change this member of the law in the Assembly of Amendment intervention. What are we going to do, gentlemen, with these funds that have been paid to certain political parties so far, what about the funds that arrived in huge quantities during 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, where you no longer have as much inflow of funds from abroad as you yourself have been able to recalibrate by 1 January 2004. So, by 1 January 2004, as much as anyone takes. In such a situation are opposition political parties and when this law is implemented, the opposition party will not be able to participate financially in the election campaign. They will not technically be able to send a pre-election campaign, not counting what you are preparing in the meantime for the adoption of laws on political parties, political parties, so we do not know what is there, and those who have taken the money, who will take and who take it, only when the law comes into force, so when such funds are paid by foreign states or foreigners, after 10 days they are obliged to return to the budget themselves. Who can believe you, who can normally believe, in a multi-party that began long ago in Serbia, that the ruling coalition or, more specifically, a party within the DOS will respect these rules. How are these new Democrats who woke up as liberals, how are they going to respect that? They will not respect, but aside from not respecting it, but they will create a huge advantage over opposition parties, and especially if it is known that there is a monopoly over the means of information, and a monopoly on finance; so what is a 100-metre race, when you gentlemen have 60 meters of advantage, so what are the chances of the opposition even taking part in the elections, and especially that it is an equal race.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32676	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32677	We have proposed a new text of Article 6. In relation to the proposal in paragraph 1, the only difference is that we have introduced these NGOs, though, they have abandoned us, is no longer interesting and we are looking for a new attitude 2 that does not mean retroactiveness. Right away, let's agree, there is no legal interference, no constitutional interference to adopt this amendment, we don't force you to violate the Constitution, it's very precise -- money or the monetary value of other assets that, until the day of the entry into force of this law, acquired the opposite position 1 (but there is a ban), the political party is obliged to transfer to the account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. If we listen to what the Americans have announced, the State Department, it's 400 million dollars since 1990. In 2000 alone, it's $80 million. Dosmania, sit down and agree on how much to get rid of the bag and to pay that money into the Republic of Serbia's budget. In this way we level down that ban from the first position is objective and valid for everything from the moment this law enters into force. We have submitted an amendment to Article 25. We are not in favour of this law starting to apply on 1 January 2004, but on the eighth day of its publication. So, hurry on Friday to vote this out, in eight days' time be equal, objective, patriot, fair, return to the Republic of Serbia's budget all that you have acquired on the basis of the ban. This ban has been in continuance since 1990. This isn't the first time we've talked about that ban today, you know, it's been banned before. Take that money back, deal with these amounts, maybe it's not 400, maybe more. They said themselves -- only 80 million were spent in September 2000; to remind you, that is the report where they said they were extremely dissatisfied with DOS coalition because there are 17-18 leaders and none of the parties were profiled as a political party, that there was no organisational structure and that they had to work with political leaders, "pejoi 206" came, I don't know how it was, etc. Apply the law as you imagined, give us an idea, we've only done a little bit of processing that idea in order to be in the interest of citizens and political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32678	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment was withdrawn from the procedure by MP Bratoljub Janackovic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32679	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law on the financing of political parties is a law of great importance and it is certain that it should have been adopted earlier. This Article 8 (here we have intervened with the amendment) defines what can be considered the cost of the election campaign, which lists posters, ads, broadcasts on radio, television and other media, advertising videos, publications and others with these related activities in the period from the day of the call to the day of the elections. This member, like many other members of this law, shows that the law has been written by a person who absolutely has nothing to do with political activities, with the work of political parties, has never done the work of election campaigns, and has overlooked one very significant activity during the pre-election campaign, which requires significant material resources, at least for us who have no resources in abundance, which we are not funded by the West, by some intelligence services, NGOs. These are promotional gatherings, or mittins. According to this, they can be led to this last point - others with these related activities; however, if it is precisely stated that under these campaign costs are also considered to be the issue of campaigning, advertising, radio television, and advertising videos, publications, we believe that the issue of the organisation's costs, i.e. the organisation of promotional meetings, because the fixed costs, i.e. the minimum costs of organising a promotional set, a large rally in Belgrade, amounted to over 60,000 dinars or over 1,000 euros if it is closer to you and if you understand that. Here, first of all, I mean the opposition parties that are in these conditions today, so to speak, condemned to carry out their pre-election campaigns by public appearances, or by organising promotional gatherings, rallying. If one opposition party in Serbia organises 25 or 30 pre-election rallys, and that is not an average of 60,000 dinars, or 1,000 euros, such as in Belgrade, it should be some amount of 500 euros, and that is 30,000 euros for this activity alone, or close to 22,000 dinars just for renting stage, sounding and for those small technical things that are necessary to hire to maintain the rally. (President: three minutes. ) By this law, you can put a political party, a party involved in the elections, not to recognise these expenses in the cost of an election campaign.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32680	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32681	In addition to what Mr Ljubojevic pointed out on one particular case that there are other costs of funding the election campaign and specifically pointed out what it looks like in Belgrade, I must say that there is this lack of this law here, because, in practice, Article 8 applies only to political parties. We will have the situation, because the existing electoral law allows candidates, i.e. the applicant of the electoral list, in addition to the parties, and even political organisations, perhaps coalitions, to have the right to do so by groups of citizens. We didn't limit the group of citizens to anything. We had a situation with twice-failing presidential elections, where several of these groups of citizens had candidate-proposal status, and one group of citizens spent as much, probably as all the other political parties and all the other promoters. Practically, this law does not cover them. Of course, they're not a political party, they're an interesting group, and that's a lack. Practically, this is how you restrict political parties, and you allow groups of citizens to behave freely. By some logic, this will not be the matter of a new electoral law. This way only confirms that our initial position from the principle debate, however, is quite dissociated, that this is a law against the financing of political parties, that this is a law that needs to be denied material, financial resources and other predispositions necessary for the free political functioning of a political party. So we're asking that these promotional meetings be considered as part of this article. This is particularly interesting for opposition political breaks, which are practically forbidden to announce their promotional gatherings via electronic media. That's the big difference. Liberals, and if we had the strength to organize a rally, it would be enough for them to just file a statement and all the media would immediately announce, first as an attraction -- Liberals making a rally, secondly, which they must, because there, Minister Mihajlović would immediately arrest, hijack jeeps. And we, even if we pay, can't secure the publication, even if it's the cyron -- in so many hours and so many hours, there'll be a promotional gathering on that square and on that square. That's the difference, the huge difference, that one party with 33,000 members throws aside, it's said, what the GSS would say, and one minor, who has seized funds, kidnappings, connected, can count as a parasite at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32682	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32683	On this amendment, I'd just like to add that some people are really acting like Alice in a wonderland. I don't want to comment on the story and blame it all the time. I'm very correct in the assessment, and that's whether, when we talk about finance, to mention Baghdad, should we mention checks, should we mention formations for the defence of Iraq? I think that's the balance that's talking about funding from abroad. Therefore, there is something that is the principle of sister foundations and that is something that is governed by international agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32684	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? (Zoran Krasic: Replica. () What was the basis for the replica? Baghdad is the basis for replication? You should get in touch with you and Baghdad. I see no reason to defend a political party or country abroad here. National MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Jelena Maslovara - Ralevic submitted the 8th amendment together. Are any of the applicants answering for a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32685	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 10 is about the same objection that applied to Article 4. So, not about the number of seats won, but about the number of votes won. I repeat, this is the way political groups in this country are nurtured, which exceeds the distinction between a proportional and a majority electoral system. Of course, it will not in itself solve the care of political parties, regardless of the nature of the electoral system in which their mutual competence is carried out. The most important moment in all this, especially for a country in transition and especially for countries that are just building political institutions, is the more frequent election cycles. So, in addition to dobrozakons, I hope that similar to this law will be the law on political parties, the bill on the electoral system and the Law on the National Assembly or on the People's Parliament, as it is called in the countries of the European Union, which are necessary, along with this law, which together make up an institutional environment in which political groups operate. Therefore, there is also a need for more frequent election cycles in the next ten years, in order for Serbia to be profiled in terms of the survival of several political parties, which will represent all options, from the right hand, across the centre, towards the left, and thus gain a stable political climate within the country itself, thus achieving a kind of education towards Serbian citizens, which will thus be directed towards which political groups should be targeted if they want to engage in a particular appropriate way in political struggle.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32686	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32687	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, representative of the SRS parliamentary group Mr. Zoran Krasic was right when he said that this bill was written by someone who is not in the political party, does not know political work and does not know all these flows of political struggle, both in the pre-election campaign and in regular action. Amendment of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group to Article 10. The bill sets out to separate the funds given to political parties, namely applicants of the declared electoral lists on the one hand, and candidates, because this is the same type of cost, but different needs for the allocation of money. You, in this bill, Mr. Minister, have disregarded the possibility in this assembly, given that the legal regulation currently in force, which provides for a proportionate electoral list for the republican MPs in the Republic Assembly, as well as for the council members of the municipality. You are already considering applying the mixed system to select MPs in the Republic Assembly in the future. What will you do where MPs are elected in the majority system? That MP is not a candidate. Basically a creature, but you've predicted it here as one candidate on the election list. You give money for the election list, and for the candidate where you taxfully listed in the draft law on in-house organs, candidate for president of the Republic, candidate for mayor, candidate for president of the municipality. Where is your candidate in the future majority system for selecting MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or for a councilman in the local self-government units? On the other hand, in the position of the 2nd Amendment of the Serbian Radical Party Parliamentary Group, it is envisaged that 50% of the advances are allocated to candidates for the election of the President of the Republic and MPs, given this possible majority system or mixed system, and that for MPs in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the mayor, the president of the municipality and the council, if it is a majority system, the remaining 50% after the election is assigned to the candidate, given that in this majority system, regardless of what the law is proposed, 20% is divided into 10 days from the candidate list. Later he gets only one candidate 80% of the money, in your bill, because that's where you identified the candidate's proposal. The candidate is a candidate for the president of the municipality, the President of the Republic, the mayor. You should be aware that this is a disproportionate and unfair division of money, and bear in mind that when you came to power, you took an advance from the United States of America the amount of 48 million and 230 thousand German marks. Later you took more, but it was about 60% of the need for an election campaign, regardless of whether it was the election of the president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, where Vojislav Kostunica was the candidate, or the list of candidates for the then federal assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32688	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32689	This error in Article 10 is caused by the fact that the author of this law is obviously not from political parties, a man who does not know what the political party is. The basic objection we wish to correct in Article 10 is due to the lack in Article 2(2), because there are no more in-house bodies. At the very least, what you have suggested in Article 10(1) is acceptable and we have confirmed it in our version. When it comes to selecting those in-house bodies of yours, the president of the Republic, the mayor and the president of the municipality, then divide this way 20%, and then the rest after the election, not only is it unfair, but it's illogical, it's unbulful. We propose that 50% of these funds be allocated to all the candidates announced, and after the elections have been made and depending on the outcome of the election to the one who won the term of office of the president, the mayor, the president of the municipality pays the rest. If it remained 20 to 80, Milan Milanovic would again run for president of the Republic in front of a group of citizens, taking 30-40 average salaries, such as the 1990s, and as other candidates for the president who propose groups of citizens. It is likely that your position 3 is so well-conceived to prevent this abuse, but it exists in a group of citizens, there is no political party. That's why we're suggesting that item 3 be deleted, because it doesn't mean anything. The funds from public sources intended for the election campaign, whether for MPs or president of the Republic, are funds supported by the political party, and the law treats political parties. It is impossible for the party to spend less on the campaign than it would have been from the budget. That's impossible. You have also succeeded in the impossible situation to narrow down to the situation that it is possible to confiscate funds. You practically force all of us during election campaigns, that if our candidate for President Tomislav Nikolic leaves Belgrade for a rally, all of us from election headquarters go to a gas station, pour fuel and look for bills on the SRS burden, so that we can justify this amount that you have prescribed, which is a really modest amount, and thus prove to you that we have given more for the campaign than we would have done by the results of the election and by the very fact that we are participants in the elections. (President: three minutes. ) These suggestions, the results of a bright mind, you withdraw because this means nothing. This is ridiculous, inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32690	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32691	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected identification cards, which Natasa Micic would say identification cards, Mrs Comic, do not tell me if the board is in charge of this law and the government accepts the amendment after you have accelerated to come out. But since Mr Djelic has arrived, he is likely to come forward on this and all the amendments to the SRS. As for Article 11, we ask that paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 be deleted. The position of the SRS from the beginning is clear. Mr Krasic talked a lot about both the amendments and the principle debate. We are against limiting any amount, especially when it comes to this Article 11, which says that the amount of funds from private sources declared by the applicant of the electoral list, i.e. the candidate's proposal to collect the costs of the election campaign must not exceed 20% of the funds of Article 9 of this Act. It is in itself controversial that article 9 and the way the funds will be allocated to political parties in relation to the number of parliamentary mandates won and 0.1% of the total budget. First of all, it is imaginary for the simple reason that you are asking for the law to be applied from 1 January 2004. You have no intention, although you do not have any support in the congregation at all, to call the elections until then. This law is a farce. It will be reportedly applied from January 1st, and, as Mr Krasic said, you may still be looking for a stay, because that time takes you to lead criminals in the country that are your direct financials, such as Miodrag Kostic Kolet, Dragoljub Markovic, called The Feeding Product, Stanko Subotic Canet - frog and others, until that time from illegally acquired profits through all the criminal activities you provide, via sugar, through tobacco and long affairs, you are also funded by your political activities. First of all, I mean the Democratic Party. Then you will limit political parties who otherwise cannot raise from private sources the funds indicated here to make that amount 20% of the amount prescribed in Article 9. It is pointless in this way that Bozidar Djelic proposes this law to us, especially because he is not interested in this debate at all, he is busy with other problems of his own, and that the big problems that plague him, which we will discuss a little more this afternoon during tomorrow. It is pointless not to accept any amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, which is the strongest opposition party, since the fall of communism in parliamentary life, and it is pointless... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... to discuss in such a way the means, which, in relation to the number of MPs, should be given to a political party, when we have a number of imaginary political parties on paper alone; and make sure that the funds that we receive under this law will be at least triple as much as possible, because we will be three times as much in the future of the Serbian Parliament, and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32692	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32693	Since we are spinning around the political party's concept and definition, the promoters could probably finally listen and understand what the political party is, not only in Serbia, but by definition. It is an independent political organisation of voluntary citizens of the Republic of Serbia established and organised to achieve group political interests on the basis of democratic principles and values of the formation and expression of the political will of citizens, participation in the elections for authorities of territorial autonomy units and local self-government. This confirms by constantly participating in the elections and crossing the censorship prescribed by law. All that doesn't fit in is the GG, or UG, association of citizens. He's got some interests, but they're not political, and they're not a political party. According to the constitutional principle that regulates freedom of political organisation and operation, the only obligation of the political party is to make its revenues available to the public. There may be some restrictions on funding, but it is a matter of tax policy directed towards an individual who directs his resources towards a party and a tax policy directed towards a legal person who directs funds towards a political party. There's no such thing as anything outside. That's why we're asking for these 2rd and 4th points to be deleted, because they're absolutely unconstitutional. They are contrary to the basic principle that is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, including these Constitutional Charters of yours, and you will have to install it in this document that you are building, no matter what you call it, which is likely to resemble some constitutional act of the future state-of-the-art community, who knows what it will be called and what it will be. Therefore, these positions 2, 3 and 4 are inapplicable, legally impossible. How can you limit a man to have his means, to pay? You can tax him with tax policy, tax him, if he's paid more than you think he should. You charge him three times the extra tax on that basis, which he overpaid, but don't limit it. In this way you do not achieve the equality of political parties, but you encourage some to do more lucidly abuse, and that will be these in power, and abuse is primarily through the media. The biggest cost of parties is a media performance. We're not on the media, we're off-limits. What are you controlling us for?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32694	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to Article 11 was submitted by MP Djura Lazic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32695	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11. With this amendment, we suggest that in point 2. 20% be replaced by 80%. We believe that it is too much to limit the amount of funds from private sources that political parties can engage to run an election campaign. I believe that this member, as well as many others, is extremely restrictive when it comes to the financing of political parties and this restriction is extremely negatively reflected and will affect opposition parties. I can fully agree with your proposal to prohibit the financing of foreign parties and it is good that you have installed it in this law, although that provision has existed before. I also know why you installed it, because you don't need donations from abroad anymore because you have a position of government and all the privileges that this entails behind you and the possibility of your field activity, but there is danger and intent of the IMF and other foreign factors that want to focus on funding and forcing G17 plus, Miroljub Labus, Dinkic and others. We think it's okay to apply this law on the ban on funding on the side, because anyone who finances, he's looking for a favor. I believe that the option led by Labus is extremely harmful to Serbia and the Serbian people, above all, and therefore it is necessary to disable the financing of such an option from abroad, because I think it is an extremely anti-Serbian option. If I understand that, I cannot understand this provision in Article 11 where it is restricted, i.e. it makes it impossible for private persons, i.e. individuals to invest in the financing of political parties. It's every man's right to stand out for the party he belongs to or who he likes. Don't deny it to people. It generates income, pays taxes on that income and has the right to pay out of those funds to customers whose sympathies it is or whose member it is. I don't think it's a good idea to keep this restriction, so I suggest that this amendment be accepted to make it impossible to limit the financing of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32696	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32697	There's no need to explain myself, because I'm hardly going to succeed when someone doesn't want to or can't see, but I'd just like to warn the promoter of one thing, that this is inadmissible. If you're going to apply this to what you wrote, then you need to shut down all state and local media. Why turn off the media? For one reason, if you consider what the Media Center published, what was the election campaign in December 2000, intensity, frequency, number of occurrences, duration of the show, in which context any party and which individual appeared, etc., you will get the data that the opposition was 1% and DOS parties 99%. You'll get that information. You need to know that we didn't have a supervisory board back then, he wasn't allowed to work in 2002, two rounds of presidential elections, a board of directors, one of the parallel bodies in charge of the media, which should in a strict word point to all abuses of the electoral law regarding the equality of participants in the elections and those media that violated the obligation of objective, timely and true information on the activities of political candidates. If you take that into account and look at it, then you will see that the provisions on some alleged material and financial equality of political parties are, in fact, punishment for the opposition parties for the second time. It's gonna seem a little weird to someone. You're suggesting something and you're asking that those who have it get even more. It may seem that way, but they already have everything. They have more money and no problem at all. You'll have to do the same. Some others before you were forced. The teranals, the turrets, the ossions, the arrests, the overnight kidnapping of mandates, the removal of immunity, what they didn't do. Alcatel survived, the city of Belgrade will survive. Every song has a beginning and an end. Don't put this in this law. It's not gonna be good, because you can't shut down the opposition, and with this alleged one that you're making up some imaginary fights, unnecessary arguments within one family, you're just gonna provoke the citizens to erase you all in the package. You're closer to it than anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32698	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to Article 12 was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32699	The amendment to Article 12, which I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, has a narrow link to Article 11 which was submitted by the most charming MP in the National Assembly, Natasa Jovanovic, and, of course, the most prominent MP in all as far as the lady is concerned. Of course, that doesn't apply to the ladies, or whatever you say - the papers with the mustache. So the article talks about the election campaign, about funding and says campaign costs must go to a special account. The SRS parliamentary group does not consider it necessary to open a special account, as every serious political party, such as the SRS, which has more than 300,000 members, has practically its own account and has no need to open a special account. Here, from this article, we can also see the proposal's ultimate intention. Namely, the promoter wants to keep track of those natural and legal persons who will later be able to prosecute various commissions, and Minister Djelic should take more care of shoes, shoes and noises, and that he has abolished the possibility that MPs, or members of the Serbian Radical Party, are buying shoes, noises and tails, because this is the main source of funds, i.e. the basic means for the Serbian Radical Party's election campaign. We don't mind at all that you're going to intimidate potential donors with political parties, because we have resources from a huge number of members who are regularly paying membership fees. You should be more concerned, and this article shows this in particular, about those small political parties, foreigners, who have, say, the Somboro Civil Union of three members, and then some of them there, the League of Vojvodina, autonomists of five-six members, and all together with the Democratic Party of Serbia, can stand in one larger bus of 55 seats. You take care of them, and therefore we believe that this member should be deleted from this law, because there is an account that can be paid and we believe that this particular account would actually be counterproductive and a way for the lustration of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32700	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32701	Article 12. The bill is not good, because it directly affects the presidents of municipalities and executive committees who have to make quorum here, and here's why. The bill promoter, or one who wrote this, really doesn't know this matter. The election day to election day should run between 45 days and 90 days, and those in item 1 say a sub-account must be opened when the list is declared, which is announced 15 days before election day, when the election campaign has already been two-thirds of the time. The past campaign, remember. The campaign starts when elections are held and the day of elections is up to 90 days, 45 days. The list is announced 15 days before the election. What do we do from the day of the call to 15 days before the election? As if there was no election campaign, that's how these experts interpret it. A man must know when he's doing something. The paper can't take it all, it just can't. It will tear these up in the Belgrade City Assembly. Believe me, they won't be able to handle it. How to justify billboards, large funds, and for 15 days the account was a miserable asset, and they ran a 90-day campaign and on Pink, so now we're all going to count on minutes, so how much it costs a few minutes and say that you paid in some way, because it has a provision that they're obliged to give you confirmation that they did the services and that's help. It doesn't mean anything. Get into the law, and then get baptized all in a row, and this law doesn't have a supervisory authority, there's no one to check. Bogdanovic won't check out the Finance Committee. He's gone. Write people something that can fit into a bright mind. Don't write any nebuloses. It doesn't mean anything. To scare someone? You won't. The bear's not afraid of the stick, remember. It remains as evidence of you, as every spoken word speaks more of him who has spoken than of him whom it is guided. Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: The only smart thing you've said since I've known you. I'm so glad. I'm glad we agreed at least for something. That means she'll be fine. Change something. It's normal for you to haunt us, that's normal. We didn't expect you to admire us for being in opposition, but keep at least making sure that there's a minimum, that there's some dignity, because it's dangerous when it falls below a line, and you've long fallen below that line. Come back a little bit in front of that line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32702	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Does he want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32703	Article 13 of this Act is related to Article 12. You just heard our amendment. There are many similarities with what Mr Krasic was talking about in article 12. Namely, it says here that the applicant of the declared election list, i.e. the candidate's proposal, appoints two persons who are responsible for the legal collection and dedicated spending of funds to finance the election campaign and to submit the report. We believe that the elections are a regular form of political action and that this is not an emergency; parties exist because they would participate in the elections and the party has been preparing for some of the next elections since the day of the election, and everything it does is aimed at transferring messages to voters, the political party's programme, what it will do when it wins voter confidence and when it exercises power. To that end, money, advertising, propaganda material is collected, calculated by what and when purchased, these funds are carefully spent, and the parties own their accounts available to each type of control. It is unnecessary to make some new accounts only for this purpose, only for the collection of funds to be used during the election. If these new accounts are unnecessary, as we believe they are, it is also unnecessary to appoint two persons who will in the name of the party control and raise those funds. This law was written by an accountant, this law was not written by someone who really understood how it works and how a political party works. This blonde is really distracting me, all the time. Indeed, he did so in order to exercise control that is not necessary, because there is already a way to control the accounts of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32704	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32705	It's very simple and simple: election activities, it's something regular, which every political party does, should be, should be, and I don't count on what's in Alice's wonder country. It's the regular activity of every political party. As soon as the elections are discussed, all the party does is aim at this electoral activity in the narrow sense of the word. Now, no elections are scheduled, representatives of almost all parties, wherever there is room in the media to host and make statements, articles in the newspaper about them are published, giving their messages; well, all these messages are sent to voters. As soon as the election is held, the account held by the party is the account on which it is registered and through that account goes everything intended for the elections. You haven't caught a group of citizens here, I wouldn't be surprised if such a law were passed we had the worst group of citizens to propose in the next election, because they weren't covered by the law. Now you enter some provisions -- two persons, a sub-account with a certified signature, that all parties have. Since the new year, each party has had to change the jury's account to the current account and get a PIB number, so municipal committees have opened sub-accounts to pay off funds belonging to them under the parliamentary mandates. It's already there. So that's what the other regulations bound us to. General rules on material finance business are above these rules. In particular, it is impossible for political parties to find accounting and bookkeeping provisions in the law on the financing of political parties, not in the Accounting Act, in the provisions of the Tax Act, etc. It's impossible. Then why are you bringing it in? What's the point? What's the other purpose besides to send a message and to limit something if possible, to scare, to scare, to move. You don't need that. This law may, at the top of its head, have to have ten members and regulate what the state in the budget pays to political parties and in principle resolve the ways in which the party can provide funding based on membership fees, contributions, etc. And nothing else. Everything over it is pointless and doesn't solve the problem. He's just making some people go into even more abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32706	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14 of this bill, by proposing that Article 14 of Article 1 should be amended as follows: "The applicant of the declared electoral list, or the applicant, is obliged to draw up a complete report on the origin, height and structure of the collected and spent funds for the election campaign, within 10 days of the election day." In point 1 of the proposal, the applicant suggested: "The applicant of the declared electoral list, or the applicant, is obliged to submit, within 10 days of the election day, a complete report on the origin, height and structure of the funds collected and spent for the election campaign, to the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in charge of finance (hereinafter referred to as the Financial Committee). "The SRS considers that the control and verification of the content and inflows and outflows of funds and the means of spending of these funds can be controlled in a comprehensive and appropriate manner through the current account by the competent authorities, i.e. at the competent service of payment services. This, that these funds must now be shown and written down a special and special report to this finance committee and the finance minister, is absolutely unnecessary. Anything collected should be recorded in the current account, and from the current account the political party shall remove and spend funds according to its needs and according to its plan and programme. We also suggested that attitudes 3 and 4 be deleted, because they absolutely make no sense, because nothing is achieved with them. What's going on here? This is where the data check is to be carried out, it will be done by authorised authorities, and in this case the authority would be transferred to the Ministry of Finance and to the Finance Committee. We think it's illogical and that in practice it won't have any results. The control will be carried out and should be carried out exclusively in the current account and no other bodies are required, and in particular the Finance Committee should not be involved in these affairs and shall be provided with specific reports within 10 days of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32708	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32709	This amendment makes one intervention in paragraph 1, because we really don't see why the Finance Committee would have any jurisdiction when it comes to funding political parties. We really can't see. He can't even be a supervisory authority, it's a working body, it's a permissive body to get the documents to the National Assembly, with the opinion of a group of MPs who should be experts on the specific area and nothing more. Everything beyond that is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, nor with the Constitution, nor with the law. But it's not only on the board that this member is at risk. We support this so that the contents of that report are prescribed by the minister, but here you've got something wrong with the deadlines. How can a political party deliver a full report on election activities and spent funds within 10 days of the election day, when they may not know the results of the election and do not know what they will give from public revenues, and based on what is coming from the budget, what will be paid, how? Of course, they don't care because they don't care about the law. It's just, even chronologically, it can't fit in, not at all. The other thing is, it doesn't take that much fear, because all those who are beneficial in some party end up very quickly. We had one, he's on vacation now, but here in this room, of course, he went to DOS, he couldn't stay long. And in other parties it's like that, some of them are torn up for that money, and no one's conducted a criminal procedure, no one. Why would the state have any particular interest in that now? The man came to DOS, he drives a "pezo", he doesn't care, he enjoys, even in Republika Srpska he hooked up with something there, he took something from politicians. It's more a matter for the criminal police than for the Finance Committee. You know, make it a little bit, but make it smart, don't make it so pointless. This is really pointless to say here, especially the Finance Committee, because what does the Finance Committee have to do with election activities and the financing of political parties? Why would we pass it on to a financial committee? So his president here serves the quorum, he enters 84, and the persona, president of the Executive Board of the City's largest city in Serbia is just for the sake of the quorum. How can he control something? The president of a working body, a group that receives a document on behalf of the Assembly and says, "Yes, yes, yes, we give an opinion, please, and then controls both his board and there some of which the party would control, a party that has 33,000 members or more, don't bring mercy into the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32710	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Dragan Todorovic. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to delete Section 1 in Article 15, and it says, "The political party has an account, and the organisational forms of the political party may have sub-accounts to which funds are available under this law." If the first position in this article were deleted, Article 2 would remain: "The status of the political party or the special decision made under the statutes regulates the mutual relations between the organisational forms of the political party with regard to the delivery of funds". In this way, they would allow parties to decide their own organisation. To the municipal board, how much funds they will give, etc., it is the internal matter of each party. This is how it turns out that Minister Djelic will decide on internal financial policy in all parties, and therefore we could freely propose him to be the financial director of all parties in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32712	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32713	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of law that is before us is disputed for several reasons, and I, besides those already listed by my predecessors in the SRS, will list a few more reasons that I cannot personally accept. First, why did this bill not enter the procedure before, but waited two and a half years for a text like this or similar to that to enter the congregation procedure? Does this mean that foreign sources of funding financed by DOS parties so far are exhausted or should legalise what has been done in the previous two and a half years, which is what is done, and this is overpouring budget funds to DOS parties. I have already mentioned an example of Nebojsa Covic transferring budget funds to some sports clubs. The same way is done with the DOS political parties. The second thing is why this law is not retroactive as some other law. You here forbid the financing of foreign-source parties, and you used these funds so abundantly and thanks to them you came to power. Now you forbid it. Thirdly, why budget allocations are being made this way, why you share 30% of the parties who have MPs in the Assembly, why you didn't come up with this formula a little differently, and say that you share 30% with voters. You entered here as a single list, and now there are 20 of you, and now you're going to divide some 120 million dinars, how much is that for this year, equal to all the parties that have MPs here. Why do you divide it into 25 parties, how many are now participating here, not four or five, how many have entered this parliament, the moment the elections were held? As for Article 16, it refers to political parties, i.e. to the conduct of political party accounting and financial control. This member is not disputed in the first four positions, and it has been practiced and done in political parties so far, so all were led by accounting, there was also financial control, but what is controversial is attitude 5 and attitude 6, although I prefer this position 5. This is the role of the Serbian Assembly's Finance Committee in the whole business, namely, the obligation of political parties to submit the final account to the Finance Committee. I ask you, what is the meaning of this or who is competent in the Finance Committee, which are experts in the Finance Committee who will control the final account and what if the Finance Committee does not adopt that final account, what are the consequences? I think this is pointless, the Committee has its responsibilities that follow him by law and should not interfere with these matters. So there is a competent service, a competent authority, the National Bank of Serbia that controls the final account and receives the final accounts and why the Committee would be involved in all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32714	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32715	With this amendment, we ask that paragraphs 5 and 6 be deleted. First, the Finance Committee has nothing to ask for in the law on the financing of political parties. Believe me, this thing with these 6,000 dinar amounts, etc., it's about three times to fill the tank, to be present at three rallys -- one in Subotica, the other in Nis and the third in Bor. That's the amount, each of us spends at least a few times as much during a simple election campaign. That's clear. Why should I now book my fuel consumption to help strangers? It's pointless. It's especially pointless what you're asking for the final bill to go to the audit. It is known which companies are going to audit, which legal persons are subject to statutory audit, audits of audit houses. It doesn't matter to the parties at all, because they don't ask for a credit rating, and it's pointless. And so far, the parties have submitted the final bill. So far, the parties have had authorised persons responsible for the legality of the material-financial business. So far, all parties have made their full business available to the public. We were at press conferences to announce what our incomes and expenditures were during the election campaigns. At the end of each year, party authorities decide on total revenues and expenditure. Reports on the party's material and financial operations are submitted at each party congress. All of this is available to the public, to the inspection bodies and absolutely no problem exists. The obligation to publish a report like this in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" means nothing but an additional cost. You don't get any quality and it's not proof of the political party's work. The public work of the political party is the right and duty of the political party, but it is also the responsibility of the authorities to provide the public with the work of the political party. There's media, like, something that comes first. Open the media, as you say you want to be transparent, give us space to prove to the citizens how "primitively simple". Don't defend us, it's not nice, we're not defending you. They know, but let's convince them even better, and let's tell them what kind of people you are, that they may see a little bit, so that as long as it's time, they may hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32716	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, are the mid-term MPs Vitomir Plužarevic and Jovan Todorovic. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is in principle against this and this is how a law on political parties is laid. The working body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot be a law enforcement body, and we believe that this Article 18 should be deleted for this and other reasons. He's got a bright one. We've already presented everything to you with our amendments. This law doesn't oblige anyone, since it's so well-conceived, it doesn't know who it applies to. I mean, how are you going to split the funds from this bill to these little van parties? What will be the principles and methods? What do you say to the citizens by this law and all the others you've adopted, when TV transmissions are not allowed, so that the citizens are informed? What does that mean to you - the law? And today, through the acrobatic systems of managing this assembly, you have denied the Serbian radicals to speak in principle of this law. You probably just come up with methods and ways to speed up the work of this Parliament, and you start working mostly at 11 o'clock, thus extending the work to 20, and the citizens don't know it. You know for a fact that all these laws will not come to life. This law limits the acquisition and availability of funds that the political party needs to have. Your conscience is upset. That's evident from all your statements and comments you're putting on the air. How to justify all of your donors who funded you and who are funding you today: the CIA, the Monetary Fund, the Sorosfondation, various NGOs, the American Senate and who knows who else of these white world powers, and in your own country you designed sugar, oil, tobacco and everything you derived from the enormous material benefits. It's your main problem today, how to get rid of all the bosses that deal with this business, and the sword you stepped forward. Now you ride yourself on that sword. If the political party cooperates with you, as is the case today, with all the purchased MPs and political parties who support you, you also demonstrated yesterday, waiting four hours to collect the quorum, i.e. you also upset the Belgrade airport. Those little parties should just listen to you and everything will be fine. They're the most important thing to you right now. They also accept this law. There is no legal order for you, but a stronger comment in the number of MPs. Is that what you're all up for? Yes, but you're doing things differently now! It's for every law that he represents honor and only honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32718	People's MP, I give you a warning for breaking the Rules of Procedure because you do not stick to the subject and content of the amendment, and it is time for your explanation. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been given by MP Jovan Todorovic, as the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32719	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask all MPs, especially those who belong to the majority, to listen to the reasons why I suggested on behalf of the SPS that I delete Article 18 from this law. I'm very sorry that Mr. Djelic is not here, but I would ask Mrs. Drecun to listen to me, because I don't think it's more natural than this member erases in a text like this. See what is said in paragraph 1: "If there are irregularities in the collection, use or recording of funds within the meaning of this law, the chairman of the Finance Committee is obliged to submit a report to the competent authorities". So, the chairman of the Finance Committee is obliged to determine that there are irregularities, which is a nonsensical to me. Let's just translate to today's situation. Mr. Bogdanovic is, as far as I know, an engineer or a master of some technical sciences. How can he determine irregularities and based on what? On the basis of which he allegedly has found irregularities, he submits a report to the competent state authority, and when the competent state authority adopts a solution that someone has violated the law and committed an infringement, then the Finance Committee decides to deny the political party funds from public sources in the next elections. It's just that everything in this article is unsustainable. First, the president cannot, he must have a competent inspection, a competent state authority to determine irregularities, and only then can it be discussed by a competent assembly body. Secondly, the Finance Committee is not a competent authority at all, nor can it be under any law, nor is it under this law. First, it is so constructed that most of it represents the parliamentary majority of the ruling set. We know what our composition of the financial committee is and will be in the future, most MPs will be from ruling coalitions or parties in power. Therefore, it may be an opportunity for rematchism, to deal with its political rivals. I believe that, since I have not been able to suggest something that would fix this member, most naturally, that such a member, who is otherwise inadmissible, should be removed from the Bill of this Law. I simply can't understand and I'm surprised that Mr Djelic allowed such a text to be found in the bill, because nothing makes sense in it. Neither bet 1, nor bet 2, and in particular bet 3. How can the President of the Committee determine irregularities? With what knowledge, what degree of expertise, and who will he say that to? We may suspect that a political party has done so and so, we submit appropriate reports to the competent authorities, when the judicial decisions of those competent authorities occur, then the Finance Committee is considering something that is not in its jurisdiction. (President: three minutes. It's been three minutes. No one's listening here. The finance minister proposes such a law, does not attend the assembly session or attends the majority. If he had attended, it would have probably been more of the amendments he proposed here, because they're logical and because they're correcting this law. No one here in this congregation listens to us now, but please remember article 18 and vote to delete it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32720	People's MP, your statement in that section is incorrect that no one listens. I listen very carefully. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32721	We have proposed to delete this member and this is primarily about the Committee on Finance, because we believe he has nothing to do with the affairs of financing political parties. There are other bodies that control the material-financial business of all legal entities, including political parties. It is the tax authorities and other inspection bodies. They are authorised to control, if they establish an irregularity, apply, and depending on whether it is an offence, a commercial offence, and even if it is a criminal offence, they address the relevant state authority and it is being resolved there. This is how it is given to the Finance Committee to be a quasi-supervisory and pseudo-state authority is neither appropriate nor legally possible. I don't know what recommendation to interpret. It is not the congregation committee that is said anywhere, but the appropriate authority or special authority or competent authority. No international document suggests so directly where the body should be, at what level of government, as far away from the president, from parliament, from the executive or executive authority. That is why it is good to accept this amendment, simply to delete this article, because this provision, which is set out in Article 2, says - if the political party is fined by law, it loses the right to funds from public sources. I, on the case referred to in Article 5(2), have proved to be incapacitated. You see, if the director of a legal person who helped a political party doesn't inform his assembly and board, you punish the political party because the director of the donor company was wrong. For the offence you punish the party and, under Article 18(2), you deny it what it belongs to. How is that possible? Where is that possible? How is 17 sanctions possible for one act? Especially for a third-party act that has nothing to do with a political party. This is gonna hit your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32722	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Jelena Maslovar-Ralevic. In the name of the applicants, the word has been given by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32723	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of MPs of the Serbian Unity Party submitted an amendment to Article 18, in the following content - that Article 18, paragraph 1, changes and reads: "If the authority of the administration in charge of the control of material finance operations determines irregularities in terms of the collection, use or recording of funds within the meaning of this law, it is required to apply to the competent authorities and to submit a copy of the application to the chairman of the Finance Committee." This amendment is actually a reserve unless an amendment is accepted that Article 18 should be deleted. In view of the parliamentary powers of the Finance Committee, we believe that the Committee has the right to be informed of these developments, i.e. when irregularities in the use of funds have been identified by a particular political party. In any case, we warmly join all those who feel that the Finance Committee is no state body and is not competent to control the spending of these funds. I would remind you that Article 1 in the basic text of the law reads: "If there are irregularities in the collection, use or recording of funds within the meaning of this law, the chairman of the Finance Committee is required to submit his application to the competent authorities." This would mean that the chairman of the Finance Committee is working as an officer in some tax service and that he is professional and qualified and has the authority to do this. The absurdity of Article 18(1) is seen at first sight, and we believe that the parliamentary majority will certainly do well if they accept this amendment or if they accept the amendment to delete the entire article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32724	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to this article also contributes to the tightening of criminal measures, all in order to restore citizens' confidence in the party system that we are building in this country, as well as to build new and more modern institutions. As a consequence, he can have it and he should have one other thing. It is the creation of something that would be called a political layer, or kind of political elite in this country. In fact, modern societies, with growing specialization and stratification, require the more accurate commitment to certain professions and jobs. So, in political systems, sometime during the election campaign of future French President Pompidu in the mid-'60s, the concepts of free professions, which occasionally deal with politics, are temporarily entering politics. It has become highly specialized in political activities. As a consequence today, since the early 1980s, being a politician has been a profession, not a temporary engagement of free professions, intellectuals, peasants, workers or anything else, but a specialty of people who only manage one community. What this law, among other things, should trigger and encourage, is that this should happen with us. It is particularly characteristic in countries in transition that they have dealt with politics, primarily as one type of intellectual leisure, university professors, writers, intellectuals and everyone else who has found enough intellectual stimuli to deal with politics. Modern political societies, political systems no longer suffer this kind of volunteerism. It is necessary to build a serious, serious political elite, and that is what is necessary for Serbia at the moment to deal with the future of this country and this people in a serious and thoughtful way. We believe that only by trusting in the institutions of the system, only by building a serious party, or party system, something like that will be possible in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32726	Is there anyone else about authorized participants reporting for word? No, I don't. The amendment to article 19 was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32727	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, article 19 regulates the criminal provisions prescribed by this law. In front of the Serbian Radical Party on 19th, I submitted an amendment to replace the 1st number "200,000" with "50,000", and the number "1,000,000" is replaced by "200,000". When this criminal provision is read, what causes doubt is that it has four points on when this fine is applied, it is to obtain funds contrary to the provisions of this law. So, the law defines that funds for the work of political parties can be obtained on the basis of public sources and private sources. However, no international sources, sources of the American Congress, German budget, etc. are listed here, which were available a few years ago, so-called. A political coalition of DOS which, based on these funds and false promises, came to power in the Republic of Serbia. You all remember using the $77 million that the US Congress approved in 2000 for the work of that DOS political coalition that came to power. I understand that this law is passed because they no longer intend to pay you and to grant you funds, so you want to make one legislative proposal, regardless of the law on political parties, but there are laws on the financing of political parties, secure yourself for the next elections, because the law itself will only apply since 2004, when it is election years, if you can wait for the elections to be regular. I hope there's an early election. The next thing you know is it's under point 2) -- it doesn't open an account in accordance with the provisions of this law. This is an excessive provision that needs to be deleted, because every political party, even seriously, already has those accounts. Their municipal, regional committees have sub-accounts, so it's too high; or it should be understood that all these accounts of 1. 1. In 2004, they shut down to open new ones, and there's no need for that and why they would do it. Then, to run accounting. Look, every account that exists must have its own accounting, the final account must be submitted, and all of this stands in public view and there is no need to define something that is normal to define by such a bill. (President: three minutes. ) Let me just finish with point 4 where he submits reports according to... It's also defined by the laws and must be done. These provisions are too high, with the view that I consider this criminal measure to be reduced, as I have stated in my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32728	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32729	As Mr Kragovic explained this amendment, in addition to reducing the amount and range in which these fines can be determined, we believe that a million dinars is a tremendously large fine, at least for us. It's a huge asset. For us, six hundred and some thousand a month from the budget comes from the number of MPs and the party is rather dependent on these funds. Once such a large party is punished, with 33,000 members, it will be important to feel it. Of course, these smaller ones with a lot of assets that Alice is in a country of wonders in politics, they won't even feel it. As far as this second part of the amendment is concerned, we're asking to delete point 2), which is - if it doesn't open an account in accordance with Article 12 of this law. It's about bills specifically open when it comes to election campaigns. All the party does is promote a political idea, promote people who can make that political idea come true. All one party does is lobbying, sympathizing, sympathisers, potential voters, a desire to increase the number of members and everything else, to achieve the best result in the elections so that the party comes in a position to apply its programme. It's a political party. She always does it materially and financially through her regular account. There is likely a need to record specifically the funds spent during the election campaign. Special recording is possible, but the opening of a new account on which only this would be recorded, believe me, will be impossible for all parties in Serbia. This idea, which is promoted by this law, that one party who intends to participate in the elections 15 days before the elections, since the list has been announced, opens an account at the end of the election campaign and thus shows all revenues and expenditures and municipal committees, which may not even be able to telephone the central office where the account is, to transfer the funds to it, this is technically inconclusive. Technically, it's inconclusive if it stays in the law. Point 2) says -- the party will be fined from 200,000 to 1,000 dinars, and the municipal board was not even able to telephone to use those funds, even if it provided a stage. Interesting thing, for 20,000, someone should pay such a dragon's fine. That is why it is necessary to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32730	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 20, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly Hall is not attended either by Mrs Natasa Micic as Parliament Speaker, nor by the author of Minister Djelic, the finance minister, whether because of the headline in the newspaper - that the top of the country is in the trance, so he's probably recovering from that trance, or something else, I don't know. Although it is possible that Mr Djelic went to obtain some medical documentation, as I see that he publicly declares Dinkic is a psychopath. He probably needs medical records for tonight's duel to support it. As for the amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, it is to delete Article 20, as Article 20 defines that the political party that spends more than the amount prescribed by the law for the election campaign will be fined by a fine of 200,000 to 1,000 dinars. The person responsible under Articles 13 and 17 of this law with a fine of between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars will also be punished for the violation of Article 1 of this Article. Please, these penalties may be nothing for Mr Dinkic, who has a 5,000-euro salary, but take care because Article 13 defines that those persons, who are responsible for legal collection and dedicated spending, should be appointed by the promoter. Absolutely all funds must be collected legally and spent on purpose. It's not like the gentleman who owns the MK comet, who ten years ago had no money or used golf to buy, and now he owns the entire property that's in Vojvodina. Keep an eye on who's funding you, maybe it'd be better. Finally, in Article 17, you are trying to define the status of a particular political party in order to carry out internal control of financial operations, and that a particular person must be responsible for financial operations. What is certain is that the political party has a legitimate right to spend legally earned money, as money is understood to have been obtained in a legitimate and legal way. For example, the representatives of the local self-government in Leskovac are Mrs. Bojana Ristic and Gojko Veličković, absolutely persons who are least competent and responsible for exercising power. Who can ban representatives of the Serbian Radical Party from selling their house and other property, if necessary, to remove them from power and thus influence the possibility that someone else may exercise power in Leskovac or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32732	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32733	This amendment is a logical consequence of our previous amendments that we have asked to delete certain provisions of the bill, and hence this proposal goes to delete Article 20. This really doesn't mean anything. If there is talk of who has exceeded the permitted level of funding for the election campaign, I understand one definition, that in a material-financial perspective they are equalising and making them more equal (not exactly equal, but more equal) conditions for political functioning of parties when the elections are discussed. I have to tell you, it's not possible in Serbia yet. How to ensure equality when there are closed media, closed media space for political parties? Then this is completely pointless, and then we will come into a situation that some parties who are in power, regardless of size, regardless of property, but who have a pass-by at Bojana Lekic, at Zeljko Mitrovica, at B-92, at BK, are constantly on these shows, visiting local media, and we have heard that local state media are being formed now, although it is some urgency that all this is going to be privatised. They are finishing the job and there is no need to show it in the material finance business reports, nor do they need to portray it as part of election activities, because, for God's sake, he was called as a state official to state the position of the City Assembly, to state the position of the government or the ministry. There is no supervisory authority that would control whether there is abuse during the election campaign, and the opposition party, hampered by funds, and also by these provisions, that if it spends five dinars more than someone there imagined when he put his finger on the head, it comes to the situation that a million dinars will be charged to her, and for some opposition parties, that means closing the political party. That's what this is about. If someone interprets that we are seeking to delete this provision because it makes it impossible for us to benefit from it, so there is no benefit, be sure. One who is involved in political work, and especially if the party is in opposition, that's where the funds go. No one is funding the Serbian Radical Party to members of the Serbian Radical Party, members of their families and some citizens who are willing to buy one of our books and publications and thus help the Serbian Radical Party, so we interpret this as another means of intimidation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32734	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia to this law. So, our provision that the political party that spends more than the amount prescribed in the election campaign is double the amount of the fine that is more summable than the one that is being suspended from public sources by the end of the term of office, is actually a provision that has been taken over from the German law on the financing of political parties, and we think that it is more adapted to the very spirit of this law. For the reason that all participants in the election race are placed in a more equal position than a fixed amount, as foreseen by the current member, between 200,000 and millions of dinars. In the end, but not least, this, as we said yesterday, is a good law. It is written in a modern spirit and it is a good law even within European frameworks. As such, however, he is not in himself enough. It is necessary, and it is indeed an appeal that I made to the Serbian government yesterday, and I can also now, regardless of all our ideological differences and political conflicts, regardless of the opposition's goal of making the government worse, in order for it to capitalise in some way, in the interests of the state, it is in the interest of the Serbian society to undertake institutional reforms and to be implemented in a way that will suit all participants in the political game, not only now but also in the future. In addition to this law, it is necessary, I repeat, to pass the law on political parties, to finalise the electoral law and the law on conflict of interest and finally pass a law on a People's MP or the Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Only in this way will there be a full environment for institutional reforms in this country. It is not the interest of any party between us, not the ruling, not the opposition. It is the interest of the Serbian state and Serbian society. After all, the proposal, as I said, showed the good law itself to the Serbian government, namely to correct one of its delusions that existed over the past two and a half years. The delusion said that economic and social reforms are possible without an orderly state and without an orderly political society and political institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32736	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, the breaks are set for an hour. Since we have extended time until 20.00 hours, the breaks will be set at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 asking that this member be deleted, which reads: "Political parties are obliged to report to the Finance Committee within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, expressed in kind, height and origin of property. The report is published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" on the cost of the political party." In my amendment, I asked this member to be deleted for many reasons. Who is the Finance Committee to report to him? Is he an out-of-state government department? It is pointless for this report to be published in the Official Messenger on the cost of political parties, for two reasons. The first reason is for the Official Messenger to be read by lawyers, in the context of their work. Second reason - why would political parties finance the "officer"? The real public is achieved if this report is made up and published by the media, and the party's obligation is to deliver it to the media. The property report, i.e. the tax application, shall be submitted to the competent tax authority. The competent national authorities shall be empowered to monitor the legality of the work of legal persons, not the assembly committees. The fact that you started your election campaign in this way won't affect the voter's will. Everything you do will come back to you as a boomerang. You will submit your political and financial report to the citizens of Serbia in the elections, but make sure they do not adopt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32738	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here is a word from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32739	Article 22 really shouldn't exist. First, all parties are obliged to submit a final account, consisting of a balance sheet and a balance sheet of success, and in a balance sheet they show their assets. It's all there. Why should they now specifically inform the working body of the Republika Srpska Assembly and I don't know why political parties would especially publish this in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". If the political party is equal to other legal persons in the material-financial business, then let all businesses, institutions, institutions, publish reports on their assets in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", because I don't see the difference and I don't see why it would only be one legal person, and when we talk about the material-financial business of the political party, we talk about it as a legal person. Why would that legal person differ from another legal person involved in other activities? There's no difference. Legal persons are equal to legal persons and the same obligations of all legal entities to the State and the inspection bodies are in respect of material and financial transactions. Therefore, the balance sheet of assets is in the balance sheet and is available to each inspection body, puts it on public and not only public authorities, but everyone interested can contact and receive that information. If these data are published on a political party as a legal person, then let it be published on other legal persons, insurance companies, banks, etc. This establishes inequality, primarily in terms of material finance business. Therefore, Article 22 of this proposal of the law is unnecessary because it is contrary to other rules governing material finance operations. There is no valid reason, not only for this urgent procedure, but for particular emphasis that when it comes to political parties and their property, it will be published. I'm discussing very principledly, because if you look at the assets of the SRS, it's computers, it's the right to lease, although it's not property, but it's being conducted as a right; and what would be other than that political idea and harsh language, as a weapon, there's no other. There are two or three cars and that's the end of the story. In contrast, we have parties that are only registered, and they have large assets. If you wrote this because of these other political parties that pulled the amendments, because they bit their tongues, then you have our support, because you want to clear up within your ranks the property situation. When you're clearing up, go to the physical property.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32740	Three minutes. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreten Mitrovica. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32741	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, before the SPS, we have submitted an amendment to Article 22(1), which reads: "Political parties are obliged to report within six months of the date of entry into force of this law to the Finance Committee on their property, expressed by kind, height and origin of property." Since a colleague from a radical party mostly said what I might say, because the Finance Committee is a congregation body that has an overly consultative character, so he doesn't need to be given other powers. Surely no new working groups or new committees should be formed to control; why should the parties submit specific reports on their assets and on their financial operations, when there are public authorities, property and legal services and motifs and all others who can establish the property and origin of all parties' assets. However, if certain parties are not allowed to show their property, because we do not know how they legally took it, and given some of the things that happened after October 5th, surely some of the intentions are others. Why the Finance Committee, when we know the committees aren't involved, most of the time, all parties? Surely this article should either be deleted or the report delivered to the congregation itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32742	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32743	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Sinisa Mitrovica, in article 23, "and Article 16 of Item 5." They're being erased. I appreciate him, and he's the smart head that sits there. I suggested, Sinisha, that it be deleted in Article 16(5). So far it's spoken and I think it's pointless that one party should audit and find an auditor and go to two or three houses and pay 200, 300 thousand etc. Sinisa, what Minister Batic said. I say, organize a party, then write the law. That's ridiculous what you're writing. He told the creator of this law at the government. So this law needs to be written by whoever has a party, who's been creating a party for 10 years. There's a bit of a misunderstanding. We know that four parties have entered parliament here legally, Sinisha, and the strongest DOS-177 MPs, so the SPS, then the SRS, then the SSJ. Now, how are you going to transfer money to this scum SNS and the ones that ran away there and here? How are you going to audit? They are not, Granny, chosen by legal means. These traitors and S.P.S. scum who run away, that's the other one, that wasn't in the election, was it, Sinisha?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32744	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32745	With this amendment, we ask that practically the minister does his job, but not to prescribe some insignificant patterns, especially patterns that go towards the Finance Committee, because it practically doesn't matter. This amendment follows some previously submitted amendments. To understand political life in Serbia -- you know, it's all the same and it's gone. We're witnessing an upgrade that anything is possible. See, we work here with 40 people, not even 40. It is no longer a matter of the Rules of Procedure or of the Constitution. It's no longer a matter of goodwill, of education, of tolerance. It's a question of when you admit impotence. Unable to admit because the public is distant, and the extended state of emergency, we can talk, we don't get tickets, no one hears, that's another thing. You put up with what you hear, you think a little bit more, we bet how many resignations in the meantime, who won't come back from abroad, and, you see, it's already started that way. Indeed, this congregation has lost any meaning and within the meaning of Article 82...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32746	People's MP, I warn you of a business obligation to discuss the content of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32747	Yeah, and in the sense of Article 82, I'm asking you to check if there's a quorum to work, because there's no point in working in front of an empty gym.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32748	I ask the MPs to determine if there is a quorum needed for work, on the proposal of MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. I understand we have a quorum to work with. In the debate on Article 23 and the amendment of MP Lazar Marjanski, do any of the other authorised participants come forward? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, the MPs Rajko Baralić and Joca Arsic and the People's MP Vjerica Radeta submitted together in the same text. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32749	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, at the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties by counterpart Joca Arsic and I, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 24 to delete Article 2. It is unusual to leave the old law with the same name in the transitional and final provisions in part. I mean, this is something special, when the law was passed in one magic and apparently incorrect way, someone took possession of property that could be discussed in different ways. A team before the property was purchased later by the Democratic Party director and the fact that there is still a judicial dispute in this regard and that this property, among other things, was the subject of NATO bombing and that the pilot, Mr. John Smith, who made the bombing 20 days ago, was staying on a luxury yacht of an important man in this country. That is why it is not good to leave even this law a dilemma about these things; property is property, as acquired about it can be discussed, but it does not give anyone the right to come to property that is not formally discussed. That's why I think we should accept this amendment. What I was just talking about was the case of a court dispute, although the property was sold to Slovenians in the middle of a court dispute at several times the price of which it was bought from the state. It doesn't matter. One day, we're gonna have a nice department on someone else's expense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32750	Do any of the amendment applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32751	Article 13 The law on the financing of political parties, which was adopted in October 2000 and Article 14 regulates the status of assets belonging to the Alliance of Communists, the Socialist Union of the Yugoslav Workers' People and the Alliance of the Socialist Youth of Yugoslavia. According to that Article 13, the extension of the duration of which you provide for this Article 24, the assets are intended to be transferred to the then Federal Government, with at least one half of the immovable property that, in the possession of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, will be allocated to parliamentary parties for regular work. The deadline for this job was six months and expired in May 2001. You, on the basis of that Article 13, have taken a certain asset from the SPS, of course, I have no intention of crying over the fate of the SPS, but you have not fulfilled the second part of the position 2, you have not divided that property into parliamentary parties. Instead, you're having a pointless dispute to move the SRS out of legally leased business space. You also did not do the part that you had as a commitment and in relation to New Democracy, now Liberal Serbia, which remained a significant part of the property belonging to the Alliance of Socialist Youth; these are large areas in all cities across Serbia and that, Mr. Mitrovica, has nothing to do with Baghdad, has to do with illegal arms exports via Lutra. For the reasons set out in Articles 13 and 14, it is not necessary to apply further, since only legally specified deadlines for Article 13 and Article 14 which refers to the possible erasure of the property of these former organisations; it was either already transferred to the property of the then Federal Government, the removal of the book is regulated by law and the delete of the book can take place within an absolute period of five years. Since that deadline has expired, I think it is absolutely justified to accept this amendment, because if this amendment is not accepted, it is absolutely pointless to leave the members of the 13th and 14th of this Law on the financing of political parties, which is otherwise put out of force. The fact that there are disputes has nothing to do with these members of the law. As the disputes end, judicial decisions will be applied to the Liberals of Serbia, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32752	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32753	There is practically no legal reason why it would be maintained in force by two members of the law that ceases to apply. But that law, which was passed at the end of 2000, except that it is interesting because one property is declared state, has another part where it is said that half of that property should be given to the use of the parties. It's probably the least done here. In some places it is, where there were no disputes, in some disputes they stopped the process. I have to say what it looks like in practice. You see, when the SRS won local power in Zemun, at the end of 1996, all the parties that had council members in the Zemun Municipality Assembly received business space for use within 15 days, and the GSS, in all order of the political party, won. They also received an unlimited right to use a large hall in Kosovo Street for promotional gatherings, with a very short procedure, only to announce in time that the hall is not occupied. The parties could count on budget funds, as much as possible to fund them according to the number of committees, and each party had its own undermining in the Zemun newspaper. Maybe it wasn't a reflection of some democracy, maybe all that could have been put on some kind of a grudge. But in 2000, when those local elections were held, it happened that the SRS could no longer use any of the halls, it happened that the SRS Municipal Committee in the White Church was brutally expelled, in India the municipal government came and replaced the lock and said - you no longer use this. If there's a court order -- there's no, there's no solution -- there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's Of course, criminal proceedings go their own way, and that's not a problem, and I'm not asking the Assembly to solve it, and I don't need the Assembly to solve it, but I'm pointing to what's being respected here, and it's about tolerance and similarity to understand the multiparty system. If we're political inexperience, it doesn't mean we have to destroy ourselves. Some political unthinkers are destroying some laws. (President: three minutes. Just one more sentence. You can honor the people of the SPS who draw their origins from 1945, but none of you can honor me with any respect or persecution, or even those who came begging me to support them as they strike. Those who caught the connection in 2000 on someone's order would be better off covering themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32754	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been issued by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32755	Given this amendment, which has been pointed out, I must admit that I am really demoted to enter a dialogue that looks more like a dialogue in front of a village store, that such an argument is being made. For a valid document on arms exports, I know that only one cold saber was delivered to Baghdad and that it was the only serious story.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32756	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment asking that the 25th paragraph be replaced by a point, and the rest of the text is deleted. The bill aims to prevent the financing of political parties and to stifle the rights of Serbian citizens guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law on the financing of political parties comes into force on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 January 2004. The SRS considers that the delayed application of the law is unnecessary, given that political parties and under the applicable regulations have current accounts subject to all types of control. Then why delay the application of the Law on the financing of political parties? As you touch the spheres of society, you cause chaos. Instead of simplifying your problems, you create a real galatias problem with your incompetence and accentuated autism. The ban on the financing of political parties by foreign states has been discussed without scruples by those who based their existence and their coming to power on the aid of foreign states. The government of the Republic of Serbia's strategy is based on the fight against corruption, and corruption has found refuge nowhere but the epicenter of the government. Returning citizens' confidence in the political system is your illusion, because rather than leaving the Danube from Smederev to Belgrade, you, as you are, will gain any confidence in the citizens. I have no hope that you will accept my amendment, but I have hope that soon with my fellow SRS MPs on the myths throughout Serbia I will help the citizens to hear your farewell song - the swan sings most beautifully before death. Your most beautiful song will go along with the rhythm of Dragoljub Đuričić's drum, just as you came to power. Liberal democracy is a form of totalitarian regime, just like fascism and communism. In addition to dictatorship, force and violation of freedom and the rights of citizens, you, gentlemen, have no other arguments. I'd just like to say something more to Milka - in the crosswords of a screamer, Milka, it's called a parrot.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32758	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32759	This amendment could also apply to some other laws adopted here and which are in the process. If you propose an emergency procedure and then make that law enter into force on the eighth day of the day of publication, then it is normal to apply it with the date of entry into force of that law. Exceptionally, for certain system laws, large laws that require tectonic changes, it is possible to adopt it one day, enter into force within eight days, and it starts to apply after six months, there have been cases and a year, depending on the amount and needs of jobs that are necessary to be carried out so that the law can be applied. What you wrote just seems contradictory. We want the law adopted by emergency procedure to come into effect immediately, and we'll see when. That's unserious. However, you are proposing a resolution decision, so you do not vote for your decision. As far as those sabers are concerned, the saber could not have been released without the approval of the competent national authority. Imagine, the approval had to be written by Mladjan Dinkic. Believe it or not, it's in our regulations, because it's about artistic value, exceptional. Dinkic had to write his approval and it really went away, but not as a cold weapon, but as a gift. It's an old Serb war sword.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32760	National MP, calling for discipline and self-discipline of members of your parliamentary group, I ask you to warn yourselves that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32761	Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32762	Because you're not talking about the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32763	That's what we were talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32764	National MP, you have received three minutes to talk about the content of the amendment to Article 25, which was submitted by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32765	I hope that by adopting this amendment, we will prevent the situation from finding out who was exporting through Liberia, who was a member of the Jugoimport Management Board. There were 60,000 dinars there.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32766	I warn you of the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32767	See Article 25, what stands here and see how political parties are financed and tell who was a member of the Management Board. If you do not know, members of the Management Board were Zoran Zivkovic and Dusan Mihajlovic. He exported to Liberia Cume along with what is rehabilitated at VMA, your General Pavkovic. Please, that's why I'm asking this law to come into effect as soon as possible, as well as to adopt attitude two, so as soon as you get that money back, that 400 million you got.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32768	People's MP, you've had an exhibition on the previous amendment, where you've been allowed a whole minute more than usual to the MPs in this assembly, where you've had an attitude on your sense of democracy and proved that you've been able to respect others. I'm sorry you denied it in this amendment to Article 25. This concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer, or the Proposer's representative, want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the draft law on the financing of political parties in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the National Bank of Serbia (the joint principle search with the 3rd item of the agenda) A unanimous decision of the National Assembly to carry out a joint search on the proposals of the law for which the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Siniša Mitrovica decided, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 90, it is appropriate. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a total time of debate in the principle of parliamentary groups for five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask all parliamentary groups, presidents, vice-presidents or authorised representatives to deliver a list of Members of Parliament and the order they wish to address to the National Assembly, and by obligation from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am opening a joint principle search on: - Proposal for a Law on the National Bank of Serbia, and - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations. Does the representative of the proposing Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Finance and Economy, want a word? Yeah. ) The word is by Mr Bozidar Djelic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32769	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you have a two-law discussion before you: about the National Bank of Serbia and amendments and additions to the Law on Banks and other financial organisations. Both laws concern central, monetary institutions of the Republic of Serbia. By proposing these laws, we fulfil the obligation made by the Constitutional Charter and the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, as well as some obligations made in implementing the three-year arrangement with the IMF, but more importantly, that way we come, if you adopt these laws, to modern laws that regulate an extremely sensitive and important area. So, we don't pass this law because of others, and I suggest that we do the most for ourselves, because in the domain of monetary policy, supervision of banks, foreign policy, but also the work of a central monetary institution, we will make great progress by adopting these laws. Not only that, we'll stop being an exception. Exception with only a few other countries, where the central monetary institution has no supervision whatsoever. As we have seen, with a special financial plan proposed by the leadership of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, the whole financial plan consists of three rows: total income, so many billions, then there were 17.8 billion; total expenditures, just as much as 17.8 billion; and third point, this financial plan takes effect eight days after its announcement. We will notice, given how many discussions we have in this home, about the much smaller effects, the figures, and also perhaps some minor topics, it is very important that, because of the proper implementation of monetary policy, the proper functioning of payment traffic, the supervision of banks, we need to invest in this domain, not only in the interest of democratic oversight of the work of the professional institution, but also in the interests of those who work in the central bank. Because, of course, enhanced supervision and thus the acceptance of careful reports, better knowledge of what is going on, the adoption of some proposals, that is how management and those who are employed in the National Bank will gain more faith in themselves and democratic coverage and conviction that what they are doing is by law and by what is outlined in economic policy, especially in monetary policy. Thus, these two laws are in the best interest of those who are employed at the National Bank, because in this way they will have much more ingenuity, much more addictions and certainly, with increased supervision, the certainty that what they are doing is entirely within the law. So I urge you to vote for these two laws. I'd like to go into a few details and say a few words about the three key elements in these two laws. First, contrary to what has been said, since a completely different public life story has been raised around this law, this law strengthens the independence of the National Bank. Why? Because the experience of countries in transition and developed countries in the last 30 years -- no doubt -- is one of the few elements where there is virtually no doubt, because in the economy many things can be discussed, many theories can be denied by what is happening in practice, however, here the theory and practice agree -- that strong central bank, independent monetary policy in the medium and long term is a real recipe for any country, whether it is poor, medium-developed or rich. Those countries where central banks are strong and independent in the implementation of monetary policy are the same countries where inflation is lower, and in the medium term, although it is also one of those specificities of implementing economic policy on short notice. That's not always good. It's not always easy to fit in with economic growth. These are the same countries that have a long-term increase in labour productivity, as well as an increase in gross domestic product per capita, and ultimately a better life and standard for their citizens. At the other end of the spectrum are countries with weaker monetary central institutions, poor monetary policy, a major impact of daily policy. Our people have also tasted, twice in the last 13 years, through hyperinflation what it is that can bring a weak monetary policy, a weak central institution and a direct political pressure on it, with entirely irresponsible public finances going as tandem with it. Therefore, it is very important to stress here that this law, as our domestic experts say, but also many foreign experts and relevant institutions, such as the IMF, the World Bank or the European Union, significantly promotes the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. I'll explain it in a few short sentences. The second element that we have in this law is something stronger control over the work of the central bank, because if we look at what is in this proposal before you, I can tell you that this surveillance is one of the smallest and least extensive and deep, which any central bank has. You'll be wondering why? Because we are deeply convinced that this is the right measure for Serbia at this point, so that this surveillance doesn't turn back into some kind of interference, some form of exhibition in public life, and, God forbid, through the interference of people on the side, to have some irregularities in work, to sell confidential information about some financial organisations that can benefit from them. Because of this, what is proposed in the domain of supervision bounces away from the model that is now widely accepted, where you have the interference of people on the part voted by Skuština, in the heart of operations of the National Bank, it is the implementation of monetary policy, foreign exchange policy and the functioning of payment traffic and supervision of banks, but there are very valid arguments for Serbia today. The last thing is, respecting everything I have said so far, improving the coordination of the work of the National Bank of Serbia with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of course with the Assembly. Now, if you'll allow me to move on to each of these three points, I'd like to say a few sentences about each of them. First, the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. The bill in Articles 2nd and 3rd states - The National Bank of Serbia is independent and independent in performing the functions set out in these and other laws and is responsible for its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To you, not to the government. Of course, the government is the emmanism of the majority and there is correspondence and there is no need to see any abstraction now. However, if we are democracy, according to Tokvil -- that is the tyranny of the majority, it means that the majority in many things has an impact on what is happening in society, but, on the other hand, as some other famous people have said -- it is the least bad way of organising life in one society. This alone cannot be avoided by some majority and some democracy, some supervision, but you still have something in view of the 3rd law that Slovenia, or the Czech Republic, introduced only last year, in 2000, which is that the National Bank of Serbia will not receive or seek instructions from state authorities and other persons in the performance of its functions. To be clear, the National Bank of Serbia will co-operate, but in this way and in law it is clear, in those first general provisions, that there are no more phones that say - give the primary show to the company. By the way, the primary show for businesses is not possible in any case, and as far as the Republic of Serbia's budget is concerned, it is extremely limited to 5% of total revenues. Also, through the amendments we have accepted, these loans will have to be returned by the end of the year, so these are very short-term crossovers of liquidity and there is no printing of money if you adopt this law, there is no funding of deficits through some instructions that someone can give to the National Bank. I want it to be clear because lately there's been a lot of bidding on this subject, without any resistance to this law. Finally, the government neither proposes nor appoints any of the managers in the National Bank, nor appoints, nor proposes any body of the management of the National Bank. That responsibility and honor are left to this home. As far as the objectives of the National Bank are concerned, we have something that has become a standard and is related to the effective experience that all countries have, which is that the basic objective proposed here for the National Bank of Serbia is to achieve and maintain price stability. This is clearly indicated as a basic objective and when the basic objective is stated, this means that other objectives are subordinated to that objective. So it's a sterile and outdated story of hiring foreign reserves for growth, or the possibility of borrowing something for a moment, so it comes back, to make it a little bit better, it's something that this institution won't accept, just because someone can't have something and its opposite, foreign reserves are used to provide cover for our national currency. It's the price of trust in our national currency. It has a price, but in return we have a stable currency and after two and a half years it is certainly one of the greatest achievements in our country and for that we can also be grateful to Governor Dinkic and his entire team, because they have worked with a lot of fire, with a lot of engagement and energy to achieve that goal. It wasn't written in that law, but they worked hard at that goal. Of course, we know what's going on these days, but what I'm saying is, there's not a shred of hypocrisy or any irony in what I said. I mean this honestly. You also have one secondary objective in these objectives, which is to preserve financial stability. So, the National Bank of Serbia needs to ensure the stability of our financial system. What does that mean? This means that if a bank falls into a liquidity problem, the National Bank must be there as the first defender of stability. We've seen that the National Bank can't always do it alone. Unfortunately, what we had to do at the beginning of last year, which was to launch a bankruptcy procedure against four banks, where not only had the National Bank intervened, took the necessary measures, so that the four banks would not in themselves, because of their importance, liquidity, and withdrew the entire financial system, but of course the budget of the Republic of Serbia was engaged, and largely with some 7.6 billion dinars, of course, it was temporarily secured in the budget, compensated the liquidity of banks and businesses and citizens who could be trapped in accounts that these banks had at the moment they were closed. Of course, the money is now returning because the Republic of Serbia's budget is a trustee of the first order. In the past two or three weeks, according to the hearings organised by the trade court, we have already "returned" some 1,200,000 dinars of the funds involved and there will be more. It's safe, we'll never get the full amount back. That is why we must have this clear idea where the National Bank keeps financial stability, and the Republic of Serbia guarantees it, and it is in Article 1 of this law, for its obligations. The whole state is behind the National Bank. There's no way she's going bankrupt, contrary to what's been speculated in public about. Finally, the third position in the key member states that, without jeopardising the basic goal, the National Bank of Serbia will support the implementation of the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a standard formulation where it is seen that the National Bank must have absolute independence in what it aims, it must have a very clear goal, but that does not mean that it is somewhere in an abstraction, that it is on another planet, that its objectives should not be to the extent possible, harmonised and its action absolutely coordinated with the rest of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is clearly and modernly indicated and therefore the formulation of this article is one of the standard ones that we can have. If I now move to the issue of strengthening independence, I would like to say a few words about what the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia are, so much more than there have been public speculation and a lot of incorrect information that has been launched. If we look at the appointment and the authorities, we see that the way the management of the National Bank is organised leads to the least control, but much better than what we have today, over the work of that institution, which certainly exists in Europe and beyond. Three organs are proposed. The first body is the monetary board of the National Bank of Serbia, where the governor and vice governors sit, three to five. The session is attended, without the right to vote, by the finance minister in terms of co-ordination, but without the right to vote. It's a place where it's done collegiately, unlike today when it's all done by the governor, without some kind of procedure, because the National Bank itself has records and decisions. In any case, I do not want what I say to mean that something is going wrong, but in any case, through one collective decision, we will have better transparency in what is the heart of the National Bank, which is the implementation of monetary policy, raising and lowering the minimum reserve rate, intervention on the foreign market, decision on the econcentrate rate, or intervention on the open market. The word is, we have collegiation, we have an organized way of doing things, we have records, we have decisions, but it's all being held inside the National Bank of Serbia. I want to make it clear that this is deviating to some extent from the standards of all countries in our environment, including developed countries, where at the same time you have one single body that is administrative and supervisory at the same time, which is often called a council, where decisions are made on monetary policy, supervision of banks and a lot of other things that are very sensitive and where people who are not employed at the National Bank and who came from outside vote. Not only that, but if we look at the comparative experience in other countries we find that in a large number of these countries, those who come outside the bank are often in the majority, so in these countries, and I will give you an example of Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic or Romania, there are more people in these councils who are appointed, and they are not governor, vice governor or working within the central bank, and they vote with the same voting right as the governor and his team, who is a minority. This situation has not put independence at risk anywhere. We see that it is possible after that, because that is how it is done, but what you are proposing here is to respect the specificity of Serbia, its political and social opportunities. The fact is that this is the beginning of the transition and that perhaps it is not yet the time for decisions on the implementation of monetary policy to be opened in this way by the presence and voting, and thus the possibility of greater public access to this information and, God forbid, that one of these members and the information that is confidential and sensitive is placed in one way that is in the interest of a group, and not the other. In this way, we ensure that this body, the first body I spoke about, the monetary committee, has collegiate in the decision-making process, but it remains within the central bank. Here is the inspiration of Switzerland, which has this organization and to some extent Hungary. In Hungary, there is the same organization, and yet there is a provision in Hungary under which there are people on the monetary board who come outside, and that is something that we have eliminated here. The other authority is the governor, the governor who in the Constitution of the SRJ and the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia was the only authority and it is unique in the world, that one person decided absolutely everything and was responsible for everything. Now, and what only the leadership of the National Bank of Yugoslavia proposed in the draft law and bill, in the Federal Assembly last April, means the base for this text has existed for 15 months and it has been widely used here. The same supervisory authority was envisaged there. However, the supervisory authority was because the Constitution itself was an obstacle, as it predicted only the governor as an organ. And, let's remember in the 1990s, a piece of advice that was made was removed, it was banned by the Federal Constitutional Court's decision, which looked at the Constitution and said - until a change of constitution could have one such supervisory board. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is now being applied to this bank. Of course, after discussion and consultation with the Constitutional Court of Serbia, it was established that there is a constitutional basis to pass one such law and there is no limit to making an additional body, such as the advice of the National Bank of Serbia, where, according to the proposal, there will be five persons, four plus presidents, who are the most supervised, but since they are still making some decisions, our lawyers said it could not be called the supervisory authorities and the supervisory board, and then it is called the advice of the National Bank of Serbia. The council meets on average once every three months and has important functions because it adopts the financial plan and the annual account, establishes a single tariff for the National Bank, and thus there will be little more dialogue on the issue. If we look at the National Bank of Yugoslavia's financial plan from last year, we will find that the fees paid by the economy and the banks increased from about six billion to nearly 12 billion dinars. It seems to us that surveillance should look at what is happening here and see what is the extent of what the National Bank and the leadership want to charge from citizens and do something that is appropriate, not some form of coverage for certain fixed costs that may not be necessary, because our National Bank today employs 4,700 people, although there is no reliable information. Of course, there's a banknote-making office and it's supposed to stay. I am personally absolutely against any crazy idea, which is sometimes heard about privatising such an institution, and it is absolutely not appropriate. And there's also some bodies that are going to come out of the National Bank, a bond center, a central register, there's something that's supposed to be there, so now the heart of the National Bank plus its exposure, it's hard to say, but maybe it's about 2,500 to 3,000 people. In Greece, which has the largest national bank according to its population, it is 3,000. Great Britain has a national bank that has 2,000 employees. Macedonia has a national bank where there are 290 employees, and Croatia 550, so we have to some extent a single national bank that requires additional reform so that it does not carry its fixed costs through fees, through differences that will charge on the course when it is bought and sold and in some other ways that it comes to income, that it is not a motive for it to charge more, because it is like when at the very source of money it collects and then it breaks through the entire banking system and throughout the economy. Therefore, the issue has some transitional provisions in this law, which should deal with this extremely unpopular measure, which is to streamline the operations of the National Bank itself. There are also certain provisions in the supervisory authority, the council, concerning the heights of the governor's and vice governor's earnings, as well as the criteria for earning people, for employees with powers. I have to say there is a need to avoid any form of demagogy that high-level employees at the National Bank of Serbia must have very good wages. They must be comparable to the people they oversee, which they work with, which are banks, and the experience is that in these institutions, banks, salaries are mostly in transition countries and should not at all be the subject of controversy that experts of the National Bank of Serbia have quite correct payments, even several times higher than people who work in the government. It doesn't like a lot of people in the government, but it's simply some standard that exists, and it shouldn't affect the outflow of personnel, and I'm responsible for saying that this law won't lead to spillouts, because it's simply not going to allow experts to leave because of the reduction of their salaries. Not only that, but what is very important, this supervisory authority, the council, is making a selection of an authorised auditor to verify the financial reports of the National Bank of Serbia. As for the appointment of the authorities, there were many stories about why and whether it was an attack on the independence of the National Bank and on the status of governors that in this bill it was proposed that he or she be proposed by the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly. I would like to say that if the SRJ Constitution was relevant to the law before, the Constitution of Serbia is now relevant. It was not possible before because of the constitution to introduce a supervisory authority and now because of the Constitution of Serbia, until it is changed, it is not possible for the President of the Republic, which is the idea and standard, to be the person who proposes the governor, because the Serbian Constitution is taxing on what the president can do. The Serbian Constitutional Court noted that a few weeks ago, as the performer of the duty of the Republic of Serbia made some decisions that had been annulled because there were no objections in the constitution to be made. That is why it is not possible for the president to propose a governor until the constitution is changed, but, of course, one of the changes that will follow the constitution will be one of these, to propose a governor. Then we stayed with two options. The first is that the governor proposes the government, which simply, as we see in the rest of this, is not exactly in line with these principles, or that it be the Assembly and the Committee that is relevant to this, the Finance Committee. It is a practice in Croatia. The governor of the National Bank of Croatia proposes the Finance Committee and it did not bother the governor of the National Bank of Croatia to be elected as the world's best governor by the best financial magazine, so there is no need to bid with any demagogy this year. That doesn't mean the governor can't be good because he's proposed by the Finance Committee. Also, if we look at the Vice-Governors, unlike other countries where almost everywhere the vice-governments are elected in the assembly, on the proposal of the governors often, and sometimes the government, sometimes the same president, is proposed that the vice-governments, or the closest of the governors, propose to the National Bank of Serbia. So it's not some subject of the story again that there's a surveillance and there's a counter-mechanism and that you can see who these are people who are appointed, because in the current situation and in the current law, the governor appoints whoever he wants, he's totally autonomial in terms of the appointment of his associates. He can have as many as he wants. Only a deputy is left to be appointed by the National Assembly, i.e. The Yugoslav Assembly. It's proposed there are no deputies here, because it's a bit of an out-of-date provision. What I can still say is that in this law, there is a very carefully worked out procedure under which the governors can be transferred. First of all, you have tax-counted reasons in the law that could possibly put the governor's shift procedure in motion. This should trigger the advice of the National Bank of Serbia alone. After that, that advice may be forwarded if it establishes that there are bases for the initiation of the procedure, i.e. to the competent authority. The National Assembly Finance Committee. The National Assembly Committee should seek out a report from the governor himself, which means that we are approaching something that the Americans would call impeachment, is interested and has the opportunity to defend themselves, explain, and that the public knows what this is all about. Only if the Finance Committee then finds that there are elements for it, then it goes to the vote in the Republika Srpska Assembly. This further strengthens the independence of the National Bank and the governor, who manages it and represents it. The last thing I would like to mention is the third point, which is co-operation between the National Bank of Serbia and other levels of government. There's been a lot of talk about it here. For the first time legally there is a government obligation, i.e. The finance ministry will deliver to the National Bank of Serbia a memorandum on the budget and the draft budget itself before it is forwarded to the National Assembly. Not only that, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance form a strategic council, and I think we have accepted an amendment that deletes in the law that it is unnecessary, but it already exists and will continue to happen for the coordination of fiscal and monetary policy. The National Bank will have one number of reports to the National Assembly and a large number will be published, some of them in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and some on the internet presentation of the National Bank. Put your hand on the soul, it's already doing it effectively, and I can say that this is the institution that perhaps, of all the institutions in the state administration today, is the most publicised by information about macroeconomic movements, monetary policy movements. There may already be some kind of example for other institutions today, in terms of providing the public with information that is important for understanding the conduct of monetary policy. What I have said is quite untransparent and the duplicitous in the finances itself is not true for what is public for their work and their data regarding the implementation of monetary policy, decisions made either by law or by sublegal acts and other acts taken in the exercise of their competences. I'd like to point out something else, that we have one innovation here, and that's to indicate the underlying capital and it's proposed 10 billion dinars. It will be completed progressively, through a 30% arrest, because we accepted one amendment of surplus income over the expenditures of the National Bank of Serbia. It is foreseen in the sense that the Republic guarantees the obligations of the National Bank in the event of a problem and that in the years when expenditures are higher than income. Of course, the advice itself should respond, but unless it is possible to cover the surplus expenditure on reserve revenues, as well as capital itself, in which case the Republic of Serbia will jump in, if I may put it this way, with budget funds and securities of value. At any moment, the stability of our financial system will be ensured. In conclusion, I want to say something about the laws on banks and other financial organisations, where we propose some changes. They give very broad powers to the central bank to carry out a sharp surveillance of banks. We have one exception from the executive procedure, where the National Bank and the Governor can impose fines. That's not the standard, that's what a criminal court does, and it's not just punishments that go for a legal person, it's also about bank managers. Experience has shown that unfortunately in our country, unless you have some way of sanctioning something, it is difficult to introduce discipline and order. I can say, and there has been a lot of controversy and inaccuracy brought about in our public life, as regards monetary policy, foreign policy, these are provisions that only the leadership of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and today Serbia has proposed in the previous draft law. We've adopted them as such. They're somewhat less specific than they should be. The observations of the IMF, the World Bank and the European Union, which have not been accepted to a large extent, are those remarks that there is no even better restriction on what the National Bank can do in the implementation of monetary policy and foreign policy. They wanted us to have, as well as the European Union, more precision in the law that charters can buy and sell one bank, as risks are shared in the implementation of foreign policy. The leadership of the National Bank and those most responsible for it, their remark was that it was not yet time. It is not time for such strict provisions to be introduced into Serbia and there should be this discretion so that they can implement a monetary and foreign policy that is appropriate to Serbia. We've heard their remarks. This law is a law that will ensure the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. It will enable, for the first time and there is a great exception and not only in the developed world, surveillance, but it is one of the mildest models that exist; therefore we propose it, it is suitable for our opportunities, for our public life. We have better coordination through a greater exchange of information, more joint work, which will not endanger the independence of the National Bank of Serbia and other levels of government, and its powers in the domain of monetary policy, foreign policy and supervision of banks are not only weakened, but are significantly strengthened. Therefore, we have an excellent law on the National Bank of Serbia and a bill on amendments and additions to the Bank Act and I urge you to vote them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32770	I'm setting a break until 4:00. In the afternoon part, the right to speak shall be given to the rapporteur of the committee responsible for finance and the MPs who have issued an opinion on the Committee on Finance, and the presidents and representatives of the parliamentary groups. At 3:30, the session of the Legislative Committee is on the ground floor. Thank you. [[After break - 16.35.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continue the session in the afternoon, and please, in order to determine the quorum, to insert your identification cards into the parliamentary voting units. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia and a bill on amendments to the Law on Banks and other financial organisations. Does the rapporteur in charge of the Finance Committee want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the MPs who gave their opinion want a word? The word is by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, who issued an opinion at the Finance Committee's session to discuss the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32772	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read to you the brief procedure of putting the law on Parliament's agenda; it says that committees have subcommittees, and, if necessary, groups and committees on which legislation proposals are being discussed, together with the biggest businessmen, experts, college professors, union representatives and others. Before the law is considered at Parliament's session, three readings are previously carried out, i.e. examinations on committees and subcommittees. So as not to confuse you, this is how it is done in the Czech Parliament. As you're doing with us, you're witnessing on your own. On July 11th, the government discussed a package of laws, delivered it to parliamentary clubs on Saturday, a session on Monday with the laws on the agenda. MPs come and get to know the laws for the first time. However, some parliamentary groups, including ours, are planning to do so on Sunday's parliamentary club to advance at least one night, so that we can read and prepare for the session. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of work is the negation of parliamentaryism. This is an insult to our MPs and to the electoral body that sent us here. What can we do in a procedure like this with laws? Can we study how these laws affect the electoral body, or environments from which we come? Can we, on the basis of the analysis, suggest possible improvements, so we prepare and praise the law, if it's commendable. I think you're clear enough why I've singled out my opinion and I haven't voted for these laws on the Finance Committee, because this is, I repeat, a negation of parliamentaryism and an insult to all of us sitting here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32773	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? The word comes from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32774	It would be good for this session to be attended at least by someone from the government, because it really is a serious issue, and that the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is a serious topic, let's just say, the following information. The law was passed in the Federal Assembly in 1994, preceded by a debate in Malta for six months. Of the MPs from the meeting here are Branislav Blažić, Radojko Petrovic and Zoran Ćirković, and we know the procedure and how much trouble the law has brought. That law was backed by Miroljub Labus, so you know right away. It is the law that envisioned the council, the deputy governor, and for that law the Socialists and the DPS at the time ensured the agreement of the International Monetary Fund. I'm not saying this as a negative reason, I'm just saying, because we heard that this version of the National Bank Act also gave the International Monetary Fund consent. What must be understood in this National Assembly is that it is not enough to look at some books, compare some data, and demonstrate simply some information knowledge in order to competently discuss one law. It is necessary for the monetary area to be understood, to understand the state, obligations, jobs and functions of the state authorities, and then to approach the creation of an act like this law, which needs to be regulated by the monetary area. This is how we heard some data from the proposing's representative. It's a good thing a man demonstrates knowledge of data, but between that data there's no connective tissue. There's no connective tissue on which he could convince us that this is a good bill. Based on this bill, the next impression is infallible - that the biller knows neither the place nor the role, nor the status of the central monetary institution. You see, in the government-sharing system, the central bank is at the same level as the government; the National Bank also has an executive function, but the executive function is related to the monetary area, not to these other areas belonging to the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an executive body. This means that the government is responsible for the National Assembly, so the National Bank of Serbia is responsible for the National Assembly. What does that mean? All contacts, all relations, all relations, including the status of the National Bank are resolved in the same way as the status of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There must be co-operation between them, but it must be not only controlled but to a certain level and on specific issues. In order to make this necessary balance that the Government fulfils its obligations and is guaranteed to achieve economic policy, the whole system of provisions creates a single allowed conflict between the Government and the National Bank, so that the National Bank can be partly independent and independent, but only as long as it takes to ensure the stability of domestic currency and financial discipline and those other jobs that are within the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia, and that the Government in these affairs does not disturb it, and that the National Bank does not question its policy to achieve economic policy. That balance does not exist in this bill. These stories of the goals, of independence, and, as an example, of the authority of the National Bank of Serbia, of business, of control, etc., are not enough to tell us that there is that allowed conflict between the two state authorities. The next great delusion that was present with the promoter is that he misinformed us on the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court. Earlier, the National Bank of Yugoslavia had advice and deputy governors, so when there was interference with something outside the law, the Federal Constitutional Court decided to give a tendence to that provision of Article 124. The federal constitution that says - the National Bank has a governor who manages, and out of it has drawn the whole view, that there is no need for advice and that he is independent, let me adopt this termology from a moment ago, an incoherent management body. In those conditions, that decision has taken place. It draws the wrong conclusion that there is something in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that does not stand. The 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, remember, at the time of the collapse of the former SFRY, retained a provision on the National Bank and has two positions. The first view is that there is a National Bank of Serbia and a second view that the law regulates its status, organisation and business. There is no interference with the law to regulate the very area, status, organisation and business of the National Bank of Serbia. A new mistake is being made continuously, and it is reportedly here that the creator of the 1990 Constitution, Slobodan Vučetic, interpreted the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that the president of the Republic of Serbia could propose the choice of those officials, and only those for which it is mentioned in the Constitution. If the parallel relationship between the National Bank and the Government is known from that parallel relationship to the same level of government, it is inevitably concluded that the only one who can propose the Governor of the National Bank is the first person of the executive authority, which is the President of the Republic. Bringing on the Financial Committee so that it leads the personnel policy in the work of the Executive Authority is unacceptable. What exists in Croatia, which exists in some other countries, look at their constitutions, and you will see why they resort to some other forms of regulation of these things and these questions. The second thing the SRS specifically wants to point out is the stability and health of the national currency. It is the first task to be met by the National Bank of Serbia. Price and service stability, a second task that needs to be met by the National Bank of Serbia. A harmonised valuation in the financial market, which is an interest rate policy -- must be asked about the National Bank of Serbia and intervened in the area when necessary, when interest rate policy endangers not only economic policy but also the stability of national currency. Furthermore, foreign exchange business is well within the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia; the growth of domestic demand must be tailored to the growth of the social product, the National Bank of Serbia must do everything to ensure that our work, wages and earnings are not valued. By definition, everything is clear, it does not comply with this proposed law. The SRS can't vote for this law. As far as this division is concerned, Dinkic and one and the other are absolutely right when they tell each other everything. We do not want to enter this debate, we want to talk about the National Bank of Serbia and how to ensure the stability of our currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32775	The word comes from MP Srdjan Petrovic, deputy president, DSS parliamentary group. Any of the other presidents, vice presidents or authorised representatives, come forward for a word? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32776	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, the DSS has already announced its position on the issue of the law. In the beginning, I would like to ask some questions to Finance Minister Bozidar Djelic. Obviously, this law - making situation is not normal, and this is evident from the fact that the minister is not with us, although he was one of the ministers who has always followed the assembly discussions. The first question would be, for the introduction, who wrote the law, because as you know this area was previously regulated in a federal domain, so we had a monetary policy sector in the Federal Ministry of Finance. We didn't hear if such a sector was formed in the republic's ministry, with Minister Djelic. The speed of law-making is high, and some necessity has forced the government and the Ministry to try to pass this law at this time of summer, when the public's attention is lower. I don't want to go into political reasons for a possible governor's shift, known political differences. What is more important is that this urgency is probably conditioned by a difficult budget situation, a situation in the economy; the macroeconomic situation in the country is desperate, and therefore the budget is not being filled properly. We have a major budget deficit, and that's the main reason, independent of those political reasons, which has led to this kind of urgency. The urgency is most said by this law in this form to the MPs, without the consultation of former Serbian government and the Ministry of Finance, and above all by the European Commission and the IMF, so it was necessary to approach the amendments of the law through the DOS-Reform amendment groups. These amendments, i.e. those amendments to the proposal, contain some of the provisions, some of the IMF and the European Commission's views. So, some of the views that are acceptable to the current government. For what purpose is the law written? It was written on purpose for an existing bad situation. The National Bank Act should be passed, but this law, as it is before you, was written for this bad situation, and above all in the budget. As such, this text of the law provides a potential opportunity for the National Bank of Serbia to be instrumentalised by the Serbian government. I'm not saying it's gonna happen for sure, but there's a potential possibility for that. This text of the law allows this. In my analysis of the law, I will first look back on the good side of the law. We believe that this law has good sides; this is something that is undeniable would be necessary in future laws, and certainly there will be, about the National Bank, that this matter is regulated in this way. First of all, the conditions for selecting governors and others under Article 28 of the Law - we believe that these conditions, which are above all, relate to the experience and expertise of the governor, the candidate for governor, that the future candidate for governor should be met. It is not even disputed that what has been given through the Social Democratic Party amendment, that this personality is not at the top of political organisations, although it is not too important. So we believe that the candidate for governor should be a proven banker, first of all, which has not been the case before in the previous government, and unfortunately neither in this one, and with great banking experience and personal integrity. Then, what's good in this bill is built in, it's a protection against conflict of interest through Article 29. It's something that should be applied to all state officials. In this law it's been applied, and that's good. One part of the law concerns the property of the National Bank of Serbia. The property must be state-owned, as the National Bank of Serbia is part of a state-owned apparatus and as such property of the National Bank of Serbia should be part of state property, and that is good. What is certainly not good now in practice, and through this bill will be sanctioned, namely, it is precisely regulated that the surplus revenue over the expenditures of the National Bank of Serbia following the allocation for a mandatory reserve that is regulated by this law goes into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, we believe that, I said, the National Bank of Serbia is part of a state apparatus, it is not a commercial business bank to freely dispose of its so-called profits, it is the profit of the state and it as such has to go into the budget, which does not mean, again, that other members of the law should hinder the independence of that executive body as the governor of the National Bank. Also good is something that has not been consistently applied to the practice of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the National Bank of Serbia, which is to equalise the status of employees in the National Bank of Serbia with employees in other state bodies. The current practice spoke the opposite. I agree with Minister Djelic that experts, above all from management, at the top of the National Bank of Serbia, should have good incomes that separate them from the reception of their colleagues, or people they work with in business banks, that is necessary. But, the whole administration and structure, we heard, the National Bank of Serbia has over 2,000 employees, the entire organisation, the whole system of jobs and what is most important and most interesting to the public, so personal incomes should be consistent with the incomes in other state bodies. It's a good thing this law is regulated. They are also good technical parts related to the National Bank's function, meaning a coin of money and so on. That would be the end of the good side of the law. These good sides of the law are acceptable to the DSS and we welcome it. What are the bad side of the law? Here there is a group of members whose intensity is a threat to the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. A second group of members, which is even more dangerous, create conditions for the deficit financing of the state by the National Bank of Serbia; this is an option that is not explicitly given by this law, but is not subject to this law or sanctioned. When we go according to the members of the law, these poor foreign laws, or those non-good members, are mostly focused on the initial chapters of the law. In Article 2, the hierarchy of the law is not well defined. We do not know, given that we have received the law on banks and other financial institutions under this law, this matter is controlled by the National Bank of Serbia in relation to commercial banks previously regulated by the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and is now being transferred to this special law. The explanation is that this will be changed more frequently, that the matter in the area of bank operations will be changed more frequently, and we believe that these rules must be given, and therefore this law, as a crown law, system law in the area of the national bank, business laws, this relationship must be defined so that Article 2(2) is not best defined. In Article 3(3), it is contradictory of Article 2(3). It says that the National Bank will support the implementation of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is contrary to the finding in Article 2 that the National Bank of Serbia will not receive or seek instructions from state authorities and institutions and other persons. There is already a certain possibility for governments to influence the independence of the National Bank. Articles 4 paragraphs 1 and 2 have given certain functions and are defined in one way, so to speak, the university-cadrian way, the difference between the dinar course regime and the dinar course policy is given, so the dinar course regime is determined with the government's consent, and the dinar course policy is independently run by the National Bank of Serbia. It was later tried to explain it through the DOS amendments, and there it is seen that the situation related... (President: Are you using the next ten minutes? Yes. It shows that the intensities of the legislators are not quite fair in the sense of maintaining this declared independence of the National Bank of Serbia, and the course of the dinar is something that is most interested in the public. Article 10 also regulates the co-operation of the National Bank of Serbia with the government. Certain co-operation should exist, both the Government and the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia are state bodies and, as such, they should co-operate, which is not controversial and should not be particularly stressed, so the member himself is unnecessary and again points to the government's intensity I was talking about. The most controversial is the second chapter of the law that defines the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia, primarily the advice of the National Bank of Serbia. The DSS proposed a series of amendments, related to the draft law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia in the Federal Parliament during 2002, and we tried to regulate this matter through the rights and duties of the control board. It is indisputable that a certain control is needed by the National Bank, but it is dangerous for that control to interfere with the operational work of the governor, i.e. the Vice Governor and the Monetary Committee of the National Bank. This bill of law and defining the National Bank's advice is exactly what was done. The composition, the way the National Bank Council's election and authority speak most of it. Article 23 regulates the selection of the National Bank's advice. It is not best solved, it is not clear in the law as they are elected, i.e. how members of the National Bank's council are resolved, or what happens when the mandate expires, or when one of the members of the Council, before the Council's term of office in general, has been resigned, and is also pointed out by people from the European Commission and the IMF. In Article 24, it may be the most controversial member of the entire law, the duties of the council are defined. We believe that these duties should not be Council duties, but the Assembly, the Monetary Committee, and some are given by law. The National Bank's financial plan should be adopted by the Assembly, as well as by an annual account; the single tariff at which the National Bank of Serbia charges compensation for the services performed -- the monetary committee, does not dispute that there has been abuse by the current leadership of the National Bank in this matter. The height of the governor's salary, the vice governor, I said earlier, the Law on Employees in State Authorities, so that's a matter already regulated and it doesn't need the National Bank's advice to interfere. Also, a list of jobs with special powers, criteria, etc. The election of an authorised auditor, as referred to in Article 24(6), may be conducted by the Assembly without a problem. It also shows the need for the National Bank of Serbia's advice. Article 36, Article 37, as well as Article 39, regulates the matter of budgetary relations with the National Bank of Serbia. It is the most sensitive issue related to the work of the National Bank of Serbia. For this matter, a recommendation, i.e. a member of the 101st European Treaty, which regulates the possibility of the operation of the National Bank on the primary and secondary market of securities issued by the State, is particularly important. According to us, it is necessary to explicitly regulate the issue, i.e. to prohibit the purchase of bonds issued by the National Bank of Serbia, while these securities operations are allowed to be carried out on the secondary market. It is a very dangerous thing, if it is not regulated well, along with Article 39, which has been said a lot, a member talking about the possibility of lending to the National Bank of Serbia to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's the most important question for today's situation. Article 39 provides for the possibility for the National Bank of Serbia to grant a 10% loan to the average three-year budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's not good, if you take the data for this year, where the amount of the budget is 319 billion dinars; 10% is somewhere around 32 billion dinars. This year's budget rebalancing, which we adopted at the end of March, is projected to allocate 6.8 billion dinars from domestic debt, which includes a debt to the National Bank of Serbia, according to 32 billion to 6.8. So, this member of the law provides for the possibility that Serbia's budget could be charged almost five times more than this draft budget, which certainly cannot be met, is foreseen. All this shows the tragic situation in which our economy and our budget are located and shows that budget rebalance is necessary. If we have all macroeconomic indicators that indicate that the monetary projection cannot be met by 2005, it is clear that it cannot be met, at least in the nominal part, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If the projected growth of 5% of the gross social product, projected at the beginning of 2003, cannot even reach 3% growth, which is spoken of by Prime Minister Zivkovic in April (the question is whether we will have any economic growth, industrial production in particular), then the question is whether the budget can remain within the current borders and whether the recession works as such? It is high time, and the DSS demands that the minister and the finance ministry propose budget rebalancing. This article is being given an amendment to the Social Democratic Party and it is good to reduce from 10% to 5% by loans from the National Bank of Serbia to the budget. We believe that funding of the Republic of Serbia's budget in this way should not be allowed at all, except for short-term financing that literally refers to the daily inequitableness of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, several more technical, less significant provisions of the law are not fully clear, above all in Article 41(3). Why should the Republic of Serbia be exempt from establishing the interest rates established by the National Bank for other entities? In Article 50, it is necessary to explicitly determine the independence of the National Bank of Serbia from the government in terms of the formation, use and management of foreign reserves. It's been given here, but it needs to be given explicitly. Foreign reserve management is one of the most important tasks of the National Bank of Serbia, and the National Bank of Serbia must have full independence. In Article 61(2), it is disputed not to pay compensation for tasks entrusted by the government to the National Bank of Serbia. Also, something important, which stands in the first members of the law, which is not good, is the question of who makes the motion to elect governors. The motion to elect a governor must be made by the President of the Republic. The issue is not best defined by the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. All this shows that this law is premature and that some other things have to be done, and that is also the question of the new constitution of Serbia, so that we can work this out properly. This is how we have the full interference of the executive government in the work of the National Bank. Also, the problem is with selecting a vice governor who is proposed by the council, and our opinion is that it should still be done by the governor, because it's part of his team. A special chapter of the law has been transposed into the law on banks and other financial organisations, which is also not good. We will vote against that law. I'll talk about it later. In short, this law should not have been so excluded from the existing National Bank Act. He has shortcomings that threaten, this time not the National Bank of Serbia, but the business banks. There are a number of legal problems and drawbacks related to the fact that the substance of the National Bank's relationship to business banks has been transferred from federal to the republican level, so it is not entirely clear legal protection of business banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32777	The word is from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32778	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to proceed to where I just left off. That procedure I was just talking about was just like, God forbid, in a state of war or in an extended state of emergency. However, on our political scene is war, and that is one war, I could say, until destruction, where real actors hide behind individuals, which is not good. Basically, it's a war between the G17 plus and the Democratic Party for the same electoral body. Since these are probably parties that will have to negotiate the next day, because they count on their ratings growing that way, they will be held together by the government, then, as the Serbs would say, they are "not snapping directly", but through individuals, and then they will be guilty by the governor and minister. That's the essence of this conflict, and about what? First, as I said, a struggle over the same electoral body - to which a cake will belong. The second reason, very important, is the control of the National Bank of Serbia and finance. What kind of control and how will the law make it possible, and this Parliament, unfortunately? The authorities of the National Bank of Serbia are the monetary committee, governor and advice of the National Bank. The monetary committee, look at the powers, has extremely strong powers. He determines monetary policy, the governor executes it, and the council should control and supervise it. However, look at the powers of that counsel. The council, unfortunately, has the authority of a weaker board of directors. What it means is that we will have a strong monetary board and a governor who will hold everything in his hands, and the council will be more fictional control. It's just the opposite of what we stand for and what turns out to be good in our immediate surroundings. You know that the advice of the National Bank of Slovenia, by number and by membership, is much stronger than the Government of Slovenia. That means they have extremely good control of the monetary system. Now, on the other hand, if the governor is so strong and with such powers, and why is he bothering us? Probably because it's not ours. How are we gonna set ours up? Earlier in his opening statement, the minister said it was not necessary to bid demagogy, mentioning the governor's election procedure, which is to be chosen by the Serbian Parliament's Finance Committee, or proposed by the Republic Assembly. Now a little bit about that demagogy bidding. It's been auctioned for a week in our press, and we already have four or five names. Two are, you know, Mickowski and Jovanovic from Nis. The minister said on TV last night that he has a candidate, though he did not say his name, and today in the press it is said to be Minister Kori Udovicki, even mentioned the name of Minister Pitic. Everyone knows everything, but not the proposer. I'm a member of the Finance Committee, and that's not being discussed, nor is there any information we have. We'll probably propose. As for the election, it will be chosen by this congregation, as some have said, a comfortable and stable majority. As that comfortable and stable majority works, we saw yesterday waiting four and a half hours for you to hit 126. That's the question now, I don't want to insinuate whether yesterday there might have been those who voted from abroad. We can't check the census, but the president can. That majority was also rewritten on the Finance Committee, just as we have bought MPs here. What does that mean? That with such an election procedure, the governor and advice of the National Bank of Serbia will be given to fully obedient political figures, who will seek what the Serbian government is asking for, or demands, no matter what the law says. He's got some good stuff. Some amendments were adopted today on the board, including one on Article 16 which says the governor is elected by the National Assembly, and the words "most of the votes of the total number of MPs" are added; so 126 votes will be required, and that's good. The second amendment, adopted, says "Article 28(1) behind the words "government members" add the words "political organisation officials". So, a political organization official won't be able to be bank governor, and that can be discussed. That could be good, and it doesn't have to be. There are such cases both in the world and in Europe, but these are the first and second amendments I mentioned to you, you will read and see who the promoters are. When you see who the promoters are, it will be clear to you the price of the governor's election, because they are satellites, or the rest of DOS-Reforms, which these services, or those few votes up to 126, are rapidly valorizing. There is, though, something and good in this law and a lot of it good. What his colleague did not know earlier, the government also adopted two good amendments, which is in Article 39, when it comes to loans owed by the Serbian Government to the National Bank of Serbia, instead of 10% will be able to raise up to 5% of the average budget. So half is reduced. And another amendment has been added, which is that the loan must be returned by the end of the year. So, you're secureing your return. I can praise that attempt, unlike anything else, but it cannot be discussed about this law that is being passed in this way, at this point, without starting with motive. So, the basic motive for this quick law-making, although it is said that he is a few steps behind, is simply to replace the governor. As for the replacement of governors, the US ambassador and some EU and OSCE representatives said they were not clear reasons for Dinkic's shift, because they consider it the most professional and most successful, voiced concern that this shift does not affect our country's economic stability. And finally, let me say that we in New Serbia will not vote for this law for the same reasons, for the same concern as the fear expressed by Governor Montgomery.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32779	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word has been given by MP Milos Lukic, an authorised representative of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32780	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on the National Bank of Serbia. It was logical to put this on the Assembly's agenda, however, it is not logical to do so in this way. By who knows which way we express one great regret, first of all to the professional services of the Assembly, or the President of the Assembly, because at a very short interval we are getting material and then we need to take a position on this material that is vital to this state and that we are taking this view from this speaker, and there is also not enough time for the amendment to react to the text offered. When it comes to the reasons for the appointment of this session in this way and for putting this point on the agenda, it is clear to everyone that what is happening and what is heard daily in the media is the reason number one, because this is how we are discussing this law. The conflict between the current governor of the National Bank and the finance minister, i.e. the government, has culminated in the previous days, and given the fact that the last few days and each other have been calling for support from abroad, it may have been directed to postpone this point for a few days, to hear that attitude, because maybe these world powers, either on the one hand or on the other of the Atlantic Ocean, are going to agree on our fate once and for all, and we won't have a situation this tense. In this situation, the people of Serbia are not at all a subject, nor is its fate important. All that is happening is how important and touching both the citizens' standards and their safety, the security of their assets and their roles with the banks. Maybe it was even smarter that we waited until we announced a TV duel, because the governor and the minister might get back together in public, so what we're doing right now doesn't really make any sense. When it comes to the authorities of the National Bank, we have a monetary committee that is provided for in Article 14 of this Act and that monetary committee has a number of functions. However, I have the impression that someone hurried when he listed these functions and that there was a total disorder, because it should have been quite different in nature. In our opinion, one should say that the monetary fund determines the dinar course regime, under two, to be an escontaneous rate, under three, the way in which foreign reserves are managed, then, the conditions and method of issuing short-term securities of value, the basis for calculating mandatory reserves, etc. The order that's given here in some way shows what's really more important for the promoter. For them are more important short-term charters than values, then operations on the market, etc. As far as the governor's advice is concerned, we have one principled objection here. We've had a heated debate these days about the Radio-Delefust Council, which counts nine members. Here we have a proposal that the advice of the National Bank of Serbia is actually five members. We ask that members of the council meet certain conditions, and one of the conditions is provided for in Article 28 paragraph 1 of point 2), that they cannot have actions, founding roles, or debt charters of the value of banks and other financial organisations, audit organisations, etc. Then we wonder who these experts are who work in banking, who are top-notch, and they don't have any of this. Are they proletaries or are they theorists? Anyone who is serious and who has long-standing experience is assumed to be in significant functions in banks, we know that many state banks are privatised in one way or another, it is not a topic now, but each of the prominent experts in this area probably has at least some of what it says, or this Article 28, which in point 1) says - that they can't be MPs, members of the government - should be used to eliminate anyone who would have thought to be interested in this function. Secondly, the number of members is extremely small and we believe that it should be nine members, yet it is advice, not some operating body. A few smart heads shouldn't bother anymore. However, it is likely that the experience with the advices formed in other areas has prompted the promoter to predict such a small number of members. It's probably going to be the people who won't cause any trouble to put everything in perspective and implement it. When it comes to the termination of office, we have one dilemma, in fact, for the governor, the vice governor and the employee is analoguely used by the Law on Labour in the State Authorities, and Article 30 says that by going to retirement, among other things, the term of office of Governor, Vice Governor, etc. is asked whether it is under this law or under the general conditions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. But since we don't have a government representative here, we don't have a proposing, we don't have anyone to talk to, we don't expect an answer. When it comes to the mandatory reserve, it is said that the National Bank of Serbia determines the level of the bank's mandatory reserve by prescribing the rate, etc. I would remind you, i.e. only those MPs working in the economy, who have shivered the consequences of such decisions in the previous period, that playing with the level of mandatory reserves can and can affect the situation in the economy. We've had a few times situation that, using this institute, in fact, pulls a large amount of money out of circulation and that the economy is suddenly deprived of craftsmanship. The governor, or the National Bank, increases mandatory reserves, banks withdraw money from circulation, and all short-term placements are withdrawn, the new one is not approved, which directly reflects the liquidity of the economy and the continuity of the recovery, namely the position of the workers and their safety. When it comes to the control function, we can put certain objections there, but in any case, the control function should exist, whether it is the control function that has so far been missing and whether it is one of the reasons why we are quick to pass this law, we are not completely clear. We believe that the very title is an answer to this question. As far as the National Bank's relationship with Skuština and the government is concerned, it's an interesting topic, and it's all written in the way it's supposed to be. It is the assembly that appoints, gives consent to the statutes, reports are submitted to it, and it all looks very nice, the government is almost gone. However, we have an obligation to say the minister must attend a meeting of the Board of Governors, and we believe that it has never happened before, nor that it will happen, so that it could be an alternative obligation, that it may not have to. Anyway, the way things are going, it looks like the finance minister is going to chair this council. Then we have a member of 86 who says that staff members of the council cannot manage their political functions. (President: Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?) Yes. It also seems acceptable, however, to ask another question -- how will these people come to those places and whether they will come past political definitions, or political will. It is certain that they are political figures, that as such they will come to these places and be in a position to decide very important matters. There is no doubt that this member is practically absurd, or inapplicable, because it is clear that these people will continue to behave according to their political definitions. It is certain that there are no personnel who will forget the gratitude of their political group, their own party or coalition that will offer them such a privilege, and of course the ruling majority and ruling coalition and parties in the ruling coalition will demand from their members a certain loyalty, a service. That's why we think this member is too high. When it comes to the National Bank, a few questions arise that affect anyone who does business, who deals with banks. I'm citing a few current problems. You know that economics has been forced to keep deposits with business banks for years. At the same time, however, the state does not guarantee these deposits. On the question, which I and my many colleagues, who just don't trust the business banks -- who vouches for the security of these deposits? The answer was mostly -- you people pick which banks you're going to bank with. I must point out that there are people I count myself in, who are not experts in this area, who are not qualified enough to assess which bank is good, which is not, which will suddenly disappear from these spaces tomorrow. I would especially point out from this place to banks with bombed foreign names, which are actually formed according to our regulations, which, apart from being founding strangers, have nothing more to do with the risk of investing, i.e. keeping deposits with these banks, is the same as others. Therefore, if the National Bank grants permits to work for banks and withdraws them, it would have to take responsibility for the deposits held by these banks in front of this country and guarantee the state for those deposits. It's a principled question behind which we stand very seriously and which we will continue to move on. Also, one coercion is carried out over the economy, which is when you have extra money available on your account, you don't actually have the option, it's forbidden to place them under commercial conditions, but you have to do it through business banks, which, by the way, never lose there, take a huge commission, make a huge profit, and yet, as I said before, take no risk, nor responsibility for the security of the placement. Another question is being implemented these days, and I don't want it to be misunderstood, but a few days ago I heard an amazing figure about $6.5 billion, if we had been in charge for the past two and a half years, and it would have been very clear that the finance minister and his close people from this pay phone address the MPs, because we as representatives of the people have the right to know that information. I will remind, by some assumption, that in this Serbia I do not believe that there are more than a million active, or active people who do. There are many employees in the non-economic sector, in consumption, but surely this imposition, calculate how much per capita it is, and how much it is on the head of the one who creates a new value, or who causes it. These are questions that should be asked, and only when we received those answers may the adoption of this law and the laws on banks and other financial organisations have been further. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, but I'd like to ask the presidency to forward these questions to the minister, because he may have mercy, so try to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32781	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32782	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the environment that preceded the release of this law in the procedure does not fit the real need for the law to be passed now and as proposed, nor does it correspond to the procedure and practice that should exist in this, or in any other parliament. The colleagues have already talked here about the call for this session on Saturday being left before the MP offices, that we received material on Monday, that it was obviously all done that MPs did not get to know the law properly and that they could not answer the amendment to the law in accordance with their understanding of such an important law as the National Bank Law. That's no exception here. It is a practice here, that at the weekend, extensive bill proposals are being submitted, that an emergency procedure is being removed from certain draft laws, specifically with customs laws, to prevent MPs from doing what their basic business here is compared to those they represent. The second important moment is the climate created in the public does not serve either the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the current governor. It is almost impossible to bring into some normal correlation what the finance minister and current governor, Mr Dinkic, say. Speaking of Mr. Dinkic, let me say that it's a bad thing to do, and hope for good, it's not possible. The way he entered the National Bank of Serbia, along with the assistance of long pipes, which do not resemble such an institution as the National Bank, was initially disqualified and characterised by him as a man who would, for the sake of doing such a job as the Governor of the National Bank, be willing to do anything, regardless of normal principles, to one normal civil, professional, human and political morality. It is distasteful to read in the press about dealing with key actors in another in a series of affairs in Serbia, and when something like that happens then it would be good for both of them to resign. But it is a story for those whose support Mr Dinkic was governor and now for those with whose support someone else will become governor. What are the actual conditions in which we talk about the National Bank Act? These are the 3.29 billion-euro foreign reserves, of which more than 50% are from exchanges. This is the part of the savings that is in a voluntary way, through foreign banks, which meet the formal condition that with a deposit of five million euros they can be domestic banks in our country, practically according to Mr. Vesenovic's claim, so your man is a couple of excellants, who are pumping this money abroad, and with that money provide very favourable credits to buy in Serbia in our factory's tenders and auctions, our businesses, at prices that are practically baffled, and according to the conditions of unfair competition, because interest on these loans is lower than what can be obtained in our country for similar things. I would especially like to thank Mr Krasic here, who said that the previous law provided the consent of the International Monetary Fund. Mr Djelic said that for this occasion the agreement was also provided. However, he said the IMF found the law correct. For us as MPs, it would be good if the IMF had come to the assessment that for us as a country the law is optimal. There is a big difference between correct and optimal compared to set criteria. We have heard several times today in the opening statement that the model of the Croatian National Bank and the law on the Croatian National Bank is something that is most like what we are talking about here today. I would say that the law on the National Bank of Croatia is an exception to countries in transition and that other countries have different solutions to this law, that I do not share that opinion and that the most important thing is what the magazine "Finance" says about the governor of a bank, because for the political needs of various magazines in the world can give various qualifications. I remind you that there is a big and important lobby that has been promoting the Croatian thing for many years in a way that simply falls into the eyes, from the Eurovision Song to this governor's assessment. Therefore, I would not be able to accept that the relevant assessment given by the Financial magazine is in terms of the functioning of a national bank and its governor. Procedurally, it really doesn't make sense to talk about the law without the presence of the finance minister and the economy and without any of his associates. There's no chairman of the Finance Committee in the O.R. Turns out we're talking to each other, these hardworking people who keep stenographic notes to the press, if they're interested in what we're talking about. How is it possible that someone who is a minister accepts the proposed amendments and that a correct comment on what the MPs are saying here, if he has not honored them to listen to them and to communicate with them in a civilized manner that has been accepted everywhere in parliament as normal. The law can be commented on from various angles. I would say, Mr Stamenkovic also spoke of it, when the Assembly elects, as is the case with the Government or the Governor, then it is not logical, and it is two private bodies, to say lawyers, that the government, and in particular the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has even in the same sense the authority of control over the National Bank of Serbia. We heard in the public stage Mr. Celic, one of Mr. Dinkic's mistakes, which is still the governor, is that he did not allow one budgetary problem to be overcome in a way that practically covers the deficit in the form of temporal money for 20 days, until international financial institutions approve the loan. That's what we heard, that in a harsh form of grudge today, we heard in the opening statement that a new law is being passed and that a new governor will be elected, so that this thing doesn't happen. The appearance of temporal money is always expansion, read inflation, so if the criteria were short before Mr. Djelic was that it was a serious grudge to Mr. Dinkic, then I don't understand how today, as an important argument, he used something that absolutely doesn't look like what he was talking about the day before.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32783	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32784	No, I don't. Let me just have one more sentence. We've submitted 25 amendments. The government accepted one. Depending on how the debate continues and how the amendments continue to be adopted, the SPS MPs will agree on this and make a statement at the end when we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32785	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32786	Gentlemen, for us, the adoption of the law on the National Bank of Serbia is a fundamental and conceptual issue, so the economic policy of the state, monetary policy, currency stability, and ultimately, the price stability in the state, not the personal question, how these days this issue is presented in the media and presented as a conflict of political views of individuals, rather than the fundamental concept that we want to make for the National Bank of Serbia. As far as the National Bank Act is concerned, we have proposed a number of amendments. I must say, these are fundamental amendments that significantly alter the concept of the proposed law. I'd go in a row. At the very beginning of the law, in Article 2, I think a fundamental mistake has been made. Two things are being chased here: what is the economic policy of the state, i.e. the government and this Parliament in a certain year, so we talk about price stability, that is, price stability, there are mixed concepts, because we need to talk primarily about currency stability, currency stability and financial discipline, not price stability. This is the task of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the competent inspection and inspection bodies. Furthermore, I think that when we talk about important issues about this law, we need to mention a few essential things. For us, the organisation and work of the National Bank of Serbia is essential. Here are the three bodies proposed in the National Bank of Serbia: the monetary committee, governor and council of the National Bank of Serbia. We've suggested that the monetary committee be deleted as a core authority, and I'll tell you what it is. The monetary committee consists only of the governor and his fellow officers, or deputies, or vice governors, as proposed here. So it's a college of the competent state authority, which will discuss important issues on a daily basis. There's a fundamental difference here. What are the powers of the monetary committee? So the essence of the operation of the National Bank of Serbia is contained in the powers of the monetary committee. I think that there are a few important things that are being marred here when we refer to the experiences of the republics that were formerly part of Yugoslavia, and often talk about Croatia and Slovenia. We haven't used the experiences they have, so we're calling for experience, and we're eliminating class. If we are talking about the National Bank of Slovenia, it is clear there that the National Bank Council is an organ that has much wider powers, essential powers in the system of functioning and leading the credit-money policy of the state. So it's a wider organ with a more numerous composition and a lot of experts. I must say, he accounts for the National Assembly. The monetary committee doesn't account for anyone. So, anyone here can convince me that I'm wrong, because apparently the monetary committee itself concludes, brings it itself, and the advice of the National Bank of Serbia has been absolutely executed, I would say, parallel powers, has the form of a simple board of directors. So he didn't cross the function of any board of directors in the Republic of Serbia. This means that on a proposal from the governor, he can adopt a final bill, set a salary for the governor, deputies and nothing beyond that, to determine the income of the National Bank of Serbia when it comes to the percentage taken in the transport of money, and that is the end. It's all on the monetary committee. Is there a parallel function going on? It doesn't exist, because this congregation will only be informed. So, she and her bodies, so well placed in the law, will be informed of what the monetary committee was doing. Whether it's going to write or not, it's a matter of the monetary committee. So, there is no fundamental control over all of this, and I'm not saying there is no control of the government of the Republic of Serbia about what they are and what's going on. First of all, in the dinar course regime, in exchange-debates, in buying out foreign exchanges and not talking about credit policy in this country; then, if we sit here every December and have a debate on what an economic policy of a state is and we adopt the budget behind it, it is even going further that no instructions to the National Bank of Serbia is allowed by any authority, and the opening exposé of the prime minister, which speaks of the economic policy of a state, cannot be made, an important detail for the National Bank, or for this monetary committee, in which the governor and his subordinates are sitting, they are absolutely subordinated to him, because he suggests they are also elected on his proposal. So this isn't about the politics of a government at this point, this is about the essence, if we want to adopt a fundamental law, which will last on the political scene of Serbia, and we don't have it. I must say, for our remarks, when we talked about it, the esteemed had no hearing at all, because this is a fundamental and conceptual matter. There is no control of the monetary committee. They are absolutely authorized to operate by law. Whether to write the minutes from the session they were working on, to conclude, to bring, that is a very discussional question. So, whether or not they will, that's an empty question. Furthermore, we will likely have an opportunity to discuss another topic behind this adoption, which is the appointment of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. When it comes to the appointment of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, it is all stated here, but no experience has been mentioned. So, some expert, some advisor, I don't know what, but without working out, he could be appointed governor of the National Bank. We have been bile here for several years about the fact that civil servants, for example, financial officers or some executives, head of income management, heads of state authorities, must have at least three years or more of work experience, even eight years of work experience. I don't know what's meant by the promoter, but obviously when the point is that he's a scientific advisor to an institute, then anyone can make their proposal in any way, not to comment and say, we'll take care of that too. And we know how the former governor got in. His argument was a weapon. I don't know what's gonna happen next. So the one chosen, some of the next ones will be able to use it again as an argument. We need to prescribe some level of expertise, and then we said about the conflict, speaking of conflict of interest, so this question can be interpreted in another way. It's okay, but find a man in Serbia, because there's a privatisation process in progress, and there's no action listed, which has been involved in some serious business, whether he was a director, a manager or an expert in the banking sector, which has no stock listed anywhere. What's he gonna do at that moment, sell to who? They'll sell it to a woman or children. We forbade a large number of experts in this area to compete, or to be competitors in this place, it was a governor, deputy or member of any council. I have a few more very important things to say. I think they can help if we understand each other about the concept and the application of this law. I'll use the other ten minutes. Nowhere in this law has a single sentence, nor is there an exposé of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is nothing about what foreign banks are doing. So, according to existing legislation, they applied to want to have their own bank here, they gave five million dollars and they got approval from the National Bank of Serbia, or the National Bank of Yugoslavia, we don't still have the National Bank of Serbia, so they got approval that they can have their own bank here. That's not at all controversial, either, but what are these banks doing here? These banks here have the savings roles of citizens and have at their disposal, so, the company's economic potential and have in their accounts the funds of the Serbian economy that are being placed, and the public fact and the correct fact that they are stationed here in our economy is almost nothing. So we don't have real placements, we have data that funds travel abroad, and then they're reclassified here in Serbia, say, in the case of Mercator, and that domestic companies dealing with the same business can only get those funds here for interest from 11% to 13%, and these funds are being placed through Austria or Germany here by 6%. There are two arches. If that same bank here says - I can't give more money, because there's a crisis here, it's not a safe market, and then it goes on the outside, and it's the same money that's 6%, so what's this about? This is about the classic financing of an import lobby that definitely controls the Serbian economy. Now I'd like to look back on a few things, talk about that foreign reserve story. The foreign reserve structure constantly mentions the figure, earlier on it was 2,800, and the last figure that's been talked about is three billion and 300 million dollars or euros, I think it's dollars, it's probably one of the mistakes, if they were euro, it'd probably be more than 150 to 200 million euros, but what's there is, it's the policy of an existing governor who makes his own decisions and doesn't account for anyone. Here it is proposed that the same policy continue. I'm talking about the quality of those reserves. So we have here a legacy from the king, through Tito from this period of so-called crisis 10-12 years, expensive funds, whether it's gold bars or some other means, of three billion and 300 million. The only healthy exchange reserve is an export dollar or a euro. Please, we've had economic indicators since 2000, so here we go. Our exports are constantly dropping, the imbalance in foreign trade is huge, it grows year after year. Last year there were two billion and 860 million, last year there were four billion and 200, and our total foreign trade exchange last year was eight billion and 200 million, so we had a loss in the foreign trade trade of about four billion. So I can't talk about quality foreign reserves, but it's the legacy of these so-called communist, post-Communist and I don't know all those years, even from the period of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, some foreign reserves or foreign exchange bases are being drawn. Therefore, the only healthy tissue in all of this is the amount. What does the data tell us, say, that last year Slovenia had an external trade swap of $18.5 billion and made a surplus of $150 million? Although the Serbian market is five times larger than the Slovenian market, although the Serbian market has trade marks and Slovenia has no 10-15 known brands, and Serbia can offer over 200 to 300 quality brands at this time in the world market, I am not talking about their production process. There's this weakness. So we don't have a credit policy for business banks. Our economic activity goes down, then our employment goes down, then budget revenues drop, budget realisation goes down. At this point, it's about 31 to 35%, and we've already entered the second half of the year. These days, the data came out, it's official data from the government and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, that we are losing economic activity at this point, that our losses in foreign trade are even greater. Then we come into a situation, when we adopt a bill like this without government control, Parliament, that our situation in the state economy will become more difficult and more difficult. You can't talk about a personal issue here or a conflict of two concepts or two political options. This is about the state of the nation, the state of the economy, the employment of young generations, much bigger issues, and they are being broken through this bill. Therefore, I think that what we have proposed in the amendments had full meaning and full value and lost the rhetorical value of the need for individuals to declare themselves, already has the essential capital and capacity for some future times, regardless of who was in power and who was in the situation of making decisions and doing public affairs in the National Bank or in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think the good part of the law still shows one courting position for the National Bank of Serbia, the National Bank of Yugoslavia. I have to say, what he now calls himself is the National Bank of Serbia, it's a classic forgery. In order for someone to make a seal and give themselves the right to have that seal, he has to have a solution. I don't know how it happened and who gave what to whom, without talking about a bill containing the name of the National Bank of Serbia. That's very disputable. If we weren't the opposition, if we were the other opposition now, we'd probably bid on it every day and talk about all the bells. Now there's something I'd like to say about trade business. We have a system of exchange operations and infiltrated 600-700 exchanges by the National Bank of Serbia. In one part, I can assess it positively, but I can't go to the end, because these collected funds are somewhere recorded and controlled. So they're not in function of this economy. It's about foreign bank exchanges in our area. Is the exporting of that money controlled or not? This isn't about any foreign banks. In my view, these are to a maximum extent either branches or business units of foreign banks in Serbia, because there is no guarantee of any foreign bank, none of the foreign banks, for the business of their branches, or for the users of their name in the Serbian area. So we can't control the spilling of foreign efficacy from here, because citizens trade domestic money and efficiency. That market exists and it's effective. What happens to the role of those funds here? Well, it is known that all national banks, and in this law there is nothing, make sure when it comes to foreign banks on their territory that they have an obligation to re-plain domestic savings in the domestic economy. We're the only ones with nothing. Let us use models from the countries of the European Union, which we are constantly calling upon. If that's 18% in one Germany, in France 28, then the Socite Genal must be re-placing the funds on the same criteria as in the country from which the bank originated. Therefore, our position on this law will depend solely on the acceptance of these essential and conceptive remarks. Otherwise, we won't support a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32787	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a debate according to the application for a word in a joint principled search on the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and amending the Banks Act. Lazar Marjanski, the first registered speaker, followed by the MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two years ago our finance minister spoke about the National Bank of Yugoslavia and said that the new law to be made takes two years to work, and that the governor of the National Bank is more than the president of the state. He set the example that the Governor of the American Bank is the financial president of the state and is stronger, at the time, than Clinton. He explained, when the governor comes to defend the budget and proposes, he comes with 25 to 30 of his associates and they explain everything. As far as I can tell, there's no governor here. We don't have a minister. There's only Sinisha, and he'll remember everything and pass it on. A few days ago, Minister Djelic said: "Two of the most hated men should be and are governor of the National Bank and Minister of Finance, because both hold the register, save and do not give inflation and the collapse of the state." I trust him, I just don't know where he is today, and why isn't he here today, when he proposes a very important law? I agree with him that supervision of banks should be. Must be bank control. The Vojvodina Bank of Novi Sad says what's happening to them. Namely, they are forced to transfer their claims to company actions, especially agricultural enterprises. Will this law allow the Vojvodina Bank to be sold to a foreign bank most likely? All our territory that is in Vojvodina, the Vojvodjanska Banka has the highest share in agriculture, will be sold together with the Vojvodjanska Banka. It's a legal and easy way to sell the state. I have one question - who allowed Dinkic to arm our assets in a bank in England? That's our foreign reserve, that's the stability of the state. And the second question is, do we really have that foreign reserve? In order to create a foreign reserve, we need to have more exports than imports, and Minister Djelic said -- we should have six or seven times more exports than imports. Of course it might be some kind of foreign reserve that was put in storage. I feel free to say about this pay phone, no Sloba Radulovic, no Kostic, unfortunately the two of them together with Delta Bank and the Commercial Bank are the graves of our economy, our economy. Everything and everything they import, at cheap and low prices, knocks down every price possible. The commercial bank has no frame at all, and we know who created it. It was created by Sloba Milosevic. All the militia and military money was in the Commercial Bank. The Delta Bank is also Mira Markovic, and now these are two banks that are very important. But in any case, one thing that is not good for us or for this country or for the National Bank of Serbia to be created is not elegant and it is not hygienic that two of the largest men, financial experts, so each other's mud. I'll just read a few headlines from the paper. According to Mr Dinkic, Djelic is the biggest schemer in the government, so he sets an example, which is on TV Novi Sad. When one of our members was to be placed in the IMF, Montenegrins agreed to be from Serbia, then Djelic told Montenegrins behind the back: "Why don't you be"? And he goes to Zivkovic and says the Montenegrins are categorical to be them. Then Zivkovic calls Dinkic and says, "Djelic said it is categorical that they must be Montenegrins." And then, Dinkic said, the thing was saved by Mr Vlahovic saying it wasn't the government's position. That was on TV. He also said, on that television, that 20 people get money behind their backs, that Mihajlovic holds half the government in his hands, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32789	The People's MP Radojko Petric has the word, and after him is the MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32790	The President-in-Office, respected presidency, respected MPs, although a two-point debate on the agenda is united, I will only talk about the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia. Due to the reconstruction of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia into the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and on the basis of the Community Constitutional Charter, it is normal to pass a law on the National Bank of Serbia. However, although it is a system law, which regulates the work of the central monetary government, the law important for the country's overall financial stability, the process of putting it on the agenda and consideration in this assembly is indeed extremely inappropriate. There is really no rational explanation or justification for the passing of such a significant law by emergency procedure. This has already been pointed out by previous debaters, so I won't particularly stick to the issue. However, regardless of how this law is passed, it should be ensured that its implementation maintains monetary stability, price stability and the stability of the dinar course. The strategic issue is preserving the value and stability of the domestic currency. On the side of disagreement between the Government, some DOS parties and the current governor, the National Bank Act is needed by this country. Of course, the proposal could and should have been significantly better. The creation and implementation of a successful monetary policy is a complex and responsible business. For the normal functioning of one country's economic life, it is important to ensure monetary balance, monetary stability, and this implies a harmonised relationship between money and goods in transport. The central bank and the government must cooperate, but each one in its own domain should also be independent. The main task of the National Bank of Serbia is to maintain price stability. However, the National Bank, as a central bank, must also support the government's economic policy. In support of the government's economic policy, the bank's primary objective, maintaining stability and price, should not be violated. The National Bank's task also involves taking measures to create conditions for economic growth. It's a mistake to understand that the National Bank only needs to control inflation. She must also care about the growth of production, that she is working to remove a series of illogicalities that are present with us now. How do you explain the situation that domestic prices are rising and imports are falling? How long will bought-out foreign exchanges from poor citizens be spent on importing everything and everything instead of development? Not to mention where they're held as a deposit of that exchange, in which banks or countries, etc. Cash participation in the monetary mass in Serbia remains 40%. When's the cash's share going down, and it's going to trim the wings of the gray economy? Of course, that's where we need a response from the National Bank. The participation of dinar savings in the total monetary mass remains only 4%. It would be normal if that participation was at least over 20%. Apparently, the measures taken did not convince citizens to gain more significant trust in banks. In particular, there could be critical talk about excessive market liberalisation and poor extra-carinal protection, often introduced by the world's most developed member states of the World Trade Organisation, and this does not conflict with the principles of the World Trade Organisation. Industrial production is dropping, and trade deficits are growing. Isn't this an obligation and isn't it giving room to question the regularity of the current policy-making of the currency course of the dinar. The monetary sovereignty of the National Bank does not mean full independence from the government's views in achieving certain economic objectives. It should be borne in mind that the monetary sovereignty of the National Bank is limited by membership in certain international financial organisations, such as the IMF and the World Bank. It is understood that their rules must be accepted and implemented by us. At least there is a consensus for all political parties, both ruling and opposition. However, there are many provisions in the proposal for this law that can and should be regulated in a better, more acceptable way, with full respect for world practice and adopted international standards. More than 20 amendments have been proposed by the SPS MPs in the first place. I just want to point out some questions. Articles 4, 14 and 43 of the same text stipulates that the National Bank of Serbia determines the dinar course regime with the government's consent and that it independently conducts the policies of the dinar course. It is okay that the National Bank undertakes, with the consent of the Government, to determine the dinar course regime, but thus excludes the independence of conducting a dinar course policy by the National Bank and that part of the provisions should be deleted. It is also too high to repeat the same text in three members. On the other hand, it is too high a member 73 to form a Strategic Council for the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia. This would already hamper the autonomy of the National Bank, and that provision should therefore be deleted. The borrowing of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia was regulated in Articles 39 and 48. For the borrowing of the National Bank with a repayment deadline of more than a year, even when it comes to the IMF, it is logical for the Government to be consulted and that should be foreseen in Article 48. Taking into account all the complexity and scope of the transactions carried out through the National Bank, I think it is necessary that the National Bank, apart from governors and vice governors, has a deputy governor. Strange, at least for me, today's position by Minister Djelic is that the deputy governor's question is overcome. Why is there a minister, a deputy and an assistant at the head of every ministry? Isn't it an acceptable analogy that there's a governor of the National Bank, deputy governor and vice governors in the bank? Articles 23 and 25 need to make changes so that the National Bank Council has seven members and that full decisions can be made with four votes "yes", not with two votes, as the government has suggested. It is really improvising the work of the Council if two members can make a decision to have it applied in practice. Article 71 should cut deadlines for submitting the report on monetary policy and on business for the previous year until 30 March of the current year, as well as a report on the situation in the country's banking and overall financial system by 30 May, not just 30 September. If we were not to cut deadlines, it would be really pointless to conduct such current issues only in October or November of the current year for the previous year. Because if a deadline is left until September 30th, then in October and November, something that was a year ago should be discussed, and it cannot be applied that some disproportionateities would eventually be removed in the current year. Why did the promoter give up his proposal to regulate the lending of lombard loans? Modern banks in the world have regulated the issue of lending to stock-based banks -- on the basis of lombards, short-term loans, it was originally in the proposal, and why the promoter gave up, there is no explanation anywhere. Not to list any further objections, as Members of the Socialist Party will speak more about it in particular. I hope that certain proposals submitted by SPS MPs in the form of amendments will be accepted and that the proposed law will be improved and accepted, i.e. in the interest of all citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32791	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, followed by MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32792	Mrs. Comic, honourable MPs, I have no inspiration to speak in an O.R. where there is no quorum. I think it would be very correct to fight here, since there's obviously no quorum in this room and I think it's pointless to talk when no one from the Treasury is here. But, come on, while it is, let's keep it at least recorded in the stenographic notes, what is the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia when it comes to the proposal for this law on the National Bank of Serbia. First, we cannot help but interfere with the day-to-day policy and the fact that one of Serbia's most fierce political conflicts is at the political stage, the conflict between the governors of the National Bank and the finance minister. After those, minor love views on election campaign spots of Miroljub Labus, there is evidence that in Serbia there is a fine line between love and hate, which is in Serbia, Malta, a godfather's quarrel. Here you can see what kind of atmosphere we are making one of the very important laws, especially when we take into account today's work of our Assembly, when we consider today's system law, the law on the financing of political parties, and that it is within these laws, at the time of adoption and debate over these laws, when we have the simple fact that Mr Djelic is not sitting here to prepare for a conflict with Governor Dinkic. I think it's unfair to the Serbian citizenship. According to us MPs more or less, we will already declare ourselves by our vote. When it comes to the very text of the law, we find in it a series of shortcomings and contradictions. We wonder -- what authority, in the area of law and finance, wrote this text. In the federal government, the previous one was the monetary policy sector. In our Republic government, there is no monetary policy sector, and we ask ourselves, as MPs, who wrote the law. We know it wasn't written by the National Bank of Serbia, we know that they didn't engage at any point in writing this proposal. So someone from the finance department wrote this bill. However, on my question to the Finance Committee, I referred this question to Minister Djelic -- who wrote this law, gave no answer. Then, when we look at the text of the bill, we will see that basically, first of all, there is a proper relationship of the National Bank of Serbia towards the Republic government and vice versa. What we cannot resist as a basic impression, it is about the independence on which Minister Djelic insists there is no speech. The independence has not been secured, although several declarative members insist on it. See Article 2, the last position, it is written - The National Bank of Serbia will not receive or request instructions from state authorities and other persons in the performance of its functions. Greatly written, it means a lot, so we're going towards that independence. Already in the next Article 3, after the type declaration - the main goal is to achieve and maintain price stability and financial stability, we already have contradictions. It says - The National Bank, without questioning the achievement of its primary goal, will support the implementation of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, operating in accordance with the principles of market economy. Again in Article 4, it says - determines the dinar course regime with the government's consent and independently conducts a dinar course policy. Article 10. - The National Bank of Serbia is working together with the government and other state bodies in its capacity to take measures to improve and co-operate. First of all, we ask ourselves, do we even need a member like this and ask again, who wrote this bill? In section - National Bank Authorities, Article 12, after that we have a section related to the authorities of the National Bank and, of course, we come to the most important authority of the Bank, I mean the Governor, and we come to this current conflict between the Governor and the Minister and one principle issue - who proposes the Governor of the National Bank? The idea of the Democratic Party of Serbia, not only because we believe it to be the best and most relevant at the moment for our country, for our society, but because it is also the best experience from developed democratic countries of the world, is that the governor proposes the President of the Republic. The idea does not rest on our day policy and the fact that a committee, such as the Finance Committee, does not reflect the state of parliament, but that parliament itself does not reflect what voters said in December 2000, but rather recaptures or displays one, we can use the word the finance minister often mentions, which is "specialisation of Serbia". It's something we can't notice, and giving such information to a committee that is primarily a political body, and not a professional body, we think is extremely inappropriate. That means our proposal was for the governor to be proposed by the President of the Republic. Also, one reason they will not vote for this law is the competence of the National Bank of Serbia's council. We believe it should be reduced to the extent that certain competencies of the National Bank of Yugoslavia's Supervisory Board are within the federal law of a year ago. We believe that this is a more appropriate way for this relationship between them and the Republic government, because the council will be the authority of the republican authorities, such as these unfortunate broadcasting and these other advices that we have had the opportunity to vote in this assembly. So, this council shows more than a subordinate relationship between the National Bank of Serbia and the Republic Government than the independence of this institution, and that is one reason why we will not vote for this law. Of course, in Article 39, not to reduce, as foreseen by the amendment accepted by the Republic Government to 5%, as far as possible from the National Bank's reserve to lend to the deficiting republican budget, but to abolish, delete that member, because in principle the DSSza policy where the state primarily creates an economic environment, and in no way participates in it as an important factor, except in creation. Article 43 is again an example of a very bad text. "The National Bank of Serbia, with the government's consent, determines the dinar course regime," and then the next position in the same article: "The National Bank of Serbia independently leads the policy of the dinar course." Is there anything like this supposed to be written down? All in all, a bad legal proposal is burdened by a strong struggle between the prime minister and the minister. We'll watch the duel tonight. It is unfortunate for our Serbia, the elections are inevitable and I ask that we no longer receive such proposals, and when we get them and when we want to correct them, I think it is minimal that we have here a minister to whom we can address and try to fix these projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32793	The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32794	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Djelic obviously insults this assembly by his lack of presence, because every right to withdraw obligations, as the chairman tends to say, so we should stop working until he chooses to come here and talk to him for a while. It's probably more important for him to do TV with Dinkic than this law, so he's getting ready. Okay, what a minister like that and a government. Now it's about one law on the National Bank of Serbia, a law that will create monetary policy, payment traffic, a course of dinars, financial flows in the country. It would be no big deal if such a law were conducted if there was no moment when the current governor of the National Bank of Serbia and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia were always arguing about some responsibility, abuses and the like. The current governor of the National Bank of Serbia called himself governor in the events of the October DOS revolution violently entered the National Bank, the then National Bank of Yugoslavia, and immediately began to implement a programme that was dictated on the side. The fact that the program was dictated on the side and that this fact is absolutely accurate proves to us some of its actions, which is the destruction of domestic banking that was in social, to say in state property. Just remember how Mr Dinkic closed the Slavijabanks, smaller banks that were regional district territorial organisations, and even dared to close the Post Office at one point. It's probably when someone told him -- wait, wait, it's owned by the government of the Republic of Serbia, you can't just shut it down like that. He receded at that point, but the goal of all of this is that on one market, which was covered by such banks, a vacuum is created and that certain domestic banks are involved in such a market, later on, we will talk about them, and also foreign business banks, whose founders are just foreign banks, but they do not recognise any obligations of their founders with these banks currently on the market, except to buy out our foreign assets and transfer to the accounts of their foreign founders. When it comes to domestic banks, I think their crucial influence was to abolish the payment traffic run by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, or the National Bank of Serbia, and that was welcomed by all of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This was welcomed by Mr Djelic, who even said that one such payment traffic, which is modern, would be significantly cheaper, and here for six and more months, such payment traffic is being conducted and I can say that not only is it not cheaper but it is more expensive, because the business banks they are carrying out have to pay for each transaction to the National Bank of Serbia and plus the part that covers their costs, so now the payment turnover is three, four or five times more expensive than it was before and that is certainly so, instead of the cheaper promised. The Delta Bank insisted on that. We all know who owns Delta Bank or Delta Holding, Mr. Miskovic. We all know that the money he's turning, that his origin is either from tobacco smuggling or from oil smuggling and oil derivatives. It means that the money belongs to Stanko Subotic, the Canetoo Frog. And there at some point was aggressive, but it wasn't her original intention, which is the Cepter bank owned by Milan Jankovic or Philip Cepter, as he prefers to call himself. These were some of the reasons why this government and the then and present governor, Mladjan Dinkicsuing domestic banking, could exist on the domestic market. With certainty, I can now say that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law is Dinkic's shift and in any case the loss of support for foreign financial structures that you have had so far, because of the chaos you've made in the country over the financing. Now we come to a public conflict and who's to blame. Is it the government of the Republic of Serbia or Mladjan Dinkic? It's my fault they're both the same. They're just trying to avoid responsibility through some political promotions to favor their parties that they represent. In any case, this law will have positive and negative consequences. It is positive that Dinkic will finally be removed from the seat of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and it is negative because it will be chosen according to that people's one -- he is dismounting Kurt to ride Murt.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32795	The People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic has the word, and after him the Messenger of the people Dusan Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32796	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by number and letters of 46 present here in this high house. That's enough of who it's from, and it's a lot. It could be said right away - nothing new in Serbia. Minister Djelic has his face on. I'd like to speak to Mr. Djelic, but he's probably practicing with Mr. Dinkic some new rocking song for a joint performance at tonight's TV duel, something like he did after October 5th. Do you remember when Mr Djelic proposed a financial law in this high house without going through an emergency procedure? Since then, for these two and a half years, all financial laws, regardless of whether it is a sales tax or an amendment to the Transport Tax Act, relating to the release of the press from payment obligation or a system law, such as this law on the National Bank of Serbia. It's not until the law comes to order. It's good, Dragos, that you've established and you know the agenda. That's good, that's enough for a start. I would accept that an emergency procedure is related to the speed of the reform, so that it is not four times so far, and Dragos will help me understand whether he is talking to you, that deadlines are planned and that the law in the federal parliament is not passed, only that Dinkic is not replaced at the end of December of last year. A similar law is now passed in this high republican home, with the same goal, the revolution continues to swallow its children, and with changes to this law and its first fighters. As Dinkic entered the People's Bank of Yugoslavia with long pipes and who suggested him to be governor, we all know that, and Mr Dinkic has become the largest undertaker of Serbian banking, and whoever digs another pit is the time to fall into it himself. And in order to hide somewhat the intentions of the governor's shift and the conditions and political engagement, you did not accept the IMF's alleged objections, and the experts in the government did not do so, but through the skillful maneuver of the amendments to the MPs, which the Prime Minister also suggested at the press conference, and Mr Toma Panajotovic realised through the amendments and proposed amendments the Committee accepted. Well done, Tomo. And to pack everything, the president of the DOS-Reform parliamentary group has also helped with an amendment to shorten the time limit for entry into force of this law. Maybe all of this could have been done overnight, and don't forget about that folk, until it's dead, and the other one is light. You yourself have cooked and tried it yourself, because indeed the greatest pity is that one well-prepared text of the law of the most significant laws you do not present, so you are engaged in personal disputes. What kind of yours is expected on the Finance Committee, when the governor is proposed, if she is a woman, in your custom, she will be governor, governor or perhaps governess, I don't know how you're going to propose to the lady who is the governor's proposal, and that's expected by the end of July. That means I got your attention and you're not sleeping anymore. So please Mrs. Comic, I'm talking about the law positively. You don't sleep, but I also woke up these MPs of yours here. We're all your MPs. Given that it is a solid legal project with hundreds of members, the SPS parliamentary group proposed to improve the text in three directions: introducing deputy governors, eradicating strategic councils as unnecessary and clear defining conditions for the governor, the independence of the National Bank and links with the Government, the Assembly and other bodies. The SPS parliamentary group considers it justified to prescribe the co-ordination of the government and the central financial institution, which is inevitable in this situation during the transition period, which cannot be considered a threat to the independence of the National Bank of Serbia. Well, I guess they have a common goal, which is market economy, monetary policy, course regime policy, which includes the course regime itself, price stability, and so it doesn't happen as in the previous period -- governor in the cuneiform, and the government in the board. It is a dinar, and this is very important for you to know, the official monetary unit of the Republic of Serbia, and it is foreseen in Article 53; whether Dinar will remain as an association to a dinar or not, or it will remain merely the wish of her promoter, Mr Dinkic. Gentlemen, when you're making laws, and you've already proposed some, always remember Article 54, all of the money obligations in the business done in the Republic of Serbia between businesses, other domestic legal entities and citizens, are expressed in dinars and executed by money-based payments to dinars. This should be remembered by the government gentlemen, very well, so that it will not be repeated in the laws and any other means of payment. Perhaps the solution to proposing governors or governess, the Finance Committee, is extorted, but it should not be finally, and our view is that the governor is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic. The constitutional basis can always be found, but nowhere does the Finance Committee run human policy, I read several times what the tasks of the Finance Committee are. Strengthening the role of the Assembly Committee is a more democratic solution, but the role of governors is no less and less significant than the Prime Minister. Moreover, the president and the government depend on the National Bank of Serbia, including Dinkic, fell short of granting loans to the republican liquidity budget because the donation is missing, and loans are late, and domestic sources are drying up like this. You are already whineing, or Mr. Minister in exile, already whineing that there is no money for social, pension, child benefits, we disagree with the policy of keeping the National Bank in the function of lending deficits and liquidity of the republican budget, credits should be in business and profit gains rather than budget spending. To that end, we propose in Article 39 that the amount of the appropriations be 5% of the average budget revenues in the last three years, or 5% on some average of 200 billion, that is 10 billion, not 20, as was the proposed solution to the government. To that end, I think it is a good idea to accept these amendments that the Committee on Finance and the Government have accepted. Do you know what 200m euros means at this point to stimulate economic development, not to spend in the budget? And in the end, really, I hope you've learned something and I've got your attention at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32797	The People's Messenger Dusan Ilic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32798	Since counterpart Mucic complained of an emergency procedure, I assume the emergency procedure was brought into this case because people's lives were at stake, and I mean because Minister Djelic called the governor a psychopath who was threatening him, which is probably why the emergency procedure was introduced. Unfortunately, in such an atmosphere, we are also talking about this law on the National Bank of Serbia, this debate in fact and the atmosphere in which this debate takes place only shows the depth and size of the crisis of the institutions in which we are brought very consciously by the policy of the ruling majority and those who support that policy. I'm just going to say what kind of situation we're in and what ambience we're discussing today is such a big and important law. We are, as a state, in the process of adopting a new constitution that is knowingly braked. We're in a Parliament that's completely unthinkable. There's something in this country that doesn't exist anywhere, and it's the acting president of the Republic, whose authority we had the opportunity to see for ourselves during yesterday's vote by the Lustration Commission. Why is this important and why are we talking about the President of the Republic? Because in most countries, the President of the Republic proposes the governor of the National Bank, not some assembly committee, and especially the Assembly Committee, which works in one half-way, in which there are no MPs who should be sitting on that committee, and they are not there because of famous, worldwide, affairs with the withdrawal of mandates. When we talk about parliament and the parliamentary committee, it would be very helpful when making a new rules of procedure to form a committee on monetary policy, which would exercise control over the work of the National Bank of Serbia. And to go back to the law, in short, the law is bad. Why is it bad? It is bad because it is intended, and it is intended because this law creates conditions for the National Bank of Serbia to be fully placed in office by the executive authority. I believe everyone will agree that it's not good. Of course, coordination between the National Bank and the Government is needed, i.e. coordination between monetary policy on the one hand and fiscal and foreign trade policy on the other hand, but we cannot possibly allow and it would not be good for a set of coordinations to take place in this way and, in particular, not through one commissioner body that fully restricts the work of governors, which is the commissioner, or party body appointed by parliament, the advice of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia's council has too much authority under this proposal. He actually has a role to play, not to keep an eye on, and that's what's wrong. The National Bank should be set up monocratically, i.e. it is necessary to establish that the governor's responsibility extends to the work of the entire bank and not just to his own work. If, therefore, we had a strong governor in this pursuit, it would be necessary and right, a genuine counterweight in terms of one supervisory board. Of course, parliamentary control that would function through the report, i.e. through reporting, and this report would be discussed by the special assembly committee on monetary policy. As this council is proposed, it is in principle not necessary and this is clearly seen in Article 24 of which it speaks - the Council adopts the National Bank's financial plan and the annual account of the National Bank of Serbia, which can be done by the Assembly, or the Assembly Committee. It also conducts a selection of authorised auditors, which can also be done by the Assembly and its monetary or competent committee. It determines the amount of earnings made by the governor and vice governor of the National Bank, which is practically regulated by law or should be done by the bank governor and determines the single tariff at which the National Bank of Serbia charges compensation for the services performed, which could be done by the monetary committee. What do I want to say? What I'm saying is that, in fact, the only purpose of this council is to put the governors on a proposal and force the governor to support the executive government's policy. Members of the 4th and 10th of this law, as well as numerous amendments, I think 17 amendments to DOS MPs, have practically all the finance minister accepted, clearly show, and amendments and confirm, that the purpose of this law is to put monetary authority under executive control. However, it is obvious that even the executive authority is not doing very well, it is seen from this bill, i.e. from the second position of the 39th member, which allows loans from the National Bank of Serbia to the Republic's budget of 10% of the average budget revenues of three years. What does this practically mean? This is clear evidence that the budget deficit will grow rather than decrease and that the government has a tendency to cover it with loans. This is absolutely contrary to the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund and that is something that is not good, and I hope that will be corrected. In the end, I would like to admit that I am not such an intellectual gromat who can study such a law in two days and it is unfortunate that such a significant law is being discussed by an urgent procedure, which is absolutely unknown who is the real promoter of this law, which was not any public debate; but these very facts are sufficient for this law to be withdrawn. It is unfortunate that only 13 MPs have applied for a debate on this law, which clearly speaks of the inability to prepare for discussion and it is unfortunate that this debate is taking place in an empty room, although the electronic system says No. 146, although we all know that there are much less of us here. In any case, the fact is that the law is proposed in extortion, in one political extortion, and that is what is worst of all, which is ultimately regulated by law, which should regulate one of the most important institutions in this country, is broken by all political conflicts between the former coalition partners. It would be good if this bill was withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32799	The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the word, followed by MP Jovan Todorovic. People's MP, I'm sorry, I didn't see the MP Rajko Baralic in time, he's an authorised representative, and he's looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, MP Rajko Baralic has the right to the Championship by the Rules of Procedure to apologize to both MPs, I did not see him raise his hand to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If it's not too uncomfortable, since I assume MP Rajko Baralić will be short, just let him join you at the pay phone for a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32800	Mrs. Comic, in accordance with Article 82, I would like to ask a quorum to be established, because I think that if the Minister and the Chairman of the Finance Committee are not present, it would be polite to have at least one third of the members of parliament present in the room so that we can work. So, I ask that the issue with the cards that there are many on the tables be resolved previously and that there is no point in making a decision on the extension of work without 80 MPs in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32801	I ask the MPs to, on the proposal of the authorised representative, MP Rajko Baralic, determine if there is a quorum for work and please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units. Here you go. I agree that we have a quorum to work with, with another apology from the MP Milorad Mircic, he has a word, and after him, MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32802	Just to sit this mass of 84. Rajko, you could've asked me. He's got 84. Micovic, sit down. The SRS is for the shift of Mladjan Dinkic and we started it first. But, gentlemen, I'm only telling you this for a reminder, not from any other intent. You and your coalition partner held Mladjan Dinkic until today. We have nothing against Mladjan Dinkic as a person. A long time ago, the Serbian public by the SRS has been informed of what kind of personality it is. But we're against what he did, what he did. Mladjan Dinkic is the biggest criminal in Serbia. Imagine what a criminal he is when he is the greatest among you. Why? Because he robbed the National Bank, robbed the Treasury. Gentlemen, you have not launched an investigation against Mladjan Dinkic until today. How many foreign funds did Mladjan Dinkic find? What was he doing with Captain Dragan Mladjan Dinkic? How much money did he get out of that bank? That's not what you were interested in at the time. Then you said in revolutionary enthusiasm that Mladjan Dinkic, along with Miroljub Labus, along with this finance minister, was a guarantee from the IMF, and especially from the World Bank, when they appeared, and they were essentially rock and roll generations, remained rock and roll generations. That's why it's still happening, that song, "I hope you're dead rock 'n' roll." We're not going to change Young Dinkic like this. Why? Because the bill is more harmful than Mladjan Dinkic did. What do you want with the law? You by law want to legalize printing money, inflation, financing deficits, buying social peace only for this period until the elections are over, and after that, whoever comes to power, let him rip his hair, let him see how and what he will do; Mladjan Dinkic will start, you will finish. The highlight of all is what the finance minister tells us - such methods and such a way that is applied in the bill nowhere has been applied so far. I was throwing it out of place, which is not allowed in the Rules of Procedure, that it's best to declare it a secret, that it's by chance that we who heard it don't tell someone, so they can take our methods. Is there any law, gentlemen, that you have so far suggested, that in the explanation of the tadzakon is not said to be a unique solution, that the best solution is that no country in transition has proposed so far, except for our government. There isn't, gentlemen. That's how you talk about this law. What does the monetary committee mean to you in this law? It's the governor with the technical directors. Vice governors, these are the technical directors. One is in charge of printing, the other is in charge of the second sector. They decide everything. They added that the finance minister is sitting with them. They have all the power, all the power is concentrated on the monetary board and the governor. Your advice is pro-forma, the council doesn't decide anything. What kind of independence is it for the governors and the National Bank, when together, with the government's consent, they set a course? With the government's consent, the governor of the bank is elected. The one proposed by the Government to the Committee will be elected. Which is then the independence of the governor. There's no independence here. It was clear and loud to say - we are passing the law because it is in accordance with the Charter of the Community of Serbia-Montenegro, the National Bank of Yugoslavia is being abolished, we are forming the National Bank of Serbia, we apologize to the citizens of Serbia for being a counterfeiter, a criminal, a thief at the head of the bank, who issued false bills. What Prime Minister Zivkovic said, that's what we should have heard here from the finance minister, not calculate. Finally, let me say that we are also very interested in how this emotional conflict between Bozidar Djelic, Dinkic, Labus and all of G17 plus will end.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32803	The People's MP Jovan Todorovic has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32804	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I owe one apology and Mrs. Komic and all those colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament who are closely following the debate in this House, because this afternoon I unwarrantedly said that no one here is listening. So, I apologize for that. When it comes to the law on the National Bank of Serbia, let me say that, first of all, I would like to see this tonight's duel of Mr. Djelic and Mr. Dinkic end unsettled or both lose, as I would like in football matches between Germany and America and one team and the other team to be defeated. Of course, all of this has one symbolism, because I am fully convinced that what Mr Dinkic has been doing over the past two and a half years has in no way been in favour of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. There is a lot of evidence for such a thing, and I think that you, who, at your time of heart, have fully understood that this man has done a lot of damage to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, to business banks, citizens, employees, and those who are not employed have suffered damage. It was a lot because we had a governor who came to the National Bank in this way - by breaking into the National Bank without regulations, without laws, etc. Unfortunately, as most of you have come to realize that you are dealing with a man who, first of all, has to implement a certain IMF policy and other world financial institutions, and there is no dilemma in that. When you realized that the devil had taken the joke, then you decided to propose at an express speed one text of the law for which, frankly, I have to say it's pretty much correct, except for a few remarks that I'm going to say about later. If you had thought about it on time, then we would have had a public debate on the law on the National Bank of Serbia at the time when we passed the Budget System Law. Some of my colleagues from the government and the opposition then resented me for speaking about it as the need for the ruling majority to prepare a bill on the National Bank of Serbia, because it was clear that we would have two separate monetary systems when it comes to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and that this particular story should have been solved in a professional, consistent and peaceful way, and not allowed the fire to burn to the nail, so now we talk about it. As far as the law itself is concerned, let me say that I have a very problematic explanation for Minister Djelic, that it is natural and that such experiences already exist somewhere, that the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the proposing governor. Even if I could accept something like that, which doesn't have any foothold, then the first question is, whose initial proposal is for the governor? Then we will come to the essence of the story, that it is precisely the best solution when someone who represents a stable executive power, like the President of the Republic, even if it was Mrs. Micic, who is V.D. The president, being the governor's proposal, because such a person is relatively stable and without political influence, can propose a quality solution for the governor. This way, I'm quite sure there's no other way, but to meet the DOS presidency or, as the jargon says, polythyberically and say it and it will be the governor, and that the whole procedure only goes through the Finance Committee. It is clear that there is no real human policy in all of this, nor is there an institution of governors who would be independent. We also foresee it in this law as one of the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia. That's exactly what bothers me the most. Secondly, it bothers me that you can't understand the need for the National Bank to still have an authority to be called the Supervisory Board. There's no supervisory authority. If you're telling me it could have been the advice of the National Bank, then it's not true, because Mr Djelic himself says that this advice is still making some decisions, and whoever makes some decisions can't control things by nature by taking those decisions. Remember, according to these provisions of the law, the council has the authority to choose an auditory house that will carry out the audit, the control of the financial and material operations of the National Bank of Serbia. And then whoever decided to be an auditor cannot oversee this work, no matter how much we can talk about progress on the National Bank's reports in this House, and there is no doubt that it is a good solution and that it is necessary for the National Bank of Serbia to account for this parliament, as this Parliament should elect a governor. Unfortunately, we can have such a situation that every six months, the governor of the minority will be able to change it, because the council as it is will decide in a way that out of five members attend three, and that of those three, they vote that the governor is not professional. It's nonsensical by itself. Two men, from elected experts in the council, can decide that Governor Janko Markovic or Petar Petrovic can no longer do so in the future, because they allegedly do not meet some of the professional criteria in the whole issue. There's one question that I'm rather content with, but only from the point of view of the theory that it will apply in practice. You say the first and primary objective of the National Bank is price stability. I understand that from the point of view of a broader goal that needs to be achieved. But it's not a National Bank organ or an institution that would have to run a price policy. It is true that monetary policy has a considerable impact on prices and that simply by freezing or unprinting money, we can have not a rise in prices, but that we have a decrease in prices. But the question is how positive or negative this monetary approach is affecting economic flows. We have experience that so far the monetary policy of the National Bank has gone to the detriment of economic development, that it has actually stiffed both those opportunities and potentials, especially the business banks, which were present, because by constantly increasing the mandatory reserves, we have actually de facto reduced the right to business banks or the ability to invest in that economy, which would have been given loans two years or two and a half years ago, or a year ago, already in the phase of gradual recovery and growth. We wouldn't have to have a depression that's present in all this and praise by the governors, that we have so many foreign reserves, which he won't say honestly. We have made these citizens social policy, economic policy, or, if you want, by the overall state of the country sell those foreign exchanges they have in the straws, to put them on savings in commercial and business banks. But business banks are required by the National Bank to keep half of that foreign currency amount in foreign reserves. Not to mention the catastrophic mistakes, when we say by this country, on the orders of the National Bank, it takes $850m of credit from the IMF, which exclusively serves to preserve this exchange rate of the euro. That's why Mr Dinkic is right when he says that foreign reserves can't just be spent on economic development, but he's wrong because he doesn't understand the criticism of this kind. We can't take a loan from the IMF to save the course after that, instead of using those funds in the economy. That's what this is about. We can't block 50% of the foreign exchange savings from the National Bank's order, so the bank has foreign reserves, which ultimately serve to finance the external trade deficit. He says we have to have imports of certain foreign exchange reserves in six months to pay foreign commitments, but this has not led to such economic, customs and whatever other economic policy you want to destimulate imports and stimulate exports. Foreign exchange reserves must rest on a healthy basis, on export-oriented economy and on foreign exchanges that this country will achieve through the link after exportation has been made. That is the essence, and therefore, if this parliamentary majority has rational thinking, it will accept some amendments to the SAA and we will then be ready to vote for this or this similar version of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32805	The word is from the MP Srdjan Petrovic, followed by Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32806	Dear Chairman, colleagues, I think we've talked a lot today about the National Bank Act. Not too much, but a lot compared to this other law, which is coupled with this law in principle debate, which is a law on banks and other financial institutions. The law is almost as important for the economy as the law on the People's Bank. Namely, it regulates something previously regulated by the law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which is the relationship between the National Bank as central banks and business banks. Since the change of government on October 5, 2000, we have had a lot of traumatic moments in this sphere, and with various changes, we have come to a situation where in the banking sector we have a situation that is not what we wanted to have. In fact, our banking sector is partially reformed, but we don't have the kind of banks we need. We do not have the proper structure of banks needed by our economy, the necessary citizenship, which is partly due to the policies of the National Bank, one part and because of the current situation in the economy, our positions in the world and partly because of the poor policy, primarily the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the part of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, which, as we remember, worked together. To remind ourselves of what dramatic events they were. First of all, it's the categorization of banks on "A", "B" and "C" category. If you remember, there were categorized banks "A" and "B" categories, which were conditionally able to work, with no criteria needed by the public at all. Why are one bank in category "A" and the other in category "B"? And those banks in category C, they're those big banks that couldn't survive anymore, they were inherited from the previous period, so after some bank in category D, which was supposed to be rescheduled, they went into liquidation. You remember dramatic events and strikes in the winter of 2001. Also, dramatic events have also been related to some other banks, which are by their own fault, and by the bad policies of the National Bank and governors have been practically brought before bankruptcy. Some of them got away with it. One bank was even in a position to suspend work, because it was stolen in the past regime by the D.B. Service, so I almost shut down the governor. Even the witch hunt worked on TV. One bank had reason to be partially closed, and it's closed. You remember the words first at PP Bank and Astra Banka. That, bank reform, didn't go smoothly. Today the situation is bad, we have a small credit activity, we have a situation that foreign banks that have entered our market have no greater importance for the economy, we have a situation of certain claims, primarily foreign banks, large foreign banks such as Socciete General, HVB and the National Bank of Greece, so the reform in this sphere was not quite adequate. Also, what we had as the last measure, at the beginning of this year, was the transition of payment traffic from the PDO, or the National Bank to business banks. This followed the division of the infrastructure of the PDO to certain privileged banks, which had excellent status with the governors of the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance itself. And here's what's been the last of these days, the withdrawal of the work permit for certain banks. Two banks lost their license yesterday, as you were informed. The situation is not good at all and therefore the law on banks and other financial institutions, i.e. the former part of the law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, is related to the control of banks. In this law, i.e. three members of the law on the National Bank of Serbia speak about the control of banks, and the law itself on amendments to the Law on Banks and other financial institutions has practically two parts, one formal nature, in which the termology is aligned with the changes made after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. These are the type members -- the change of the National Bank of Yugoslavia to the National Bank of Serbia. What is more important is this second part of the law, which regulates the control role of the National Bank of Serbia over business banks. The National Bank of Serbia's supervisory role concerns the control of the credit and legality of banks' business and other financial organisations. The National Bank may give a written notice to banks and other organisations, send a letter of reference, give orders to remove identified irregularities with the payment of fines, which is particularly controversial from the point of view of law, introduce a forced administration and withdraw the work permit, as the strictest measure. Assumption to make these measures - the law has been given to establish in control that the Bank has acted contrary to the regulations or in a way that threatens its creditworthiness. What measure will be given depends on several cumulatively defined criteria. That's what's most important, from the weight of what's done, from the degree of endangering financial discipline and the smooth functioning of the banking system. Finally, what is very controversial is that of showing the willingness and ability of the bank's authority and leadership to remove identified irregularities, which is regulated by Article 57b of the Bill of Law. Why is this criterion problematic, a criterion of the willingness and ability of the Authority, the bank's management, to remove identified irregularities? Because it's flat-rate, it's not objective, so there's a possibility that the National Bank will take a number of measures based on it, and that effective legal protection will be difficult. The notion of the willingness and ability of the bank authority and the management of the bank to remove identified irregularities must be objectively objected through the operation of the bank's body and management, which is otherwise considered to be necessary, as it points out again to the need for this flat-rate criterion. Second, such a vague and hazy criterion for voicing measures practically puts a sword of heavy measures on the banks’ heads, which de facto requires continued obedience. The Democratic Party of Serbia criticised, and you heard it, the involvement of the executive government in the work of the National Bank. We did not criticise the need for co-operation of the executive government, i.e. the government and the National Bank of Serbia, but a certain autonomy on what is in the central bank's domain, in this case, is very necessary to preserve monetary stability. Also, in relation to the National Bank, any central banks and business banks, there must be clear rules of play, because otherwise we will have a situation for business banks to live in fear. Normally, the National Bank of Serbia is a supervisor of the work of business banks, and it must keep in mind whether these banks comply with the rules of the game, or whether they adhere to these conservative banking rules in their business, which is a condition that we have a normal situation on the market. On the other hand, banks must not live in constant fear, whether tomorrow some governor or vice governor in charge of banks will shut down the bank in some kind of casual way. Also, in this bill we have certain things that are not best established, first of all, because this law is passed in a hurry. It is likely that the speed of adoption of this law is related to this matter coming out of the National Bank Act, and the National Bank Act must be passed for known reasons urgently, so all of this must in some way, by some legal proposal to be processed. But the fact is that this matter has moved from federal to the state of Serbia, so it is not clear that the proper legal protection of banks, that is, in that part of the relationship between banks and courts, is not fully clear that everything will work. The measures to impose orders for the removal of identified irregularities, together with the pronunciation of fines, which may be imposed for two reasons, firstly, secondaryly as sanctions for non-compliance with the measures laid down in the order letter... (President: I ask the People's MPs to allow the MP Srdjan Petrovic to give his speech uninterruptedly. ) So, the measure is regulated by Article 57d of Article 1 point 1) of the Bill's proposal, primarily because of violations of the regulations or standards of cautious banking business, which are such weights as to lead to a threat to the financial situation of the bank. It is obvious that this measure, the text shows, to remove identified irregularities, consists of two specific measures. The law is so given. The first is the administrative measure, an administrative act, which requires the bank to do something to remove identified irregularities, and the second is the solution to the violations imposed on fines. That creates two groups of problems. The first group of problems concerns the very part of the solution, which by its nature is the solution to the offence. It is not clear what work the bank, directors and other bank managers are responsible for at all, when a violation is not prescribed by the draft law. Then, fines are relatively undefined, they are expressed to the bank in the range of one prominence to one percent, which is a big difference, the prescribed share of the founding capital, and to the director and other bank managers, ranging from the collection of earnings received in the previous three months, to the collection of earnings received in the previous 12 months, starting from the date of the decision. Then, the amount of unpaid fines for violations under which the proceedings are conducted by the authorities that were once federal, and now it is not known which they will be, is not known whether they are paid to the jury account of the body conducting the infringement procedure, i.e. People's banks. In the end, the solution to the offence is an executive document. If the solution to the infringement is an executive document, it shall be charged before the law of law, more specifically before a major offence, one as a second-degree body, decides on a complaint, etc., which is contrary to the principle that no one who cannot be punished for an act which was committed was not provided for by law or regulation based on a criminal law. Another group of problems stem from administrative and infringement proceedings. The issuing of orders to remove identified irregularities is an administrative measure, an administrative act, and the imposition of fines is a criminal penalty. The two bodies who resolve in the institutional procedure create the possibility of a different decision on the same matter, the strict infringement of the appeal procedure should be suspended, as the decision of the competent court arises as a preliminary question for the decision on the appeal in the infringement procedure, more specifically from the decision of the competent court on whether there are grounds for making the measure depends on the decision on the second-degree infringement procedure. The problem arises here, because under the draft law, the appeal does not retain the execution of the infringement decision until the competent court decides, it may also be replaced by a prison sentence of up to 30 days, if the directors and other bank managers do not pay a certain fine prescribed by the law. Also, the relationship between the bank's emergency administration and the last measure itself of withdrawing the work permit is not resolved in the best way, i.e. there is no difference between these two measures, i.e. the same irregularities affecting the statement of the emergency management measure in the bank and the measures of withdrawing the work permit. This is the most dangerous situation when practically from some subjective assessment, which may be professional and may be, for some time, political and business, depending on whether a bank, which has a statutory irregularity, will enter the category of banks over which the emergency administration measure or category, fatal category, withdrawal of work permits is applied. The law lays down the same irregularities for the forced administration and for the measure of withdrawal of the work permit. Also, the transition from the emergency administration to the state of death of the bank, i.e. the withdrawal of the labour permit, is not well regulated, because one member of the law provides the possibility, which is Article 57j, to add a member to the Bank Act and other financial institutions, and paragraph 1 of the 8th states that the forced director or the National Bank of Serbia before the resolution of Article 57th of this Act is an assessment that forced management in the bank cannot lead to the elimination of irregularities in its business, nor to the improvement of its financial situation, or if, after the expiry of the deadline set by the emergency bank administration, it did not lead to the elimination of irregularities in its business, nor to the improvement of its financial situation. It means that this forced manager may have given some chance for that bank to survive, and later that bank will be re-recorded. Again, why, by the same criteria, not the measure of withdrawing the work permit, but the measure of an emergency administration, and after that forced manager may, for some reason, practically bring about the withdrawal of the work permit. All of this says that this legal issue is very important for the banking sector, and therefore implicitly for our economy, solved in one quick way. These measures, if this law was passed, would also suit the current governor. He eventually proposed the measure in his version of the law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and it is believed that it will be more or more equally appropriate for a future governor. Only they will not comply with business banks, both those who operate according to conservative principles of banking and those who risk stakes and do not act by strict banking rules, so all of this says that the adoption of laws on the National Bank of Serbia and amendments to the Law on Banks and other financial organisations has been hasty, and that these two laws, if passed, bring harm to businesses and citizenship. For these reasons, the Democratic Party of Serbia, as it cannot vote for the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, cannot vote for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and other financial institutions either.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32807	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarević, and then by MP Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole comment of this law has raised tension in the ruling coalition. That comment is good for us as an opposition. That's what we've been saying about this assembly speaker on many occasions, that is, from the beginning we've been pointing out that this power is the worst, ever since the century and the world, this power has been in the Serbs the worst. History is already writing negative volumes of this government. Did the National Bank of Serbia have to take urgent action to represent you at this very time? You yourself have produced this climate, you are not alone, because your mentors are doing and making all the moves regarding the National Bank of Serbia. You've rewritten this proposal from the old National Bank of Yugoslavia Act and downloaded it from the agenda more than three times. You've done it all in the interest of calming your tensions. The bill on the National Bank of Serbia should have been put in the process before this parliament much earlier. Instead of being a draft law of technical nature, as a result of the Constitutional Charter and the new phantom community of Serbia-Montenegro states, the bill has caused an unprecedented media controversy between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. In all the newspapers and electronic media, we can read and hear various accusations on the one hand and on the other. The government of the Republic of Serbia argues that the governor is solely for the sake of naked authorities to blame for placing three billion foreign foreign exchange reserves, while our factories are closing, and there is no funds to create new jobs. Dinkic keeps state reserves in foreign banks. On the other hand, the governor accuses that the government of the Republic of Serbia is incompetent, corrupt and criminal, for which he has the necessary evidence and only wants to extend his naked power to the National Bank of Serbia. What's interesting for us Serbian radicals is that both are right. The government of the Republic of Serbia is right about everything it says about the governor, but it is also right when it says that the government is bad, that it is anti-reformal, that it is non-democratic, that it is corrupt and criminal, that the government has regulations, that it does not respect the basic democratic principle of the division of power, that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, incompetent people, and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be changed urgently. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must remind you of Dinkic's statement that the verdict is out of every logic and wit. When the Supreme Court reached a verdict that was not in the interest of the perpetrators of monetary government, Mr Dinkic, his walk in European metropolis was mediatly followed by a group of journalists, who were tasked with advertising and raising the political rating of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. It was all nice, that Mr Dinkic paid the way and journalists, but it is sad and criminal to spend taxpayers' money on personal tours and political promotions. It's a sum of over 40,000 euros. With this unconscious example of the abuse of the perpetrators of monetary government, as well as the way Dinkic entered the building at the time of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, with the help of long pipes and arbitrary declaration as governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, there are enough reasons to thank and say - enough Mr Dinkic. Then who's the new governor? The new governor must be submitted to the D.C. Republika Srpska President Natasa Micic to be elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It will likely be a member of the GSS, which will be a blind listener and a faithful servant of the executive government of the Republic of Serbia. A few months ago, a law on the National Bank of Serbia began to be written. In his reckless political statements, Prime Minister Zivkovic announced. He then commented and denied the governor, claimed that the bills were illegal, that the governor was bad and that he needed to be changed. It was stopped for a moment. Some phone lines and passions have been silenced. Today, both yesterday and these days, the sites and television shows are full of reports from one part of the government and from the other side of the governor. I hope that in the projection of this law there has been something mentioned about Kosovo and Metohija, that is, Resolution 1244. Which is the National Bank of Serbia, which has a dinar and the National Bank of Montenegro is the euro, and I don't know what to call these banks in Kosovo and Metohija whose asset is probably a dollar. This law plans price stability. It's inconclusive. So what are you going to stabilize them for? Do you think the National Bank of Serbia will finance Serbia's budget with its 0.88% rate? She won't do it, it's not worth it, because the 600-700 million dinars Dinkic spends on his staff. Are stability also unknown to how much the governor's salaries, vice governors and senior officials of the National Bank are? Dinkic's friends say their salaries are being held as the biggest state secret. Look at the wonders, and everything's transparent. You're also having trouble making bills with the Bureau. You've made some strange comments out there. You also took pictures of former director of the Institute, who presented the worst data on Dinkic. It is likely that after the adoption of this law on the National Bank of Serbia, a large number of dissatisfied workers of the National Bank of Serbia will appear who will be jobless. There's a lot of them. They will certainly shake the current government with their weight of comments and it will be another in a series of dissatisfactions created by the DOS in that dossic euphoria. The elections are in sight, and we expect them. So this law designs a surplus of workers to be fired today, which is about 2,000 workers in the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32809	The word has a folk MP Nebojsa Jovic, followed by a national MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32810	Respected presidency, honourable MPs, Serbia needs a modern law on the National Bank of Serbia, which will ensure even greater independence and that it depends not only on the governors, regardless of who he was. Is this the law? A law on the National Bank of Serbia should be passed, especially after the establishment of a state union between Serbia and Montenegro, which would regulate the position of the central bank, but in this way this procedure is unacceptable. According to the provisions of the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter, the National Bank continued to operate under the old Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, in which, among other things, there is a provision for the governor to elect and resolve the non-existent SRJ assembly. In addition, it is not established when the governor ceases to function before the end of the term of office, i.e. when and under what conditions it may be authorised. The law should answer the question of what is the governor, what is his role, to whom he answers and how, not who is the governor. Article 16 The bill provides for the governor to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee of the National Finance Assembly. It is selected for five years with the right to re-election, meaning it is chosen by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee, which is not a happy solution. It should be within the law for the governor to be proposed by the President of the Republic. This Article 16 provides for general conditions that must be met by a candidate for governorship. It provides for appropriate experience in the area of economy and finance, taking into account the importance of the role of governor of the National Bank, I believe it is necessary for the governor to have a working experience of at least 10 years. Also, I believe that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia should have a deputy governor and that this solution should be foreseen in law. The deputy governor shall be replaced by the governor in absentia, when he is prevented from performing his post and in the event that the governor has ceased his post before the term of office, and would act as governor until the election of the new. That would be regulated by the Statute of the National Bank. The introduction of a deputy governor would stop the need for the governor to appoint a vice governor who replaces the governor at the beginning of his term, if he was prevented from hanging his post. The current law gives the governor too much authority and therefore it is very important to define the new solutions made by the governor, which decisions must be made by a specially formed body in the National Bank of Serbia, where opinions would be faced, so that the governor is not the only person in charge. I believe that the National Bank's advice should have a president and six members, given the work of the Council's affairs, that meetings of the council should be held if at least five members are present and that decisions are taken by majority vote of the total number of members of the council. The National Bank of Serbia is independent and independent in performing the functions set out in these and other laws, and for its work corresponds to the National Assembly. The National Bank of Serbia will not receive instructions from state authorities and other persons in performing its functions. So there is no alleged threat to the autonomy of the National Bank of Serbia. The conflict of executive and monetary authorities was who would decide on the regime and foreign exchange policy. In the bill of law, the function of the National Bank is the dinar course regime with the government's consent and dinar course policies on its own. The proposed solution in the work that the National Bank regulates the dinar course regime with the government's consent is the solution that the government would in some sense be responsible for implementing the overall economic policy. The situation in the foreign exchange market would be one indicator whether it is effective or not. In this way, the government is responsible for the inflation target rate and cannot therefore be responsible only for monetary authority, because inflation depends not only on monetary indicators, but on a number of real-life parameters. For reasons of importance for the continued functioning of the National Bank of Serbia, I believe that the governor, Vice-Governors and members of the council should not, in the next two years following the resolution, be employed by banks and other financial institutions, and all to prevent abuse of positions and business ties acquired during work at the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia can grant the Republic of Serbia a loan to finance the temporary liquidity of the budget, which these days is current in connection with the late payment of individual fees. The bill stipulates that the loan could amount to up to 10% of the average budget revenues in the last three years. I believe that in order to prevent inflationary public spending, budgetary lending should be limited to a maximum of 5% of planned annual budget revenues. As we heard in the report, the proposal is for the adoption of amendments by the SPS parliamentary group on the determination of 5% of planned annual budget revenues. The National Bank of Serbia regulates the level of the bank's mandatory reserve, prescribes a minimum reserve rate. Deposits and the potentials of business banks should grow on the basis of the growth of the economy's deposits. Any increase in the country's deposit may have negative consequences, as I believe that the National Bank of Serbia should not lead an independent policy of the dinar course, but rather agree with the government of the Republic of Serbia. The policy of the dinar course must be guided on the basis of supply and demand on the foreign market. Economic policy must be coordinated and all relevant factors of this country must participate. The National Bank of Serbia is due to submit a report to the National Assembly on business and the results of work and a report on monetary policy. The deadline should not be 30 June, but earlier, let's say by 31 March of the current year, when the report was discussed by the Assembly and it would make sense, with an explanation of all the factors affecting monetary policy in the previous year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32811	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who wanted to remain until the end of the debate, are probably pleased to speak at the end of today's debate. I know that's what makes you especially happy. [[Applause]] Thank you. The theme is very serious, and there's a lot of laughter today. At one point, it seemed to me that a competition for the smiling Olympics, who would make anyone laugh more, was being held in the DOS-Reform Serbian parliamentary group. It's not so funny to Bozidar Djelic, who is being makeupd right now in a studio in Kosutnjak and tonight will be interesting for us to watch as the rock and roll rock and roll of Mladjan Dinkic, an absolutely untalented banker and musician. We will see how Bozidar Djelic, completely surprised after arriving in Serbia after 15 years, will explain what the official position of Prime Minister Zivkovic and you, so fine and directional Mr Bogdanovic, are today, who listen carefully to what MPs say about this law. The proposed law on the National Bank of Serbia announced your prime minister and deputy party president, Mr. Zivkovic, on April 13th. By then, it could be concluded that no war axes were buried between you from the DS and the Gay 17 plus minus, for the simple reason that they had already begun a campaign to promote their new political party, which only in dreams and researches of Strategic Marketing has some virtual 12-13%, and otherwise in the future elections the party or group, which we saw yesterday, has the support of ten of those from the 17 groups in front of the National Assembly, and in my deep conviction, will not pass the election censorship. Don't get too excited about it, because you won't be able to make it through as well as Kostunica's DSS, even though the Montenegrin press wrote yesterday, and today all the daily newspapers in Serbia have passed on to prepare for a new coalition. Accepting someone from the DSS in your government, who has completely unpreparedly welcomed all these social waves and riots that will be intensified in September of the month, will mean a quick return to the power of the SRS, because at the moment when a new Obren Joksimovic comes to the government of Zoran Zivkovic, Serbian citizens will get confirmation of what we are talking about in this assembly speech two and a half years ago. Mirosinkin's son, Mladjan Dinkic, first appeared here at the assembly pay phone on October 12, 2000, when after the burning of the Federal Assembly, the assembly was moved to this building. At that time, the SRS met the entire Serbian public, while there were still direct transfers, with the fact that he had been an assistant intern for a long time, much longer than was prescribed by law, that in calling an assistant for 20 years, he was completely unprepared to take over such a function, and you, just as the DSS, were later taken away by Dragan Marscanin by the MPs of the SRS. And Professor Vojislav Seselj said, and you see in the end that it is always as he says, that Mladjan Dinkic has no idea, that he knows nothing, that he is completely incompetent, that you are today, and he has been in the former Federal Assembly for five hours talking about everything that Mladjan Dinkic, still the current governor of the National Bank, is not going to exist, according to Zivkovic, the National Bank of Serbia. It wouldn't be the biggest accident, because, you know, we don't care who comes to the seat of the governor of the National Bank while you're in power, but the accident is that neither you, nor Bozidar Djelic, nor Mladjan Dinkic do you realize that it rang... (President: Four minutes. ) Last night, here I am, on the show on TV "Politics" on a direct question -- would you support the governor from the ranks of the SRS, said he didn't know such a thing. Hundreds of thousands of members of the SRS, regardless of their personnel training, without talking about dozens of those who are extremely skilled in the area, could also delete Mladjan Dinkic, with their knowledge, with their skills and abilities as governor. (President: five minutes. ) Serbian citizens, here I am ending, be Mrs. Comic, after such a constructive discussion today and this much laughter in the DS ranks will be more tolerated to finish the thought, so in September of the month, after that concentration government, as Montgomery, your supreme commander will call you, from the DSS, there will be an election call, sooner or later, and then some student of the SRS economy, let alone some expert wipe out all of you, beaten experts, and you and the funny Mickey Mouse, will soon watch him, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32813	The word has been made by MP Marko Culibrk, the time available to your parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32814	Dear People's MPs, the adoption of the law on the National Bank of Serbia is a very important moment and therefore it is not good that it takes place in the atmosphere of politically heated passions and it will not benefit anyone, and it will cause great damage in the economic and monetary sphere of our society. Instead of politically inspired arguments, a professional, professional, correct and reasoned debate on all concept and strategic issues was to be launched, without cheap political marketing. The results of the National Bank so far have not been very successful, and if some things are not corrected, the effects and consequences will be very difficult in the coming period. Often, the heads of the National Bank, and out of power, said they had achieved macroeconomic stability. That's incorrect or partly true. In fact, only monetary or currency stability has been achieved and we can ask ourselves at what price. At the cost of borrowing abroad, distributions of domestic economy through privatisation, extraction from citizens of the latest foreign exchange reserves. If borrowing continues to maintain the course, which becomes a goal in itself, and charges of Serbia's budget, not to increase exports, but in 2005, and in particular in 2007, we are getting into difficulties with the repayment of loans. It is therefore certain that the issue of export growth is becoming one of the main issues and development and preservation of credibility. However, it is obvious that these issues are not of interest to the current government, because this law aims at a pre-election campaign, that the heads of government can simply use foreign reserves, and any leverages held by the National Bank in their hands, in the pre-election campaign. To reflect the current political relations, it is also seen in Article 3 which is completely unclear and intertwined, then in Article 39 where it is said that the National Bank of Serbia can grant loans under certain conditions to finance the temporary liquidity of the budget, then members 13 and 14 on the monetary council and advice of the National Bank, which my colleagues spoke of. In order to avoid all of this, not to mention these members now, it is necessary that the law on the National Bank of Serbia first and foremost enables the transformation of the banking system and business banks into modern monetary institutions; to make very expensive, non-leading and inefficient loans to be replaced by cheaper, more liquid, more efficient, multilateral packaging arrangements; to implement successful work and development of the interbank market, in ways and under conditions that apply to all normal countries in the world, without which there is neither a central bank, nor business banks, nor any quality money, nor any other market; to set an interbank escontic market, without which there are no normal national conditions for market work and development of any enterprise, small, medium, large, private or social. Without the successful policy-making of the central bank in the field of escontitial, reescont contigents and theoretically and practically impossible work of the real sector. To form an interbank Lombard market, without which it is difficult to achieve the optimal liquidity of the monetary institutions of the national economy, to give a solution to the issue of the dinar cash market or the market for dinar efficiency, without which it is impossible to reduce very high cash participation, and without it there is no self-alimation, but no grey and black economy to the bearable limit. To support and improve national financial infrastructures and this, reconstructions of the insurance sector, pension and insurance funds, as well as the establishment and operation of new institutional investors, and above all institutional funds. An attempt to increase the participation of domestic dinar savings to create employment conditions and the minimum necessary trust of domestic investors in the banking system. Without achieving these preconditions, it is unrealistic to expect any serious investment by serious partners and investors from abroad. These were some very professional issues, unfortunately the minister is not here, with which we could discuss it, and these issues were extremely well-intentioned, above all in the performance function and help the economy increase its production and exports, because without exports, export increases, we will come into a very difficult position. However, this government does not think two three years in advance, it is only thinking from today to tomorrow, how to open a new affair, close an old one and how to get into these elections. To her, survival in power is the most important goal, but it is not good for Serbia and the Serb people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-16-0.u32815	I am informing the MPs present today that we are completing the work, and MP Mark Culibrk is entitled to have the rights tomorrow, when we continue to work, for six minutes of the parliamentary group, because during your presentation, one of the MPs left the hall, so that you have your speech, I did not want to interrupt you, but you have the right to repeat it when the quorum is present. I am informing the MPs that tomorrow at 10.00 hours we will continue with six minutes of the SPS parliamentary group and by the word of the president, the deputy president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, after which we will conclude a joint principled search, as MP Marko Culibrk was last reported. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that you are prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Aleksandar Stefanovic, Stanko Kovacevic and Miroslav Markicevic, and in the morning Radomir Naumov and Petar Misic. We move to item two of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the National Bank of Serbia (continuing in principle with point 3) Does MP Marko Culibrk want a word? No, I don't. ) Do the Presidents, representatives or deputy presidents of parliamentary groups want the word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
