ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26108	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. Please, for quorum, insert identification cards into your MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, we have determined that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Dragoslav Boskovic, Radmilo Misovic, Išpanovic Istvan (before noon); Petar Misic, Milos Luksic, Bojan Pajtic, Predrag Stojanović and Milutin Svetanovic (announced late). The sittings were invited to be attended by the president, vice-presidents, ministers and secretary of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as by the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. Also, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic, agrees with the members of 83rd and 84th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia invited representatives of the Centre for Free Elections and Democracy, the National Movement of Resistance, the National Democratic Institute, the Association of University Professors and Teachers of Serbia -- the Kolubara Section and the USAID. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Selection of MEPS OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE (the sequel in particular) before we move on to the new amendment, notification of a speech error, spoken yesterday on my part and included in the stenogram. In expressing the position of the Legislative Committee, instead of saying "refused this amendment, he rejected it with a voice error". Since this voice error also produces a material error, please enter this correction into the stenogram, because it's about my lapus. In the report of the Legislative Committee, the verb reads "no" and the chairman is obliged to read the report, and I am informing you. We move to Article 3, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ćirkovic, Zlata Đeric and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. Is the Proposer pleading? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the authorized participants want a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic. on behalf of the applicants for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26109	Ladies and gentlemen, a group of signatories of this amendment proposes that Article 3(1) be supplemented. It reads: "The distribution of mandates in the Assembly is attended by political parties, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." We propose to place a decimal instead of a point and end with the words "proportionally won parliamentary mandates in the last elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". In my explanation, I call on the Constitutional Charter, Article 20 of Article 2, which prescribes proportionality, and this law only has to operate. I will read to you Article 20(2), which says: "Employees of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly are elected from each Member State in accordance with European standards, based on the laws of the Member States etc. (and the text continues) during the first two years following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, MPs are elected indirectly, proportionately represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of Montenegro." For irony to be greater, although I read what is written in the Constitutional Charter, members of the Legislative Committee judge that my amendment is contrary to the Constitutional Charter. Unbelievable. It's in political practice ostracism. It is, in fact, the need to punish someone for disagreeing with what the legislator proposes. I don't think there's any need to have ostracism with people who have proven themselves in their opposition function. I really have no intention of using the congregation pay phone to speak as in the myths. As for the rally, I have a lot more performances than Ceda Jovanovic, and even a much more talented speaker was at the myths. But, Mr. Ceda Jovanovic, as unlived, is really rallying for this speaker, which is not right, because in the congregation debate, we have to put down one octave lower and we have to act convincingly and not make a fuss. We can yell when we're at political myths, gatherings, etc. Once again, I ask that someone from the Legislative Committee explain to me why this amendment is not in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, when I am literally quoting it in the Constitutional Charter?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26110	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. A bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, demanding that the 2nd position be changed. Otherwise, it says that the candidate for MPs can be a national MP, and in the first elections for MPs of the Assembly and federal MP of the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly. With this amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I demand that the MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly be elected from the summary election list for the election of MPs held on 23 December 2000 and 10 January 2001. Why was I looking for this? I think this is a fundamental amendment to which we would be able to correct and avoid most of the illogicalness and what is bad in this bill's proposal. In fact, I think Mr Pajtic replied that this amendment cannot be accepted because it does not comply with the Constitutional Charter. It's just not true. In Article 20. The Constitutional Charter has been said that MPs of choice are represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not as you wrote - by parliamentary groups. Logical interpretation tells you clearly that, as you wanted, it is absolutely impossible. No parliamentary groups participated in the election. In this way, the electoral will of the peoples and citizens of Serbia has been violated. If it is already said -- to create a so-called staff compromise, probably counting on its people -- that it can be an MP from the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic, how can it not be a participant in the elections for such a state? So how does this union of Serbia-Montenegro represent someone who continues the legal continuity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? They cannot be MPs, but therefore those who have not participated in any of the elections, nor in the federal elections in September 2000, nor in the December 2000 elections for Serbia's republican parliament. Those political parties who did not participate in the elections, but received mandates as part of some other pooling election lists, cannot have their special mandates, cannot be credited with their participation in the election campaign. Not to mention the very delegate system that you say is at the highest European standards, and this delegate system is applied in Europe at the time of the Paris community, and it's incomparably more perfect than the one you've imposed today, and in the time of the Soviet constitutions of 1918, 1924 and the 1974 Broz Constitution. You don't know that. These people who have been chosen in this way, and have not been on that election list under that name, cannot be represented in the parliament of the state union because they represent no one. It's something to end the electoral will, in an artificial way, by the majority. It represents the political crime of its kind. I can also have nothing against Branislav Ivkovic and Mark Petrovic, and I don't know who, but their parties (I don't even know what groups they belong to) didn't participate in those elections. They can't be represented there, they don't represent anyone. Only when the people vote for them, for their election list, can they say yes, this is such a representative, indirect democracy, so we're going to represent someone. They don't represent anyone today. It's got to stop, we have to stop, because that's not where it's going to end. You're saying the MP won't be responsible for it anymore. Let's agree -- it can be a free term, not to be bound or an imperative mandate, but to be clear rules, to be clear standards that must be followed, and not to have a completely clear law, and yet to be directly opposed to all these norms and to say -- all of this can be interpreted in one way, when we banish the MPs of Vuk Obradovic, and when we need it, then we will interpret it in a different way. How can I do what needs to be done? Such arbitration in behaviour, such a kind of relationship not only with political opponents, but with citizens of Serbia who chose their representatives in this parliament, cannot be tolerated. It just can't be tolerated. (President: five minutes. ) I think the best way to solve the greatest number of pains and problems in this law by accepting this amendment. If this is accepted, this law will not be as unacceptable, it will not be as bad as it is and will not bear with it such severe consequences for the entire legal-political life as it normally carries. Anyway, anyway... (President: six minutes. 6 minutes is and May 29 is closer in those six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26112	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26113	Ms. Komic, first of all, I should like to object to you as an eminent lawyer who will remain remembered in Serbia's history under the draft law on lustration, that you cannot say that the Legislative Committee has rejected the amendment, because this termology is not derived from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Legislative Committee, under Article 135(2) Rules of Procedure, he can only propose to the Assembly to accept or not accept the amendment. He doesn't even have the right to propose to refuse the amendment, because there's not only a termological difference between words he refuses and does not accept. What you refuse, that's not what you're discussing. What you don't accept, you argue, so don't accept. So, the Legislative Committee could propose to the Assembly, under Article 135, not to accept this amendment, it didn't even have to explain it. His explanation doesn't suit reality. The amendment is not incompatible with the Constitutional Charter, because the Constitutional Charter requires proportionate representation, and this amendment provides it. It only introduces a whole series of amendments that we have changed the electoral principle for the indirect election of MPs for the Assembly of the Communities of the States, but is not at all in collegiate with the Constitutional Charter. This amendment provides for proportionate representation. Article 3 The draft law in paragraph 1 states: "The distribution of mandates in the National Assembly shall be attended by political parties, political coalitions and other organisations (it is not clear to me, but let it go) represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." If you used the words "which are represented", now I ask you -- how did it come to be represented by some political parties or coalitions in the National Assembly? It came about by having electoral lists and, according to a report by the Republic Election Commission, winning a number of seats. It's all derived from the people's will shown in the elections. The national will was expressed through the vote for the electoral lists, and the election lists won the mandates. These are documents that are still valid today, here they are in the official messenger, and here they are on the official messenger's CD. These are up to the next election the only relevant results, which indicate the results of the election. When the electoral lists are represented in the Serbian Parliament, then we will choose delegates according to the proportionate representation of the electoral lists. If the DOS electoral list has won 176 MPs, then it has the right to the percentage of which is 176 contained in 250, that it also contains in 91; whether it is 70%, 65%, does not matter at all, but that percentage should be applied to the DOS voter's list. Well, if you're people, at least if you were in a fight, at least if you'd split up in these two years, you'd share the consistent relationship you agreed on under DOS. I don't notice your desire to play a big DOS partner. Your wish was based on it until you saw that the Constitutional Court would not allow it. It is now based on finding first small parties among opposition parties who can always be threatened, and then among them small souls who can change their color and come and go to work and work with the police, so that you and Milo Djukanovic can cement this artificial relationship in the National Assembly. Yesterday, the legislator said that this is now a political reality. Yes, this in the Assembly is a political reality, but as it happened - unconstitutional and in an illegal way. Can we admit that he wrongly gave birth to a right? We can't. It must start from the beginning, to find a source of injustice. The source of the injustice is that you have seized the mandates of the parliamentary groups. Come on, I understand within DOS, they might bother you, so it doesn't matter after all. When you have 176 MPs within the DOS, deploy them however you want, but you cannot go to the parties who went to the elections on their own to kidnap the mandates. It's not yours. You can say -- here, the Democratic Party is DOS... (President: five minutes. If you gave God if he had 176 on the Democratic Party election list, everyone would be MPs, and you can do that, those are your relations in the coalition. When you dare to go to political parties that had nothing to do with you in the elections, then it's a sign that from a democracy that you've been clapping at us for two and a half years, the letter "d" remains. You will choose the composition of this congregation in accordance with your wishes and with your will. It's all illegal... (President: six minutes. Everything will be illegal. The Constitutional Court must also declare these laws that were passed here at a time when, as you say, Mile the Korean was not an MP. How could he vote? Either that was illegal, or it's illegal now that Mrs Joksimovic votes. She, of course, couldn't be an MP in any case, because she's an official of the Foreign Ministry, but who can prove it to you... (President: six minutes and 30 seconds. I'm done. She may be a deputy, but I assume she's an assistant foreign minister. He can't be a MP. By the laws of physics, two bodies can't be in the same place at the same time, so someone can't be an assistant. Milka, I can, but you be down there, that's fine. [[growls]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26114	Seven minutes, MP. I ask the MP to consult the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on how to address the Assembly. I'm obliged to thank you for the assessment of the results of the acquisition of knowledge that I'm not professional, because by profession, I'm a graduate physicist. I would really like not to abuse the five-minute restriction, the Rules of Procedure arranged, for discussion in the details of the amendments. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26115	I must say that so far I have agreed to the highest extent possible with the proposings, except in one part, that the MPs of the Federal Assembly are not allowed to be elected to the future assembly of the state community. We felt that this was important, precisely to ensure continuity between the SRJ and the future state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because at discontinuity he most insisted on one part, to say, Serbian delegations in the Constitutional Commission and the DPS, and I will not mention who they are, everyone knows it well and it is not disputed. Our request was just to ensure continuity, to give MPs to the Federal Assembly to be MPs in the future state community. This restriction that exists in this article, that only in the first election can the candidates be, means that if that assembly is disbanded before the end of two years in the new indirect elections, they will not be run. That's one thing. Secondly, I would agree that it is necessary for the electoral lists to be the ones that will be relevant for the mandate. The coalition agreement itself, if it regulates, should be relevant for the allocation of mandates. So it can't, if we were to collect hypothetically now, which is, of course, impossible, except 176 MPs that DOS once won -- the DOS now has another plus six MPs, who have kidnapped the Socialists and the SS -- that it now has 182 mandates to distribute. I'm talking about these abuses and thefts that are here and that have taken hold and give right to those who say government support is based on thieving and stealing, which is true and what is not to be doubted about. We have here and disputed mandates regarding legal error. I'm surprised that the law professor, who's doctored on the delusion of civil law, allows himself to be brought into legal error and is either stopped or returned to his term. Should we ask that as a question here, if they were so easily led into legal error, whether they should be assigned psychiatric skill, to determine whether they have or do not have the business capacity necessary to carry out parliamentary duties. So there are several things regulated, and such an amendment has this part in terms of preventing thieving and stealing in the Serbian parliament, and it is acceptable for us. It is not acceptable that part that says it is breaking up and that there is no continuity between the SRJ Assembly and the state community. I think that's important at this point, because this is exactly how we provide that continuity, unlike what that continuity doesn't have in that part of the indirect election, which is actually saying that it's a new kind of assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26116	Replication to the presentation of Parliamentarian Dejan Michael? The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, who has the right to reply. The basis for the replica, the interpretation of the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26117	The People's MP, Dejan Mihaylov, did not interpret my exposure well. The continuity between the two countries is not achieved by, for example, Federal MP Dragoljub Micunovic will be an MP in the new assembly. It has nothing to do with continuity. The personal composition of the new congregation does not provide continuity. The Constitutional Charter, the Law for the Implementation of the Charter, was to ensure continued conduct over the next two years. That, whether Pera, Mika, Laza who were federal MPs will be again or not, it doesn't really have anything to do with continuity. The amendment didn't want to break up the state community, if you know the ideology of the SRS, then you understand that this doesn't suit us. Not because he wants to preserve the state, but because we claim he won't keep it. We would like to have a unitary state, and one day Serbs will come to their senses, both in Serbia and Montenegro, and they will vote majority for those who want to build them a single state. As for the amendments to the number of MPs, as far as anyone will have, that is then defined by Article 5. The thefts are done by Article 5 and returned originally, according to results from December and January, the number of MPs on the election list that won the day. Interferences cancel when the Assembly does not want to do so with its majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26118	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic together submitted together. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Rada Bajic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26119	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 4 which says that the election of MPs is an old RIK, and we have added that it does so by implementing the process of electing MPs in the manner laid down by the Law on the selection of MPs. In fact, this is where he wants to put himself in charge of the Electoral Commission to do what it doesn't belong. The electoral commission is designed to organise, implement and determine the final will of voters, rather than implement the agreements with a decree, political bargains to buy and legalise and implement it through its work. We ask that the electoral commission, and it is known that it is established, works under the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. If we didn't already want to use September elections for the Federal Assembly as the basis for electing MPs to the Federal Assembly, because a state was created, and let's accept it, there had to be a republican election from December 2000. Therefore, the electoral will of citizens must be respected; nothing else, but simply apply the Law on the Selection of MPs, and so to be determined today. The commission cannot be appointed as the working body of the Assembly; it is independent, autonomous and must remain that way if we want to respect the commission and the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. Just yesterday, when I was coming back, I heard a truly wonderful sentence; I said to my comrades, "Well, don't be surprised how the MPs are elected, what is the law-abiding state, so also the MPs are chosen. Yesterday God sent us a warning message - so a country that couldn't give anyone one goal, took a point to the national team; that means something. So something's wrong and it has to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26120	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Ćirković, Zlata Đeric and Miodrag Stamenkovic together submitted the 5th amendment. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. The word has been made by MP Zoran Cirkovic, on behalf of a group of MPs, to submit the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26121	Ladies and gentlemen, the Legislative Committee has rejected the amendment with the same explanation. He says this amendment is not in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, so I'm going to read the Constitutional Charter provisions and the contents of this amendment again, so you can evaluate. Please also the chairman of the Legislative Committee, since I assume he wrote this report, let him explain what he meant by that. Then, his vice president or authorized promoter, etc. So, let's move on to the amendment. I have proposed a full amendment to Article 5, which reads in the text of the proposal for this law: "Employees are chosen in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament who have parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". For example, this stance is immediately contrary to Article 3 of this same law, as Article 3 says political parties, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the Serbian Parliament are involved in the allocation of mandates. This is where the parties participate, and this is not where the parties participate, but the MPs' clubs participate. I therefore suggested that this first position be deleted, for the simple reason that it is in conflict with the first amendment that I have proposed to Article 3 of the proposed law, and I have explained for a moment that this position is complemented by the words that are closer to it. So I proposed, and the Committee refused, that Article 5 reads: "The administrative committee determines the number of MPs elected on a proposal from each parliamentary group educated under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were members of parties or coalitions participating in the last parliamentary elections. The number of mandates belonging to the political entities referred to in Article 3 of this Charter shall be determined by multiplying the number of seats from the December 2000 elections by 91 and dividing the number by 250. The parties or coalitions shall have as many mandates as the total number of coefficients in the previous position, and the remaining mandates shall be distributed in accordance with the order of the largest decimal (decreased) factor obtained in the preceding position of this Article. The Administrative Board shall decide on elected MPs on the day following the entry into force of this law and shall immediately forward it to the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by means of the President of the National Assembly. "And indeed, in the explanation I gave, it says that the first position of Article 5 in the bill is deleted because it is a negation of the first amendment, which regulates the way MPs are elected for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. The Constitutional Charter prescribes a proportionate representation of MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and it is presented by a simple three-way rule, as we propose, rather than by Dont's ratio, as proposed by the DOS-Reform of Serbia, as the initiator of this law. Political entities in the election match cannot be parliamentary groups (the form of a technical organisation of MPs), but only parties and coalitions that participated in the last parliamentary elections in late 2000. Which is why I suggest that the election of MPs is based on proportion - because the proportion is prescribed by the Constitutional Charter. The proportion does not result in Dont's ratio, but a proportional account, on the one hand. On the other hand, Dont's amount of MPs were elected to this parliament, but the subsequent act that this assembly passed, the Law on Local Elections, prescribed that the councils should be elected to the municipalities in proportion to the system, using this same account. And to that law, I intervened, simply to take a linguistic and technical approach. It's not accepted, although it can be understood what it's all about. I still believe that what is prescribed by the Constitutional Charter must be translated into this law. Therefore, if we are talking about this, I have consistently adhered to the Constitutional Charter, and in amendments to this bill, I have come from this principle of legality. I called for a higher act, the Constitutional Charter, and yet another wonders me -- how did the Legislative Committee find that I was proposing things that were not in agreement... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) Thank you very much, although at first I was disturbed, but it is not worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26122	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? He has the word MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26123	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group Slobodan Milosevic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this law, or to the regulation of Ceda Jovanovic, which you have baptized by law. It is scientifically known, fellow MPs, that memory in humans is not a perfectly regulated process, such as vital functions, breathing or metabolism. However, with DOS and memory functions, according to how you've been talking about the last 10 years, it is the perfect mechanism, and that is why I ask you, colleagues from DOS, to remember what you said before 2000, what you said in the 2000 elections -- that every end of the vote is the biggest crime that seems to this people. And for that reason, I will consider this law to be a better - betterin law that will be passed in this home, which is what the Serbian language, which has only three degrees of comparison, cannot judge. But I'll talk about it later. Remember, therefore, all those ugly words and what you said about how voices were stolen, how this was done or what, and how you wanted to protect the citizens. Now, you DOS gentlemen are putting parliament in a position to make that crime that was previously committed by this parliament and to pass a law that will practically undo citizens' will, steal citizens' votes, because you suggest that MPs not be elected according to election lists but according to some virtual parliamentary groups. You knew the DOS, and you know it's impossible, so you decided that Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, not the government, not the competent ministry, because the next day when you leave the government, you'll easily say - well, that's not proposed by the government, that's what Mr. Jovanovic suggested, etc. And by doing so, you will bring Parliament into great trouble. I know that you think, all of you from DOS, and Mr Jovanovic, that passing this law may seem like an organization of some children's puppet show or performance in Radovica; but no, gentlemen, this is a law for you to ensure that the votes of the people and voters of Serbia are stolen. Today, this congregation, therefore, is ahead of such a task, and that is why this is the beter - beterinde law that appears in this congregation. I would ask my fellow MPs to say one more thing about this amendment - there is a comparison in Serbian: bad, worse, and worst, and many have seen this law as the worst; however, I estimate it in the fifth degree of comparison, because there is a better -- the most better -- and the better-better-better. That's the fifth degree of comparison, dear gentlemen. It's a real picture of this law that you're trying to impose on this home today. Let me remind you, when Mr Jovanovic so freely said yesterday that the free assessment of political will is more important than the voters' wishes, then it indicates the passion of Mr Jovanovic and DOS to perform and speak in this way. And if this is all right, I ask the promoter -- why is Mr. Novkovic, the bearer of the five-octobar revolution in Leskovac, one day removed from the Federal Assembly, the moment he left the DS. And you here don't want to exclude five MPs who have been expelled from the party from their mandate. I know the people see it all, but you don't know it. I know that your currency instead of democracy is "the target justifies the means", and I know that only by stealing votes and buying can come to this. And I don't judge those who buy. I condemn and disgust those who sell their votes in order to end things this way. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Therefore, regarding memory, I must say for a start that DOS really thinks that all of us, including the voters of Serbia, will very easily tear out what you are doing in this home today. Be assured they won't and that in the first election to come, the people will take revenge on all this. Doesn't what happened in Leskovac these days, gentlemen of the DOS, make it clear to you what I've been saying? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26124	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word from National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a representative of the motionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26125	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since the amendments repeat this political assessment repeatedly that the allocation of the mandate should be tied to the election list, or the election result of 2000, I suggest you carry out the bill yourself and see that the political problems are repeated. But in that case, they would not be tied to a single party, as the internal conflict brought her into a difficult position, but rather to a coalition that also, due to the same political conflicts, has troubled its relations to the extent that practically one party no longer exists in its environment. Since this is the case with 109 MPs of DOS, we have made it very clear that those parties that entered this House, with the people representing them as heads of parliament, are themselves responsible for the internal political processes that have actually brought these parties into the position that we today do not know who their representatives are, who their president are, who are MPs, who are authorized persons; that is why, in accordance with Article 20. Constitutional statutes, we said -- the current political situation and the proportionate relations of forces in parliament. That power is not measured through the MPs' clubs. It's where the MPs are organized. And at least one MP to propose instead of a parliamentary club, always the majority in this parliament, due to the existence of political interests, will be the majority to be transferred to the parliament of the state union, and it is impossible for the minority in this parliament, which exists, to be the majority in someone else. In the end, it's even a question of common sense. I understand the interest which is primarily directed towards the criticism of this principle, but a better principle than this does not exist. The only better principle than this is to organise direct elections for the assembly of the state union, but, as you know, something like this was not possible not because of the representatives of our parliament, but because of the very explicit attitude of the part of the Montenegrin political community, represented by the Democratic Party of Socialists. In such a situation, the DOS proposed that through the indirect elections we meet those who sought to further confirm continuity, through the criteria of granting rights to existing MPs in the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic to be candidates in the first elections for the state union. That's what we did, and that's the unblocked process that's been in place for three months, not with the intention of demeaning anyone, not with the intention of bringing something down, but with the intention of trying to build something on what's already been broken down. There are very clearly defined circumstances under which each delegation within the parliament will be determined, which will fill that number of 91 MPs. The possibility of appeal to the Supreme Court of Serbia has been defined; dissatisfied with the allocation of the mandate can file an appeal, so let the court rule on the matter and some say after five months: whether the parties and coalitions are the holders of the mandate or are MPs of the mandate. But it's impossible to be both. Since we do not have a final answer at the moment to this question, and we have very clear processes in parliament, we have said what the current political situation is and all those who are dissatisfied can appeal to the Supreme Court of Serbia, so let it make a final decision and that decision will be respected. Anyway, she's been respected so far. Finally, an argument is repeatedly mentioned regarding the congregation life of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Mr. Novkovic was a member of our party, he was elected to the election unit Leskovac, left the party, resigned, and therefore retired.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26126	The word has been issued by MP Zarko Obradovic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26127	Fellow MPs, Col. Cvetkovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group, similar to the others we submitted, where he is trying to solve the basic problem of this law, and the fundamental problem of this law is that it is not fair. That's the point, and you can tell from the plane. I don't think the previous speaker believes what he's been telling us. No one here is trying to turn a minority into a majority or anything, nor is that possible. It's about the simple thing. An example of Dont's ratio to the number of MPs -- that's what my colleagues from DOS told me, and there's no reason not to believe them, are people who deal with mathematics -- directly defines the number of mandates that will be given to individual parliamentary groups in the future parliament. One thing is when you count on 37 MPs, the amount of SPS she received in 2000, that's 14 seats. The second is when you count to 32, then it's 12 terms of office. It's a simple matter, two terms are being stolen from us. One will get one who is rewarded for his presence here and for the vote, for supporting government proposals, and the other will get DOS. In the structure of the mandates to be obtained, there will be a distribution and there is no reason for any story or big words at all. If the proposer of this law does not know who is the legitimately authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, ask Mr Sabic. He sits in front of him every day and has time to ask him, given that Mr. Sabic, as a resolute minister who regulates this issue, has come up with one solution. Therefore, the matter is also simple. We have submitted an amendment (Cvetkovic, and before that), asking that the number of MPs be determined according to the number of votes received by political parties and coalitions. So DOS has the opportunity to resolve the issue of its mandates within its coalition, but he doesn't want it. Why? Because, meanwhile, phantom parliamentary groups were formed; and it would not be a problem if the Law on the Selection of MPs had been applied and the issues asked by the SPS since April of last year had been resolved. If someone for eight or nine months doesn't want to solve any of the questions that we ask, doesn't solve the issue of five disputed mandates, throughout that period finds administrative and other obstacles not to solve it, then we have nothing to talk about right, justice and respect for the law. That's the basic problem with this law, and the proposer doesn't need to explain it at all. We know what the point is. The point is to increase even the number of mandates the DOS received. It's a little bit 174. It's small, because that 174 obviously doesn't provide what DOS needs in the Federal Assembly, and that's all that's going to be done. The results from December 2000 are clear here. I mentioned it yesterday and there's no need to repeat it. It is clear which political parties and coalitions participated in the elections. By applying this law, where parliamentary groups become holders of the right to obtain a mandate, we are completely changing the election will of citizens. Yesterday, I challenged the question of the 13 mandates of the MPs who resigned. It's outrageous, it's unknown. Someone resigned, made a written statement about it, and in the meantime one committee finds that it is not valid; plus a dozen disputed mandates. When the number of votes that individual coalitions or parties received in relation to the number of mandates is divided, about 14,000 votes each. Then you know how many thousands of people are threatened by this and that it represents an example of human rights violations. This damaged 287,000 Serbian voters. If this lustration law is passed, will the law enforcement officer be lustrated for this? Of course he will. This is the most radical example of human rights violations and fundamental human rights, the right to choose, and the proposer obviously doesn't care about that. We have submitted this amendment with a desire to try to correct this fundamental, systemic error of this law and that is why we have also suggested that the basis for the allocation of the mandate be the votes of December 2000. Everything else is a farce, a clean policy and a very specific interest of DOS. The problems within the DOS coalition are none of our business. We're concerned with our mandates. It is little that we have stolen five mandates in the Republic Assembly, but we are stealing two more mandates in the future community, and that is why we have submitted this amendment, that this fundamental irregularity, to correct that theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26128	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26129	For the sake of the public, I have to talk about the amendment to Article 5, even though we have an amendment that I am sure to talk about, but it is said here that we are actually trying to create a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or whatever it is called. That's not true at all and it can't be achieved by any of our amendments to accept. It can't be achieved. It's a few amendments. The Serbian Radical Party is not at all interested in the number of mandates and is not the basis of our amendments. Our basis for writing amendments is to respect justice, to respect electoral will and to prove to us that you are thinking about democracy. What can I tell you when after so many years of multi-party in Serbia, after the five-October revolution, you write a bill saying MPs can only be MPs. Where are the other citizens of Serbia? Where is their right to choose and be chosen? For two years, you have deprived all Serbian citizens of the right to choose and be elected. It's all clear here, and just now, the bill's legislator has defended the amendments more than the bill. At one point, he even said that parliamentary groups do not constitute a criterion for the strength of political parties that are in parliament and that is absolutely correct. He instructed us that in a few months, the Constitutional Court would be able to decide whether this law was constitutional or not. What constitutional court? You didn't even predict the constitutional court of the community of states. Given the data that the Constitutional Court of Serbia is working, it is clear that no court will take this law for as long as it lasts, because if we had a constitutional court he would have responded to cries about how the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated in the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court would already answer whether the resignations of 13 MPs, established by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and produced by new MPs in the Serbian Parliament, could annul the Administrative Board, put outside the legal force of resignation established at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's meeting and also write that they had done so in legal error. Another man could kill someone and say, "I was in a legal delusion that you wouldn't catch me." Don't even point us at the Constitutional Court anymore, because there's no more justice. The solution in the Serbian Parliament and what the citizens hear about this speaker is a constitutional court and a standard for everything. On October 5th, you set fire to the Federal Assembly building by saying that you were doing it because an election theft was carried out. It had the Federal Election Commission sitting in it. Now someone needs to start the Republic Assembly because electoral theft is being carried out at this time, because one electoral list, which has won a number of MPs and should be represented by that percentage in the so-called Assembly. The new states, they won't have as many MPs as they rightly belong to them because you're making up parliamentary groups. I ask you, is there a new parliamentary group being established in a month? Are we going to make new elections here for MPs in the Assembly, after you've given everything into the hands of the parliamentary groups? That works for you right now. It was also appropriate for those who, before you, ended the electoral will of the citizens and stole -- that's where they came from. How come you don't learn from other people's mistakes? But don't learn negatively, but learn. Don't apply their methods more brutally because you think you have the support of the West. You'll be out of that support in no time. You're destroying that support because you can't prove to anyone in the West that you need to support the mafia and democracy. You can't do that anymore, because there's no Milosevic left, against whom all the funds were allowed. Now they decide between you. Whoever shows up behind this speaker as closer to democracy will have greater support for the West. That's why you're "goofing" among yourselves. We don't need that support. We never counted on them. We prove ourselves in life and in this pay phone. We are now proving to you that democracy is on the other side. Democracy is on the right, and you left, you have no idea what democracy is and you will never implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26130	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Justice Committee has not accepted this amendment. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? Here's a word for Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26131	Article 5 is probably the most complicated member we'll all argue about when it comes to this law. Article 5 speaks, as we have heard from the predecessors, who are the owners of the mandate and how these mandates will be distributed. The DSS amendment goes in the direction of choosing this first position because we moved it to Article 3, as my colleague Petar Cvetkovic explained yesterday, at the end of the working day. This is the only time I can say it again. Article 3 says MPs are elected from the ranks of MPs and federal MPs from both council members, according to the number of mandates the political party had at the time of the December 2000 elections. So the point of Article 5 is deleted because it goes into Article 3. In Section 2, where it is said that the Administrative Board will conduct the elections, we "mbassies" replace it with the word "political parties" and it will appear in all our amendments throughout the law, so that it will not be necessary for each member to go out and explain. It's just a different concept. The "Serbian Reform" parliamentary group is proposing parliamentary groups as mandate holders, and the DSS political parties. Expect a series of technical amendments in that direction. What is particularly important, and many have been able to forget -- if when the mandate is allocated, after the distribution takes place on Dont's system, we come into a hypothetical situation to remain one more term and the two political parties have the same ratio, the DSS suggests that the draw determine which of the two parties will be given the mandate. In our opinion, there's simply no other way. That's the only thing that would be fair. This is also done when it comes to sports competitions and all possible segments of life. That is why we are surprised by the amendment of the government, which is likely to come after this amendment, where the government proposes that the largest party be given the mandate in this case. Why? For what? This is not really clear to us, but it once again speaks to the way in which the thin ruling majority of this assembly is bowed down, since it is not in a position to elect a citizen to provide a sufficient number of mandates to rule, to gather one by one foreign MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26132	The word has the minister of local self-government, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26133	Just one explanation. Mrs. Aleksic spoke on behalf of the applicants of the amendment over and over again about one problem that is possible, evident. So it's always possible that by applying Dont's system, there's a situation where a few of the proposings have the same coefficient, and there's not enough mandates to be shared. The DSS was looking for a solution that was possible, looking for it in the bushes. From the point of view of fairness, it is one solution with which it is difficult and lenient; the government has defined itself as another solution, which Mrs. Alexic seems to me, and has overly irrevocably assessed. I think it's too much to explain, gentlemen and ladies here know it, it's one of the formulas within a proportional electoral system that seems logically to favour a stronger one. It's nothing ugly, it's such a formula. In many election laws in the world, the solution offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia is. So, the Serbian government has proposed a solution present in many election laws that measure Dont's formula for the allocation of mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26134	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DOS-Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26135	With this amendment, Democratic Party of Serbia MPs only want to prevent theft and theft. Stealing and thieving take place by changing the election will of citizens from 2000 to 2000, ending as it suits those who wish to continue the rule of Milosevic and his political followers in Montenegro, as they will do in the future, Djukanovic and Djindjic, by continuing to destroy the common state, share the prey. And whether they're going to smuggle together or not like before, including everything else, we're going to see it, but it's not going to be much different from what we've had so far. With this amendment, the Democratic Party of Serbia only wants citizens' will to be respected to the end and would, of course, prevent the theft of parliamentary mandates in this parliament. Why can parliamentary groups not be the ones who participate in the elections for MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly? Of course, it shows that, although the elections are also open to elections, MP groups can not participate, but parties and groups of citizens, all as defined in Article 3. Here we have a paradox that the electoral law is headed for thieving and stealing. If you're rooting for thieving and stealing, you're nothing but thieves. The Democratic Party of Serbia is just trying to protect you from being what comes from thieving and stealing, not stealing mandates, but respecting the electoral will of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26136	People's Messenger, I warn you to take care of what you say and not to insult the Messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26137	You need to respect the will of the citizens who brought you to this congregation. These same citizens voted for you, for the PDS, which lost its mandate, for one Dusan Golubovic, who was on the Democratic Party of Serbia, and then sold himself to the Democratic Party; they voted for all others who sold the will of the citizens and who sold "faith for dinner". But let's talk about why MP groups can't be the ones running for office. MP groups are not electoral works. They only exist in parliaments to facilitate the functioning of parliament and their composition is a variable category. A variable category cannot be the basis for creating a legal norm. The legal standard must be made up of a solid and unchangeable category in order to have legal certainty. MP groups are a variable category, at least in the Serbian parliament we know well -- how to think about buying some MPs, that's how a new parliamentary group forms. Does anyone in parliament know how many parliamentary groups we have now and what MPs make up a group of MPs? Hardly. That's hardly the Secretary of Parliament can determine. New parliamentary groups will be formed for these elections, so we have one rasomoniade in the Serbian parliament with parliamentary clubs. All that says is that that way you can't determine the law. It cannot be one variable category, as the MP group has been created as a result of theft and thieving, to be the basis for normation in law. It could be a party. The party took part in the elections and the party can run for MPs. Can the parliamentary group participate in Serbia's parliament elections? He can't, of course, ladies and gentlemen. He can participate in your elections, for your parliament of virtual Serbia. For the virtual Serbian parliament, MP groups, various other fictional works, can also include Mickey Mouse, Paja Patak and all those you in this parliament want to make. But in one normal state, the parties participate in the elections. That is why this DSS amendment must be accepted, if the citizens' will is to be respected. If you wish to honor the will of Djukanovic and Djindjic, you will vote for such a law; I do not dispute it with anyone. You then give for the right of sale, kidnapping, military destruction and all that in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. So I appeal to all those who want the state community to succeed as a state community and a common state, and in three years' time, which is the wish of some, it becomes a much tighter common creation than it is now. This kind of parliament will not bring it to us, but it will only be a source of conflict, manipulation and further trade in mandates. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia considers such solutions to be absolutely irresponsible, contrary to the Constitutional Charter and the intentions of the creators of the future state union.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26138	The word came from the deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, MP Sinisa Mitrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26139	Dear fellow MPs, obviously we are attending the second episode of yesterday's show, which began with categories of theft and crime. Since fellow Michael has urged us to be self-aware, I would only repeat that such frustration and such separation of institutions is inconsistencies and incompatible with the ideology that you require. Therefore, I would advise that we stop with such categories and that we really have an argument -- which is the institution of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26140	There's no basis for replication, he just asked you to respect the institution. You don't, but come on, I'm really interested in what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26141	Mr Mitrovica, if you are creating new parliamentary groups by taking the mandates you call the strengthening of institutions, I think that this is the only way to strengthen Zoran Djindjic; you are not strengthening the Serbian parliament or any other institution. You're strengthening the absolute dictatorial power that is devastationing this country. Your responsibility and your self-awareness, Mr Mitrovica, I am looking at you from this place, and you and your party know very well what it means to strengthen Slobodan Milosevic and some other institutions, as well as what it means to fight crime, which is not in Serbia. I know very well, Mr. Mitrovica, what you did and how you did, and your party's political biography says very well. Don't tell us about the consolidation of institutions, because you sold the election will of the citizens in 1993, by leaving the former DEPOS and giving support to Slobodan Milosevic, who dragged this Serbia back for four years. Your responsibility was then, and then you joined those who won the election. Mr. Mitrovica, I don't think you're the right person to talk about the construction and consolidation of institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26142	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of Parliament Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment, as well as the Committee on Justice and Administration. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26143	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of the 5th amendment by the SRS parliamentary group, are one of the key, if not the most crucial member of the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. May I have your attention for the arguments you've already heard in the principle debate and in the debate so far in particular. Before explaining the amendment, I would just like to draw your attention to the SRS' distractions, which advocates the principle that MPs are elected in proportion to the number of MPs who won the vote in the elections held on 23 December 2000 and 10 January 2001. We don't have a colossal motive. We will get as many MPs as we should percent in this House, based on our results in the 2000 elections. Thank God, we didn't face the problem of apostates in the parliamentary group. Once upon a time, there was that with us. We know what the consequences are. In principle and for this reason, and primarily because of voter respect, because of the preservation of the legal system, we insist on it through all our amendments and through the principle debate that MPs are chosen not by a proportion of the number of MPs that MPs have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but rather by a proportion of MPs who won the vote in 2000. You've always advocated respect for the will of the voters, at least declaratively. I remember in 1996, you walked the streets of Belgrade for days, demanding that the voter's will be respected, that those local elections be annulled. Every time you appear in public about the election, you announce and announce, and now we get this lustration law, that all judges who, at the same time, participated in election thefts should be lustrated. Why are you legalizing election thefts in this House now? Make up your mind about one or the other and don't fool the Serbian public. If you take a closer look at the Rules of Procedure, members of the 37th to 40th are dealing with the competences of parliamentary groups, you will see that we do not have a foothold in our Rules of Procedure for such a bill as the legislator has given. It simply doesn't say anywhere that a parliamentary group should do what the law says. We have a situation that the political reality, as some of the positions here have said, is quite different than it was after the 2000 elections, but this is the result of political trade. We should not legalise this political trade now, but at least for this speaker to condemn it and be branded as such, even for some future compositions of this parliament, to serve us for science and for the future. But we will have problems here that will cause certain consequences, because you do not say that before the Constitutional Court we have launched some initiatives related to the status of individual MPs. I ask you, will it reflect on the parliamentary mandates of the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. What if, although the Constitutional Court's decision was prejudged here yesterday, that the decision should be such that the consequences will end the term of office of the new parliamentary group in which the outlaws of the Socialist Party or Velya's outlaws from New Serbia are at the MP club "Serbia". What if they can no longer be MPs based on the Constitutional Court's decision, and in the meantime they have become... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. Is it then a reflection of the will of the citizens and the results of the 2000 elections and what repercussions they will all have. I call on you once again, and I ask you, indeed, the Legislative Committee and the Honorable Mr Pitiæ never again to write or sign that report in which it says that some amendment should be rejected; it can be proposed that it be accepted by the Assembly, not accepted or rejected in specific cases. I pray that this is not how it affects the MPs of the people, because I suppose the MPs still respect the opinion of such a respected lawyer. Then they do not pay attention to these amendments for which the Legislative Committee has proposed that they be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26144	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26145	We suggest you accept this amendment, because by accepting this amendment you avoid many inconveniences. First, by accepting the amendments, you will have a larger parliamentary majority to vote on. I warn you, with these 128, 129 forced, including 13 non-members, you will question the implementation of this law following the first decision of the first real Serbian Constitutional Court. Maybe it's this one in this band, too, I don't know. You insulted Professor Lilic, I'm sorry he's not here, but now I see he's not here. You wrote that the professor of the Faculty of Law, Stevan Lilic, was in legal error when he resigned. The question is, can a professor of law school be in legal error? Secondly, this lustration law should write that all professors of law colleges who have been in legal error can no longer be professors of law school; either you insult him, or he was not in legal error, and you are reducing his legal quality most likely to possess. You're saying he can afford to be in legal error. Imagine the professor of the Faculty of Civil Engineering, who is in construction error, constructing a bridge, and the bridge collapses. It'd be about that level. We've received a report from the Justice and Administration Committee. I suggest we disband him. We do not need reports from the Justice Committee, because since this assembly of the National Assembly, the Committee for Justice and Administration has proposed that we accept amendments from the Government and Cedomir Jovanovic. We don't need a Justice and Administration Committee for that. We know you'll accept that without him. Constantly, on the 100 proposals that we have here, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Justice and Administration say, we accept everything that Chad and the Government have written, we reject or propose not to accept what the MPs write. What exactly is the objective of this amendment? To ensure that the electoral lists represented here transfer their proportionate representation from this parliament to the Parliament of the Assembly of the Community, as you call it. Nothing more. They don't end the election will, they just confirm it. Last checked, the certified will of the people was on 23 December 2000 and 10 January 2001. What's done in the Assembly is the will of the DOS. This principle by which you choose here is not Dont's, this is DOS's principle. You should even make changes and additions and Dont's principles, because you and you can, and you have the majority to change Dont's principle. The car's slowly squeaking and they're starting to stop. You're aware of that. What happens if those who are not Members here, and they are not, someone goes to that parliament, so when the Constitutional Court annuls their mandate... And you're right about the DOS, what a state such as that and parliament, so we don't go out to warn you about constitutionality and legality at all. You yourself have said everything in that statement, what a state such as this and Parliament. I'd like it to be an affirmative, orderly state, transparent government, fair authority, democracy. Don't make me think that the word democracy comes from the Greek word demos and Serbians to be cut short. That would then be the end of all the principles on which today's world rests. Accept this amendment and you will avoid major problems, and you will not have to dirty the cheek and judges of the Constitutional Court, as some of you are going out of this congregation at any moment to wash themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26146	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment, the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. The word is made by MP Milos Lukic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26147	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, by adopting amendments to Article 5 of this bill, the member would say that MPs were elected by a proportion of MPs who had on the day of the education of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What is the purpose of this amendment? The goal is for the proportional system, by which the 2000 elections for this assembly and implemented, to remain consistently applied until the end, as, of course, MPs are chosen in proportion to the number of votes their MPs have received. The voters then had electoral lists and they did not individually round the names of MPs, so now this new story about these mandates being inalienable, etc., can pass, but for a future time, when election regulations change. According to the current regulations, according to which this congregation is established, it is no different. It is true that the voter's will has changed, but in the opposite direction. If it were to be seen, then the Federal Parliament would look completely different. However, we remain in the process of respecting the will of voters from December 2000. As for this debate, which takes a long time and revolves around, we also think it would be good if the DOS in that original form moved to another room and agreed on the distribution of its mandates, not to bother both the public and this assembly with mutual bickering. Also, parliamentary groups formed at the beginning, or established at the very beginning of the assembly, should withdraw and give their candidates to the parliament of the community of states. We'd avoid this painful argument of insults, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26148	Are any of the other participants in the debate answering for a word? He has the floor of MP Petar Petrovic, deputy president of the Soviet Parliament group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26149	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has submitted this amendment for purely practical reasons. Namely, there are now some parliamentary groups in this assembly with just as many MPs as necessary to form a parliamentary group. In the case of God, for any reason, if there were a reduction in the number of MPs in these parliamentary groups, they would not be able to find MPs to add the number needed to form a parliamentary group. Then the price of MPs in this assembly would reach a very high situation, and there would again be a harsh violation of the will of Serbian citizens, which was shown in the 2000 elections. We believe that by accepting this amendment, it is precisely a reflection of the will of the Serbian citizens expressed in the December 2000 elections, and now that the DOS majority did not want, or should not, to call direct elections to elect MPs to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We think it would be best and only right to reflect the will of the citizens shown, as I said, in the December 2000 elections. Every different procedure and different mode of work is a harsh violation of Serbia's express will in the December month elections and thus wants to keep at all costs the majority in the future federal parliament, which we also believe will not survive for long, because if Serbian citizens have not already wondered if they want to live in such a state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then it would be logical to at least remain that will, the painted will of citizens, since December 2000. The formation of a parliamentary group in January 2001 was precisely a reflection of the percentage of votes received by parties and coalitions that came out in December 2000 and thus gave the number of MPs the right to these parties and coalitions to form parliamentary groups in that number. What is now happening in the Serbian Parliament is that I think it will serve legal theorists to write some legal history, after some time, as they break the basic norms of the law that regulate the choice of MPs and that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is being violated. I have had the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to hear on one committee whose member I am one of these formulas for those ladies and gentlemen who have resigned irrevocably as MPs in the Republic Assembly - that they have been in legal error. I'm afraid that if this formulation were to be transmitted wider, anyone who made any mistake in any action could call on this famous act of the Administrative Committee and say - I was in legal error and I didn't know I couldn't do it. That is why we are asking you and asking you to accept this amendment to the Soviet Union, because we think that this way, as much as possible, will respect the standards of positive regulations and respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, which was expressed in the December 2000 elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26150	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the Proposer's representative accept this? Acceptance. I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. There's a word from MP Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26151	Since the previous amendment has been accepted, there is no point in even talking about amendments anymore, but let me say a few words, maybe something can change. With this amendment, I am trying to remove the lack of record in this law, and it is in Article 5. I'm trying to solve the situation when in that system the largest coefficients eventually find a larger number of equal factors, which is quite possible. For example, those who handled these numbers in all MPs’ groups saw that The ratio of 2.55 appears on four and in one variant in five places. We can tell by different large numbers, for example. 89 terms of office. How do you choose two mandates, because it takes a total of 91, as you know, of those four same factors? The government predicted it, but in one missing way, in my opinion. Because you only predicted the case of one term, and it's two, and there may be three mandates. Then how do you choose them? It's not in yours, it's said in my amendment, because I remained consistent with the formula we introduced at first, and that's Dont's ratio. You've actually moved from one formula to another, from Dont's ratio to the formula of the largest parliamentary group, although the meaning of my amendment is exactly the same, since the system of Dont's coefficient is actually the one that pushes for larger parliamentary groups. Look closely, Mr. Minister, you will see that my amendment has covered all possible situations that may arise, while your only one situation has covered, when it comes to only one mandate. So I ask you once again to think and accept this amendment, it's just a simple account, and nothing else. Actually, there's no philosophy here. I'm undermining once again that it's the exact same meaning and intent of one and another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26152	Minister of Local Self-Government and State Administration Mr. Rodoljub Sabic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26153	First, I apologize to Mr. Huric for leaving my post the moment he came out for the pay phone, that didn't mean I didn't want to hear him, I had the opportunity to hear him twice, both on the Justice Committee and on the Legislative Committee. A fellow Huric is obviously a good mathematician. I tried to explain to him that the government amendment defines the rule, which solves a situation where there are not as many available mandates as there are the same factors. This rule is applied in every specific situation. So we're going to apply it one more time, and then one more time. In one word, there's no paved gap. It is known how it is handled in a situation where two or more parties can get fewer mandates than they belong to the ratio.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26154	I thank the minister. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Bojana Alexic, representative of the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26155	This is a very important amendment, because it's been an extremely important deadline since the elections are under way. If any parliamentary group, political party or political group fail to submit a timely proposal for candidates for MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly can remain without all mandates and their mandates will be deployed to other parties. That's why we think he's an inaccurate member of the 6th, so we're trying to formulate him in a better way. In our opinion, it should read: "The President of the National Assembly calls for a session at which the election of MPs will be held, no later than eight days before the day of the meeting (this is what the bill says and now we add instead of the point of continuation) and determines when the deadlines for the electoral actions begin." In our opinion, it's a much clearer formulation and we really don't understand why the board didn't accept it. We think the amendment is completely in place; we're just making better sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26156	People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26157	With this amendment, we're just about to specify when and how electoral action begins. He doesn't change the essence, but something slightly affects the procedure provided for by this law. Teached by experience, and we have also warned about this when the Law on the Election of the President of the Republic was adopted, where a deadline was left for the President of the Assembly to decide when to call the elections and everything else, means one completely unclear and open situation, which leaves the possibility of arbitrary interpretation so that someone's political will, through the law itself, is fully illegal and constitutionally defined, we want this amendment to be defined only when elections start to take place and nothing fundamentally changes there. It is only defined when electoral actions begin to take place, in order to prevent the self-will of anyone when implementing and setting deadlines for carrying out these actions and, of course, to protect this assembly and citizens from the individual’s will at all, and yet that is of interest to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26158	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, we have been discussing for two days the draft law tabled by the non-existent parliamentary group at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, on February 7, 2003, 109 MPs, many of whom have long since, more precisely since 12 June 2002, when they resigned, are no longer MPs, a proposal from the DOS parliamentary group to convene the Third Extraordinary Session to discuss the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament has been tabled. The DOS parliamentary group has fallen apart a long time ago, just as your coalition has fallen apart and as everything in the country has been falling apart since this former DOS, and now regrouped various parties and foreigners, in power. I would like you to explain once already to the citizens of Serbia, as president of the Assembly, and then the one who submitted this bill and signed it -- how it is possible that the non-existent parliamentary group is calling for this session to be called in; and what is possible for you to once - Reform, and the second time you are called - Serbia's Reforms. That's exactly what the amendment I submitted to article 7. The law on the election of MPs in the future state union, which was eventually created, because the so-called so-called "constitutional" was voted against. The Constitutional Charter, and Article 7 speaks of something that neither the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia nor the legislation, or the Law on the selection of MPs. When you went to the election in 2000, ladies and gentlemen MPs, and especially you from a long-decomposed DOS, you went on the DOS list - Vojislav Kostunica. All of you were brought to power by Vojislav Kostunica, and helped you all to take up all of these leading and key positions in the country. Now, of course, he failed, first of all in the elections that failed, he lost his chair, or he'll be gone soon. And as for you from the parliamentary groups and groups that were subsequently formed, and many of them and contrary to the Law of Choice, because of the passing of one MP to another non-existent group, because of their previous exclusion from the parent parties, and because of the privilege and all that you offer to artificially maintain the assembly majority, we are today in one paradoxal situation. First of all, that we have non-existent parliamentary groups, that we have people - citizens of Serbia who are long gone, and that you want a parliamentary group, as a way of self-organising MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to put as someone who will be sworn to elect MPs to submit a proposal for the election of MPs in the future assembly of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Not only does the law not know that term - the parliamentary group, the law by which you went to the elections, but it is not only hypothetical - in such a constitution, the way you rule, the way you pressure, blackmailing, flying MPs from one MP to another - it is quite possible that a day of election of MPs in that assembly of the Serbia-Montenegro community will take place further parceling and creating new parliamentary groups. As for the bill that you had to withdraw from the procedure, the amendment came from a certain Bratislava Đuric, who presented himself as Mr. Bratislav Đuric of the Labour Party of Serbia, it is perfectly normal to expect, because of the manner in which you blackmailed or otherwise pressured those in one way or another to move into your country and the non-existent parliamentary majority, to submit among others a proposal for the election of MPs in the future assembly of the Serbia-Montenegro community and the party or parliamentary group of the Natural Law Party, so to speak. Yogi flyers. For who will guarantee us that you will not set up such a group of MEPs in a few days - yoga fliers and that they will not have the opportunity to submit proposals for the election of MPs. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. Here, I'm done. If it was clear that you went out and then had a fight and your coalition fell apart on the DOS list - Vojislav Kostunica, then accept it as reality. You DOS gentlemen, you, Mr. Jovanovic, who signed under the non-existent parliamentary group, should know that by such an overmining, you will in no way be able to save Zoran Djindjic, or yourself, because from today until May 29th, he is very close, and then he will be on the people's side with both of whom.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26160	Please, the right to replica has a National MP, Bratislav Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know what context Miss or Mrs Jovanovic mentioned my name and the Labour Party of Serbia. If it's a matter of certain ignorance, I'm prepared to try to explain to you right now... Yes, that, if you don't know, you should know that the Association of Free and Independent Unions was a member of the Alliance for Change, a member of the DOS, as such participated in the elections, and accordingly I became... I'll explain to you, MP in Parliament. If you don't know the other thing -- on October 5, 2002, at the Second Congress of the Association of Free Independent Unions, the union organisation made a decision to form a political wing called the Labour Party of Serbia. Mr. Sabic is not here right now, but there are also congregation archives, and that's what I have here in my bag, so on November 15th, the Labour Party of Serbia is registered in the resolution ministry. Exactly. So, the DOS presidency, at the request of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, has decided to take over the Labour Party of Serbia in further political work of the Association of Free and Independent Unions, at its request. I believe you don't know that, because you weren't invited, nor were you guests at the Second Congress of the Association of Free and Independent Unions. I believe you know now and that it's much clearer to you now. As far as other matters are concerned, I understand what Mr. Vukic and you mention this topic several times today, because several hundred, but honest, radicals have already joined the Labour Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26162	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, so he will use the right to reply, and you will not be denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume you know this part of world history, but let me remind you that Al Capone ruled America through the union. We have suggested that Article 7 be deleted. The bill, which reads: "A proposal for the election of MPs on behalf of the authorised promoter is submitted by the president of the parliamentary group in the National Assembly". Carefully reading the bill's proposal, we found who the MPs are, what the Constitutional Charter is further, what is in the text of the parliamentary group, but we found no explanation for the authorised promoter. It remains unclear who will interpret it. To start deadlines tomorrow, and they will start from the day of publication of this law in the official list, when it is adopted, I must ask the President of the Assembly, whose proposal will be accepted as a proposal from the authorising officer. It will receive a proposal from the president of the parliamentary group, but it must have a ID from an authorised promoter. I am now very interested in who is the mandated promoter for the DOS, for the DOS parliamentary group, who is the mandated legislator for the SPS parliamentary group and for other constituted parliamentary groups that have not even participated in the elections. Who's the authorized promoter? I know who the president of the parliamentary group is, but from whom does he draw his authority? Furthermore, the election proposal is submitted by the president of the parliamentary group. Who's he putting up with? Why isn't the law written to who? Is he gonna turn over at the port? He wants to take it to the restaurant? Will the Administrative Committee, the Legislative, the Justice Committee, the President of the Assembly, act as Head of State, whom? If it endures on someone's behalf, it must bear the authority of it in whose name it endures. What is the relationship under the Law on selecting Members of the People? The electoral list is co-operated by its authorised representative, the Republic Election Commission and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Elections are submitted, elections are held, the Republic Election Commission sets out its final report on the results of the elections. Election-list applicants shall submit a list of MPs within the number of MPs they belong to. The Republic Election Commission reports to the National Assembly that candidates have signed to accept the candidacy and the National Assembly is verifying the mandates. It is a simplified procedure and these are the holders of certain functions that appear in the elections. There's no proposing authority, no president of the parliamentary group. This article is so vague that it can't even be implemented. Tomorrow I ask you, on whose behalf will the legislator, who is also president of a parliamentary group, submit a proposal for a candidate for MPs? And if he decides on whose name he'll take it, where he'll take it. Here, and we are interested in this law and on whose behalf will Professor Vojislav Seselj submit and whom will he take the proposal to? I guess you have a little bit of legal knowledge that something you call law looks like law. I understand that the Rules of Procedure do not look like legal norms because you wrote it that you did not like the Serbian Radical Party at any time. That's how you found the basis for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure and for shortening democracy, but now it's a law that's going to be implemented for two years. Some of his provisions are historical and will cease after the first election, and some will be passed maybe 15 times, x times. After every disbandment of the assembly, and there will be disbandment, I guarantee you, we will enforce this law of choice, because it is written so. How are we going to carry him out? Why didn't the government react to such a bad bill? What did the government do when it was already giving amendments, which didn't go into the whole bill? It deepened in the distribution of one term, if one case occurs that will happen in a million years, and has not deepened in the members of the laws that are directly opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the original law, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, because in this law, you refer us to many of the actions that are not defined here on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26164	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you won't mind me, at first I want to ask one question to Dejan Mihajlov, because, when he replicated the other from the Democratic Party, he said -- the last ten years President Milosevic has dragged the country back, so I ask him if Kostunica has been informed whether he should start pulling back, forward, left or right. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to Article 7. We wanted to supplement this article in order to be clear and not create any confusion in the application of this law in practice. Article 7 states: "The proposal for the election of MPs on behalf of the authorising officer shall be submitted by the president of the parliamentary group in the National Assembly". We only propose to know what group it is, that it is a group of political parties or coalitions that participated in the 2002 elections, while others suggest the list's groups in the 2000 elections. If we formulate this member on our proposal, there would be no problem in applying this law in practice. We just wanted to know what kind of group it was, because there are various groups, such as a group of hunters, a group of fishermen, a group of folk singers or a group of people's socialists. Today is such a time, you set up a group, and it is not forbidden, but I hope it should not happen in parliament because the rules of the games are clear, it is known how MPs are elected. Today in this room we are discussing, although it is clear to everyone what this law should look like. If this question were to be asked to the children in the first grade of primary school, it would be settled in five minutes. I must admit that I was hoping this law would resolve issues in parliament and stop the circus with the MPs so far, that in three years of Parliament's work, there is no telling which MPs. There are MPs who have resigned, there are MPs who are excluded from their parties, there are MPs who have "flighted" that is, changed the party, there are MPs who have formed a new party and in the old party they are excluded, and that is not the problem. We're not mad. All these things I've listed, MPs can do. They can do other Members' jobs, but they can't continue to be MPs. Here's the key. There are a number of people who have acquired the habit of being with authority, no matter who is in power, it's only important that they do well and benefit from it. We are Parliament and all interferences and manipulations need to be lifted. The bill promoter responds to this condition, but only while you're in power, because these same people keep a return ticket in their pocket when you're not in power. In the end, this is like two boxers coming into the ring and boxing three rounds, and in the end, the judge declares the winner of the boxer who sat in the locker room and wasn't in the ring. Lately, we've had a lot of articles on thefts. It's been written about various thefts in Serbia, but I didn't think it should be done in parliament. In the end, I'd like to suggest - if we can't negotiate on the mandate, it's best to call the godfather of this country, Solana, he'll do the best he can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26166	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26167	My fellow MPs, from the Democratic Party, warn me - seek their mandates because they belong to you. That's exactly what I'm doing. The amendment tabled by counterpart Peric, or explained on behalf of a group of MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, is precisely aimed at showing what the Serbian citizens demonstrated in December 2000 and what is a realistic reflection of the will of the citizens of Serbia of December 2000, to be the basis for the number of mandates that the parties or parliamentary groups have in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as well. We have a paradoxical situation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that there are parliamentary groups that did not participate in the elections, and now formed parliamentary groups are entitled to mandates in the future Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. The non-application of the Law on the selection of MPs has artificially changed the ratio of forces that Serbian citizens have established with their votes. In fact, the mandate of MPs is being applied to an absolute double archival. Since April last year, we Socialists have been asking for the mandates that we received in 2000 and we believe that our right is absolutely legitimate and that there is a brightness of evidence that supports our right. However, the Administrative Committee did not want to decide. This shows the intention of the congregation’s majority not to resolve the matter. At the same time, however, we have witnessed that the Administrative Committee has addressed the issue of disputed mandates of individual parties within the DOS, which also had their own internal problems. For example, former colleagues of Karaičić and stayed one day or night wiped out through the Administrative Committee from this assembly, for the simple reason that they opposed or remained in the minority in these internal problems, but the Administrative Committee then did not seek additional documents, additional evidence, did not take account of the law, not to the extent to which he sought it in the case of the other MPs. The concern that the promoter is showing to some MPs here is also, unfortunately, false. We were in a position to experience in this assembly that a Social Democracy MP would be given a mandate, although the minister of justice and local self-government then sent a letter to the National Assembly and to the Administrative Committee, asking that the mandate not be taken until the Serbian Supreme Court has reached a final decision on the mandate because there could be irreparable damages. It was completely ignored, because it was a thing inside DOS, so it had to clear up relations within DOS. At the same time, lectures are held and talk about some concern for MPs, about how nothing needs to be changed, about how electoral will is like that -- it's the current relationship of strength. We are aware that the current relationship of power served the motionor as a fundamental feature of this law. However, it is not enough for the promoter either. It is obviously necessary to provide for the necessary mandates, as is the case here in the Assembly in order to form phantom parliamentary groups, in order to provide support for the vote of individual laws. Thus, additional mandates should be provided for the future assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, of course, to vote what the DOS needs. So, by ignoring the facts and not applying the law, it is simply an orderly relationship in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and based on this caucus relationship, based on this illegal relationship that wants to distribute mandates. For us socialists, the thing is very simple. With 37 mandates, as far as we're concerned, based on the election results, we should have 14 MPs. At 32, since our five were stolen, we have 12. That's what you should know. So, two terms of office are being stolen. Finally another question - does anyone in this assembly know, starting with the president of the National Assembly, who announces it to us as a speaker, how many MP groups we have - 9, 10, 11, 13, 15 and whether all the parliamentary groups promoted through this assembly speaker will participate in the allocation of mandates or will one fictitious parliamentary group be formed with 127 mandates and serve as the basis for calculating the other mandates? And that's stealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26168	National MP Stevan Guduric, an authorised representative of the National Socialist Group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26169	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, if they already want some colleagues from this pay phone to promote a group of National Socialists, I will only say that, unfortunately for them, the group of people's Socialists is significantly bigger than the newly formed Belgrade Socialist Party. I understood that there was a convention there for a 50-year-old and it became a Belgrade Socialist Party, and I am sure that the group of National Socialists is significantly bigger than that group. As for the authorities, let me explain something to you, I have no desire to be with power. In Beichin we are the power all these years; unlike some heroes, when someone says boo, we don't run away, we stay to be the power still. That's how it's gonna be in Beocino after the next election. The fact that some after Boo don't know where they are, that's their problem, which is also some other stuff they don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26170	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26171	This is a resulting amendment, resulting in two different concepts. We've talked about this more than once yesterday and today. Who will be the applicant of this list of candidates for MPs? Under the draft law tabled by the DOS parliamentary group, Serbia's Reform, it will be president of the parliamentary group. In our opinion and according to our amendment, it should be a People's MP empowered by other MPs from that political party. Again, we come to this termology that, not only for us from the DSS, but also for many others, probably for all those people who are interested in the issue of politics and political parties, is completely unclear. As political parties and coalitions participate in the elections, they alone can be the owners of the mandate. How can mandates be deployed by parliamentary groups and how groups can appear as a subject of political life when they do not participate in the elections, but only technical bodies are designed to make it easier for parties and MPs to function during their work in the National Assembly. It is something that is really not clear, especially if we look at practice earlier in the previous years, and even now, during this term, how many parliamentary groups have formed, how they form and who enters these parliamentary groups. For a year now, there have been totally incredible parliamentary groups, phantom parliamentary groups, parties that have not participated in the elections at all. We don't even know if they exist, they may have one or two members, so some other party loaned them members so they could register with the court, as they did in 1990, when the Socialist Party formed one 50 of those phantom parties to have time in pre-election terms to represent candidates, etc. This practice is being repeated now, only now it's being done by promoting some of the phantom parliamentary groups. What happens if the mandates are divided by, say, the state of the parliamentary groups at this point, and then in five days, there's a transfer, different parliamentary groups are formed, in a different way? So we can change the composition of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly every five days. That way you won't even be able to work. It will be completely unserious and complete farce. The people certainly cannot and will not want to understand or suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26172	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26173	The name of the law is the bill on the selection of MPs. The election of the parliamentary group, as we have spoken, does not take part. The parties and groups of citizens are participating. How, then, can some of the choices you call, which you will organise only as you wish, be attended by parliamentary groups? That's to legalize the theft of mandates. It is clear that the day you take the mandates of New Serbia, the Foreigner of Serbian Unity, is one of our mandates, and it will likely be more if you continue to do so. A variety of pressures will form new parliamentary groups to serve as a legalisation of the abuses committed in this House. Parliament clubs are a variable category -- today they exist, tomorrow they don't exist. We see how many parliamentary groups have been formed for only the last month, how many have ceased to exist. You take one variable category as a foundation and a basis for elections for the state community. This shows that your intention is not to seriously reflect the will of the citizens of this Parliament in the Assembly of the State Community, but rather, that this will of Parliament be re-painted at the will of Zoran Djindjic and Milo Djukanovic, in order to enable the unlimited authority of the same gentlemen, if they can be called so. What happens if some parliamentary group ceases to exist, to whom will its mandates belong? No one. These mandates will remain in the air, probably in your virtual Serbia where you live far from the reality, the public and the citizens who chose you. What happens if new parliamentary groups are formed? Will these parliamentary groups be entitled to some mandates in the National Assembly? He won't. We should now get a list of the parliamentary groups we have in parliament, see if the list and composition of these parliamentary groups will change during these elections. Probably will, you'll probably go to various election geometry, geography, additions and seductions. You took two seats in the Federal Assembly to the SPS, you took two mandates to New Serbia, and then you will add more to your calculations, especially this change in the government's amendment. In the amendment of the Government, Article 5 is amended so that if two parliamentary clubs have the same amount, that mandate is given to a parliamentary club that already has more Members in the state community. This means favouring large ones and that you have already calculated and seen that you have one mandate that should be given to New Serbia as another, and then you have calculated and said - well, now we are going to propose an amendment that will legalize them to steal another mandate; such an amendment we will propose and it will pass so that we can have 47 or 48 mandates. And as you go, you will reach many more MPs if they continue to abuse themselves. Gentlemen, it simply doesn't mean constitutionality and legality, it doesn't mean justice, it doesn't mean creating a state community on sound grounds, it means all the opposite of this. That is why our amendment aims to enable it to be an absolutely true and evenly represented will of Serbian citizens in the parliament of the state union. With no direct elections, if we have indirect elections, these indirect elections must be the result of the 2000 direct elections. They can't be the result of the theft in the Serbian parliament. I guess that's clear as day. Only those who don't want to hear it, won't hear or agree to steal from the Serbian parliament, it's not clear and they're dealing with it. The DSS has given everyone who thinks it is necessary to respect the will of the citizens in this House the opportunity to adopt amendments and to make this law more appropriate to the will of the citizens, such as the Constitution, the law, honor and honesty. If all of this is not in this parliament, we will get the law as it is in the proposal, which will be a picture not of Serbia's citizens, but of the will of a small number of self-restraints in Serbia, who want to ensnar at the federal level and destroy the state union of Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26174	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has a folk MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26175	We've got two things here that we've submitted the amendment for. Firstly, our proposal for an amendment is to amend Article 8 and read as follows: "The proposal for candidates for MPs and their replacements shall be submitted to RIK no later than seven days from the day specified for the election of MPs". Article 8 proposed by the Serbian Parliament's Reform Group does not specify who is to submit the proposal. As the preceding article does not specify the exact time limit, so it does not specify who is to whom it is to be submitted. We assume it was RIK, but it was necessary to specify exactly. This is how we come into a situation where, without any reason, we create doubt and a relationship of mistrust, that we think about why certain things of technical nature are not explicitly mentioned. If someone has not explicitly cited them and has tried to write down members of this law so that they are unclear, in a poor language that can be interpreted in a variety of ways, with a lot of legal voids, then any normal person can conclude only one thing: there is some sort of fly, some kind of bad intentions. I know it's mentioned in Article 10, but it's not a place to mention it. It's supposed to be mentioned here, where you're talking about proposing candidates. The other thing is also a concept of nature. I said, when I spoke about the law in principle, that we in the DSS are our draft law which did not enter the procedure and our amendments envisioned that MPs of the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly should have replacements. Those replacements should be as much as MPs are elected or less, and that is the issue of every political party. In any case, there should be a list of replacements, because for the various reasons provided for by law, the term of office may cease, so each MP should have a replacement. At the end of the RIK line, which would later be a possible replacement for MPs, he must know who replaced the MPs who entered the Assembly of the state union. Especially since we have a slightly more complicated situation, because potential replacements can be from the ranks of the National Assembly and the Greater Citizens and the Greater Republic of the current Federal Assembly. That's why it's necessary to make that list of replacements, and it's easy to join, and I don't know what the problem is, and I really don't know why this amendment couldn't be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26176	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Srdjan Sikimic, at the session of the Legislative Committee, withdrew the amendment to Article 8 which he submitted along with MP Nada Kolundžija. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of New Serbia to Article 8. We asked that the words "electoral groups" be replaced by the words "political parties, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This is primarily in line with the Constitutional Charter and it is very logical in relation to what is happening to us and what we are trying to do the second day to prove that it is just and that it should be applied in this legal project. We insist, which is the only rational thing to respect the citizens' electoral will to the end. It cannot be examined by any other mechanism between the elections, only by the elections. True, if we already mention the election will of citizens in the meantime, after 2000, we have had repeat elections, both local and presidential. Citizens go between 25% and 30%. Those who win the election conditionally with that percentage of turnout have 3% support for the electoral body in fact. It's clearly a political reality. That is why early elections are needed, or it is necessary to respect the clear will of the citizens shown in the 2000 elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26178	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The same article was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 8 and suggested that the words "mbassy groups" be addressed in the words "lers of the electoral lists". According to Article 20. The Charter of Representatives of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is elected from each Member State in accordance with European democratic standards under the laws of the Member States. During the first two years following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, MPs are elected indirectly, in proportion to representation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. The proposed Article 8 is not in agreement, but is contrary to the provisions of Article 20. Constitutional statutes. The Law on selecting Members of Parliament does not provide for this category of parliamentary groups. He only knows the category of election lists that participated in the election for MPs of the previous elections. Therefore, in no case can they be identified, nor do they have the active legitimacy of the parliamentary group. This is an unprecedented and undetected way of indirect elections. Indirect elections used to exist, but it was long abandoned this way of choice. Indirect elections once existed in some countries, but not in such a way as to make the choice of representatives in some other higher congregation bodies. In these countries, there used to be elections through indirect bodies designated for the selection of national representatives. These working bodies, which in this case would be the Republic Election Commission, are shut down at the moment when the election of representatives for certain institutions in one country is held. This member shall not even comply with the provisions of Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. They are citizens, and our citizens are only actively legitimate to choose their representatives without intermediaries. In a concrete case, this could happen, but would be done by the RIK and would propose national representatives to certain legislative institutions, as is the case with the Charter of the planned Serbia-Montenegro community. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia did not choose the MPs to trade them, because the MP is not a commodity of broad spending. The MP is not a commodity of special consumption, with MPs there is no trade, and here, as you can see, you have a number of electoral lists, and you have parliamentary groups at large. Yesterday, I said 126 MPs from 26 political parties will be elected to the Serbia-Montenegro community assembly. As this inflation of parliamentary groups has arisen, it has been created during this term, but with the willless citizens. MP groups have formed in an unprecedented, unacceptable and unconstitutional way. These parliamentary groups can form, but do not have an active legitimacy to participate in the selection of representatives for the Serbia-Montenegro community assembly. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, there is a trade in both members, with that trade perhaps being identified and compared. There was a trade in Montenegro, how much it is to believe in the means of public information, women of certain countries and citizens; but as you can see, we are not immune to that trade, and in Serbia we have trade with the MPs. I don't think this can be tolerated anymore and it's not acceptable. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is not and will not be in favour of such a proposal and will not vote, because it is contrary to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26180	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26181	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, firstly insisting on the words - parliamentary groups, the legislator introduced them into almost every member of the bill, although it was no longer necessary. Although Article 7 states that the proposal is submitted by the president of the parliamentary group, in Article 8, the proposer says "electoral groups can table proposals". If someone had styled it, they would have said - the proposal was submitted within so many days and so many days, and the member would have been perfectly clear. It is unnecessary just this insistence on words -- parliamentary groups, because it only stings our ears that we think MP groups are not legitimate to submit these proposals. There is something else I would like to object to, using the amendment to Article 8. The bill of law, so now, as long as there are those MPs in the O.R., let them feel called. We're having a really big debate over tiny souls. We're not having a debate here about the legal principle, the legal system, constitutionality, unconstitutionalness. There's no argument here for one or another bill, as better quality or less quality. This is where the majority in the Assembly dared to make the selection of MPs in the two states' assembly because of the small souls, because of those who sit low in the parliamentary benches in this hall. You are motivated to have enough MPs there, to build power with Milo Djukanovic at both levels and to convince us that you are doing so to preserve any community between Serbia and Montenegro. I couldn't bear the abundance of material that says that Zoran Djindjic and Milo Djukanovic never wanted it and will never stand for it, for the common state, for any form of community, and that this is just a small luft, a leap. Montenegro should not have been open to separatism, neither should the government in Serbia say - do whatever they want, as the opposition used to say. And now here, because of a few tiny souls, we've been having a debate for two or three days, we're breaking deadlines from the Constitutional Charter, we're interrupting an important emergency session of the Serbian Parliament. Well, with those tiny souls to say what I said and to Mrs. Komic the other day - life lasts a moment, and what you did remains forever written down. It remains on your children, and on your grandchildren, and no one will remember you from being messengers, but that you were defectors, little souls, traitors, that you served as a part of the great parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26182	Are there any more authorized participants in the debate who want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Đođe Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted it. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Bojana Aleksic, on behalf of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26183	This is just a follow-up to the previous story and a follow-up to the story set out in Article 8. etc. I'm going to read Article 9 for the simple reason that this is now a principled remark, and I really can't understand and I can't believe, when these articles are read one by one, they're pretty illiterate and vague, that it's possible that the lawyers who wrote this couldn't do better to style, to write, to make it look like something? Just look at this Article 9 as it sounds: "The proposal by the parliamentary group is valid if it contains the number of candidates elected from the order of that parliamentary group". Who, what, could not be said (I am now talking about the people who wrote this) - the proposal for candidates in the Serbian-Montenegro state union assembly is valid if it contains so many and so many etc. Which means the proposal, what the proposal is; because if you single out this member, you don't even know what it's about, what it's proposing and who's proposing. So every member still needs to list all of this in order to make it look like something. Our amendment, of course, requires not to mention parliamentary groups, but political parties, for reasons I will no longer repeat, and to specify the replacements, i.e. to reintroduce a category of these replacements, because it is not known what will happen if the MP from some parliamentary group ceases his mandate. You know, if it's a political party, then it's clear that the mandate is inherited by a fellow political party who's after him on the list, but we don't have a political party here, we're proposing stories about parliamentary groups. The parliamentary groups are relative and variable, because in them today there are some MPs, tomorrow another, the day after tomorrow that group does not exist, etc. So we are asking that the list, in addition to candidates for MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly, be explicitly mentioned and replaced, with names and last names and statements of acceptance of the candidacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26184	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate come forward for a word? Here's a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26185	Our intention is to establish by the bill that each candidate for MP has his own replacement, in order to bridge one of these laws unregulated situation that can happen. If the term of office of an MP ceases, the parliamentary group of whom he was an MP shall cease to exist, to whom the mandate will then belong; whether the parliamentary group or the party participating in the work of the parliamentary group has a mandate or not. Simply, this is an opportunity to protect the existing mandates of all parliamentary groups and all parties in the future parliament of the state community. So, if the term of office is left to end in the manner provided for by this law and by one of the MPs in question, there is no replacement. It may happen that by re-transmiting parliamentary groups in this House, we are in a situation that simply some of the parties that had MPs, established by this law in the elections that we will have for the assembly of the state community, do not, after that, have not, because again someone has taken MPs from these and put them here, or formed some other parliamentary groups. In this way, we are trying to protect the parties, parliamentary groups and MPs, not to have any further trade mandates in the assembly of the state union, but to have the situation set up here so established and that only those who have applied for one MP can have his mandate, and not that someone later has that mandate if there is a re-transposition in this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26186	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, the word is Cedomir Jovanovic, the MP and legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26187	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the misunderstandings present in the works of critics of this bill, I think this member is clear and it is clear why it is impossible to choose the candidate and his deputy at the same time. I remind you, for example, from 1994, when a delegation of the Republic of Parliament was elected for the Greater Republic and when it was applied to the administration that rested on this kind of argument. At that time, parliamentary groups, and always in this parliament, have proposed two candidates, and then the assembly majority manipulated and elected which of the proposed candidates was more acceptable to them; or -- whose election would have caused damage to the party. So I remember very well the fate of the president of the SPI, who did not find himself in the delegation, although his party had the right to do so, but instead found another MP of the party, precisely because the Assembly has arbitration over which MP she prefers. There could be one candidate in the election. The circumstances in which the mandate ends are defined; when the mandate can be changed and in what way; who participates in this business. And there were always parliamentary groups, never parties, as legislators and bearers of the work in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26188	Anybody else answer for a word? Please, the word is Tomislav Nikolic, the MP and deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26189	It's not exactly commendable when you can go out there and say that you remember what happened in the congregation back 10 or 12 years, but I remember, and so I would ask those who don't remember not taking the false out of this pay phone. The law on election of MPs to the Greater Republic in 1994 did not require that the parliamentary group propose twice as many candidates as it is elected. We have all proposed exactly how much to choose, but with the will of the majority of Serbia's parliament, through the will of the SPS and New Democracy, instead of 20 MPs, the delegation has been elected 16. Three Serbian radicals have not been elected, and me among them, and Vojislav Kostunica has not been elected as a candidate for the Democratic Party of Serbia. Vuk Draskovic was elected, Zoran Djindjic was elected, and they went to the Greater Republic, did not rebel that a democratic principle was violated that he who has the right to MPs in the Greater Republic should be elected to the Greater Republic. That didn't bother them. For almost a year and a half, the councils of the Greater Republic attended, and then the Socialists and New Democracy called new elections for four additional MPs in the Greater Republic. Serbia's delegation had only 16 MPs in the Greater Republic for almost two years, and they chose three MPs, one from New Democracy, and that's all true. If you are talking about an electoral principle by which a double number of candidates could be proposed, so that most of whom are elected -- that was 1998 -- that was later, and that law was brought down before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26190	You do not have the right to reply, MP Bojana Alexic, because there is no basis. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. The amendment guy wants a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26191	The Serbian Radicals aim to correct this bill through the amendments, as much as possible, and the correction is aimed at electing MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro parliament to be about the mood of the people or citizens in the December 2000 elections. That is why we Serbian radicals insist that the proposal for MPs in the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly can be submitted by applicants of the electoral list and that they propose as many candidates as MPs are elected from the electoral list, which is the essence of Amendment 9. But when we looked at how the committees defined themselves when it came to the opposition's amendments, or the SRS, we were not surprised that only three amendments were adopted by the board, and one amendment proposed by the government and two amendments proposed by the bill, Cedomir Jovanovic. All other amendments are either not legally possible or not accepted. We do not understand why you of the DOS coalition insist that this is exactly the rule of electing MPs. If you're telling us a story about a temporary alliance for two years with Montenegro, something that you want to present to the people, a passing, a transitional, a harmless one, then why are you gentlemen trying to make sure that within the parliamentary group, which will be elected in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, you have a majority, that out of 91 MPs elected from this assembly to the DOS, as you are now called - Reform, yesterday you were called - Reforms, and God asks what you are called today, belongs to exactly 46 or 47. So, what and who are you afraid of? Are you afraid of these Kostunicas? Why are you afraid? Well, they, too, under the pressure of Solana accepted the Charter and adopted the Law of Conduct. You're basically the same. You're confirming that basic law of chemistry that the same in the same diluent. What do you want to do -- take this as an opportunity for you to allegedly divide into power and opposition. Don't be afraid of anything, gentlemen. These may rise even when they are elected, but when Solana arrives, you will all be unique. Once you've kneeled, once you've bent your back, now watch as your spine is saved. You won't be able to save her from Solana. Why does this matter to you? Because you have information, and Labus has long begun to talk about what is the essence of the talks with Solana, there is something that is important at the federal level to adopt, so that as soon as possible, economically, politically and in every way possible, we can tear this community apart, so that we can make preparations. In agreement with Milo Djukanovic, you're doing it. There are no sides to the opposition in Montenegro. Then why do you want, by applying this force, to let Serbia know that you are honest, how correct you are, how right you are for justice, for the equal representation of all political options in this House, and in essence you are dealing with the same torments. While you're already calling and remembering some last time, gentlemen, you've been sitting with the Democratic Party here when Milorad Vucelic from this pay phone praised you for all your mouths about how you're a cooperative opposition, what it's like to work with you, and you apply the same methods as those who praised you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26192	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Zeljo Huric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26193	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, given the situation that we have in Serbia today and in view of this parliament, the Serbian government headed by Mr Zoran Djindjic and Serbia at all, may not even have room for this amendment, because I am more than sure that the parliamentary groups that have representatives of minority nations will also take care of what I asked for in this amendment. As a legalist, I like everything that happens to you to be written down, so officially, so I have therefore proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26194	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26195	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard what we all know, what the citizens of Serbia know, and we have heard it from the promoters of this law. Yes, the citizens of Serbia know well, calling for elections from previous years and the previous assembly's calls just prove the proposing's intention, i.e. the intention of the DoS, headed by Zoran Djindjic, to rule against the people's will, to rule illegally and illegally. It is just proof that this law and what Mr Jovanovic cited as an example earlier, that they want in the same way as those before, as Slobodan Milosevic in the past 10 years, to translate the dictatorial way of ruling into the present time. It's worked for the past year and a half, but it won't be long. It has also succeeded by buying many of the MPs; they have played the people's will expressed in the last elections, where citizens have pleaded on what and what authority they want. The Krenji DOS, or the majority here with 10% support of citizens, and some say that I am optimistic, they do not have 10%, but I will generously admit 10% of the votes, and they want 100% of the authorities and not any government; they want absolute dictatorial authority of individuals, headed by Zoran Djindjic and the Croatian DOS. In this amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia, on article 10, it is precisely seeking, as in previous amendments, that this illegal, illegal assembly, involving citizens and not only MPs, is not an insult to other citizens, because citizens are those who do not have mandates. The citizens of these people were deluded, i.e. they were in legal and real error and resigned, and then explained to them that they should not withdraw those resignations; they are practically citizens now, because this assembly, as well as the committee in charge, has found the end of the term of office. Through these people, there is a desire to declare parliamentary groups in the election process for the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, so illegal representatives. Through them, the minority government, to transfer stolen votes, stolen elections, purchased mandates to Serbia-Montenegro's community level. They want an illegal, tense majority in the Serbia-Montenegro Community Assembly. What will be asked of you, and I also ask the presidents of the committees, let's say Mr Pajtic, chairman of the Legislative Committee, when the Administrative Committee decides that some alleged MPs - I claim citizens who participate in the work of this assembly, under the Law on the Selection of MPs - will be left without a mandate and may be a whole parliamentary group. Who will replace those people, some of whom have already been elected to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. Who's going and what's going to happen? I said yesterday, and Mr Jovanovic tried to deny me in this, that on January 20th, the Democratic Party of Serbia submitted a bill on the election of MPs to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, and that after 15, 16 days, I believe it was not only Mr Cedomir Jovanovic's work, although he was signed as an exclusive legislator of the law... (President: Five minutes, MP). So, in article 10, it's necessary to leave out the words "Embassy Group". This article reads: "The proposal is submitted to the Republic Election Commission, which, within 24 hours of the time of receipt of the proposal, determines whether the proposal has been drawn up and submitted in accordance with the provisions of this law".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26196	The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, who proposes the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26197	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Cvetkovic, I will ask you to listen carefully after you did not do so yesterday, in order to spare Parliament and all those who, by some chance, follow us from future circulations. So either treat the law as one whole or go out and say that it is not important to propose the agenda, that it is not the point of the agenda, that this parliament is the place where political hatred must appear and demonstrate impotence at all times, because political hatred is actually an expression of inability to do anything concrete and change in this society. The election for 91 MPs does not call this parliament. Parliament regulates the legal basis on which a division of mandates will be organised, as elections are discussed. The election is called by the president of the SRJ, Mr Kostunica, and the election, if necessary, will always be called by the one responsible for this, and that is the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This is determined by the Constitutional Charter, as established by the Constitutional Law. It is known in what circumstances such a thing seems to be. It's not any legal problem or paradox, it's facts. If we put the facts aside, we can talk about everything. If we don't talk the way you want to talk, then we can say that you came from Leskovec, where you got seven out of 75 councilmen and the DOS got 15 and if it's a symbol of collapse, let it continue, but it's not true that this country has no chance of succeeding and that what we're trying to save in advance has failed because it's not just up to those two days trying to do that in this House. It depends on the parliamentary majority who will finish the job, as many others have done, despite the unexpected and unnecessary obstacles we face. The amendment to Article 10 is completely pointless. It changes nothing, and it has no other purpose than to be just another excuse to repeat stories, which in themselves do not have any perspective. Let's make a deal with each other to spare it, to commit ourselves to this law because the deadlines ahead are strict. By midnight, we have to finish this. I don't think any of the other sides in this assembly are happy about it, but it's our job and at least let's say that everyone did their job -- that the opposition argued something, that with other arguments, we opposed it, that in the end, it was voted on and that the political will of the majority had won because it was the essence of democracy. And leave to the courts to judge, to leave the public to choose and to spare once this House the kind of political sermons that do no benefit anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26198	The word has the People's MP Petar Cvetkovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26199	Why does Mr. Jovanovic complain so much about this replica? Mr. Jovanovic missed the topic, which is not strange, because he is not a legal expert, and he missed both time and place. It's not the time of the rally. Not in 1997, I would remind Mr Jovanovic, when he advocated protecting the electoral will of citizens, and now Mr Jovanovic is stealing that election will of citizens and trying to change that electoral will. When it comes to the amendment to Article 10, why is it required to delete? Mr. Jovanovic, you could also read the reasons for the amendment. I think I've made myself clear - Article 10 requires the erasure of the word "mbassy group". As I was saying, in one cycle of elections, in the election procedure of no law, in any country so far, the parliamentary group could not be initiator or any participant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26200	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26201	I'm not going to waste a lot of words on the amendment of my fellow MP, because he doesn't have his own sense of purpose, but I have a moral and party obligation to say a few words. Comrade Cvetkovic, please leave President Slobodan Milosevic alone. At the time of the dictatorship regime in Serbia, 16 different types of elections were held. President Milosevic was elected three times directly from Serbian citizens. It is better to respond to this assembly and to you that you have forgotten that by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your President, President Milosevic was kidnapped and taken to The Hague. Perhaps your president was then in a legal and factual error, such as the DOS is often in error. He was probably mistaken when he signed the Belgrade Agreement and this constitutional charter that abolished Yugoslavia. Stay away from Slobodan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26202	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26203	Mrs. Comic, a respected presidency, there is not a single assembly that respects itself in an elementary sense, which does not rest on parliamentary clubs. No parliament can function without a parliamentary club, so neither can this one. MP clubs are the bearers of political life and it is natural that the parliamentary club makes a party or coalition, if it comes from the electoral list. The parties cannot function as such in parliament, and therefore there are parliamentary clubs. MP clubs have certain rights, which are significantly different from the rights of parties with which we can count in other situations, but not in parliamentary life. That's how it's gonna be in the future, no matter who the opposition is. All the indirect elections were organised in this country by the MPs' clubs doing the job, because it is impossible for the party to appear as an actor in the business, as the party does not function as an organisation in parliamentary life within the assembly itself, but as a parliamentary group on behalf of or on behalf of the coalition. It's an axiom. As it is clear to me that you do not want to admit because you are suffering concrete political damage, you must understand that it is also perfectly clear to us that political interests cannot be ignored and bypassed. Our society doesn't have a system of values. In this unsettled society, many different interests have developed. These interests are articulated by the parties. These interests today allow party representatives to say to the assembly speaker that some party is non-existent, phantom, fictional, and that with the same party they pave the coalition 300km south and form power with that party. This was done by the SPS, the SNS, the DSS - let's not throw that kind of dust into each other's eyes, but rather say that the parliamentary majority is passing laws, and the constitutionality of these laws is cared for by the Assembly, the Legislative Committee, the Constitutional Court. It's the matrix of political life and everything else is false.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26204	Who's next to the word? You're looking for a word as deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group? The word is from MP Srdjan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26205	Mr Cedomir Jovanovic said very precise findings in the previous exhibition -- that MP clubs have legitimacy if they come from an electoral paper; secondly, very true, that the Democratic Party of Serbia has made a coalition with the Socialist People's Party and other parties in Leskovac. That coalition was built, as far as we know, after the election. The Socialist People's Party also attended those elections. That's why this coalition exists. In Leskovec, the Socialist People's Party is not a phatomic party, but is real, and in this House, do you conclude yourself?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26206	The word is by MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the National Socialists Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26207	What did Stevan Guduric say - heroes, boo! My dear gentlemen, it is true that the parliamentary groups are stemming from the MPs who were on the election lists. Not the people, voting on December 23rd 2000 for the Socialists, thought of Baki Andjelkovic and Zarko Obradovic, but in southern Banat thought of Zoran Nikolic, in Srem they were referring to Stevan Ž. Gudurić and Vlad Garčević, in Mačva na Dragan Tomic, Serbia, to Banet Ivkovic. We are legally elected here in this congregation. That you of the Democratic Party of Serbia have given the Constitutional Court of Serbia an objection to the constitutionality of Article 88. - Thank you, we used it to be here in the Assembly and to have our own parliamentary group. Moreover, the Serbian Supreme Court is still considering who has the legality of the Socialist Party of Serbia. The Supreme Court will not forget that Mr. Veljko Odalovic, as a false member of the Constitutional Commission, has never been elected at the previous congress, signed documents. However, the situation continues. Slobodan Milosevic, who was elected at this congress of self-production, has scheduled a new congress. I don't want to open that socialist story. The Socialist People's Party is a legal party in the Republika Srpska Assembly, and we also saw in Leskovac, Despotovac and 23 February, Mr. Milan Curuvija will win in Alibunar.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26208	I remind the National Assembly that we are under discussion in particular on Article 10, where the amendment was submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I ask the MPs to take their seats. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Right on line, MP Zarko Obradovic. I ask the Parliament to listen to the speaker who received the word as a replica. The basis for the replica is the mention in the presentation of the previous speaker. I pray that we all remind ourselves that we are obliged to respect this home and treat each other with respect. In my attempt to apply the Rules of Procedure and secure order in the O.R., I have no co-operation with any of the so-called parliamentary groups in this room, and I ask you to listen to the speaker. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26209	Dear fellow Members of the People, I volunteered for the replica because I was mentioned personally and I would like to say three things. I know this makes you happy, because the congregation majority did create this situation. If the law had been respected, this would not have happened. As for the SPS parliamentary group, it numbers 37 members and there are no choirs. As far as our election list is concerned, if you don't know, to know, our election list was in the election in 2000 made in alphabetical order, from A to S. How much of those 250 people worth, it's not realistic to determine, but we certainly know that Mr. Ivkovic was the president of the Municipality's approval on Vrakar for several years, where we haven't had any councilmen for years, and he's so popular. As for that story about the Constitutional Court, I would very much like to see that constitutional court or that judge who will ignore the fact that the 27 decisions for this false conflict have been falsified by the persons who applied for it. There's a lot of evidence here that's been made of quality. These are stories for small children, the point being that the SPS here is being stolen for five terms. Unfortunately, these mandates should be carried out and we understand that; it is clear to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26210	Before continuing the debate, pursuant to Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure, I pronounce the distance from the session of MP Ljubomir Mucic. This measure may be expressed to the MP without prior measures in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session in the building of the National Assembly. National MP Ljubomir Mucic, at the moment I tried to put order into holding a session of the National Assembly, acted entirely contrary to the provisions of this member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MP to leave the room by applying the Rules of Procedure. Before I decide to take a break, I owe notice to the MPs. We are currently under discussion on the amendment to Article 10. That's the 35th Amendment in a row, out of 73 submitted to this bill. I ask you to be in the O.R. at exactly 15.00 hours so that we can complete the session according to the deadlines on which we are bound by the Constitutional Charter. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum to work with and we can continue the discussion in detail. According to Article 84(2), I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will need to make a statement on the continuation of the work until the debate is over in detail. Currently, this proposal cannot be put to the vote, as the number of MPs in the hall is needed to vote 126. The reasons for the extension of work today are the deadlines that bind us, and in the Constitutional Charter are also in the accompanying law that this assembly adopted. A little more free interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, this vote will not be now, at the beginning of the afternoon, as well as the setting of voting days, but at the time when the Assembly declares that it is agreed to work until the end of this agenda. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) Will you use both the time you have at your disposal as a deputy group president?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26212	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the People's Parliament, who reminds us of the deadlines, should not mean anything to us, no one can set deadlines for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And if he had democracy, he shouldn't have thought of saying it from a pay phone. The deadlines are cared for by the one who proposes the law, who is in the interest of respecting the deadlines set. And if you cared about the deadlines, you would have brought the Constitutional Charter to June, as was the deadline for the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. If that basic act is not reached within the time limit, why do you have the right to force us to bring the lower acts within the time limits that you have prescribed, when the constitution itself is not brought within that time limit. We've all been listening here today, and we've seen the gods, so there may be such a warning to the MPs that we're not at least late tonight after 12:00, so that the deadline for adoption of this law doesn't pass by by chance. What's going to happen and what's the penalty? I would ask you, I thought I wasn't using both times, but I'm getting more and more convinced that when I go out for this pay phone, it's okay. Since there is no sanction for the adoption of this law, it can be adopted tomorrow and Monday, it doesn't matter at all. Today we have heard even the rebuke of law-makers to those who write amendments. He said, here, they say, dare to write meaningless amendments that no one will accept. Well, Mr. Jovanovic, when you propose law, expect someone to write amendments. Expect him to write all kinds of amendments. This concerned the amendment of another parliamentary group, and Mr Jovanovic could now say about our every amendment. Because we amendments have implemented our idea of electoral law. When the first amendment failed, indeed someone could say it was pointless to continue insisting on the amendments. There's no such thing as a I have a lot of rights to say that this is a senseless bill, undemocratic, unconstitutional, destroying the will of the voters shown in the elections. Well, I didn't say it was pointless. You dare to criticize those who wish to work in the congregation because they work in the congregation. It would be appropriate for you to have a congregation in which MPs of the opposition, as well as MPs of the majority, would sit and wait for them to go home. The amendment to article 10 is trying to correct something that is unclear in Article 10, to define it, to determine it. It's true, our way. It was time for you to realize that this article on the 10th is bad, so you can adapt it to your way of choosing MPs because in Article 10. The bill you're saying is that the proposal by the parliamentary group is delivered to RIK. Let's think about it a little bit as mature people. Can the proposal be delivered? Can the proposal run that shop and be delivered to someone on its own? Since the proposal itself can't be delivered, it should have been written here who delivers the proposal. The proposal is delivered, the song is sung, the novel is read. And who sings and who reads? The proposal is submitted. If there's anything more pointless than this sentence, the proposal is submitted. A proposal is submitted, but not - a proposal is submitted. That's why we wrote - the bearer of the election list. You could have said, "President of the Assembly," who -- the Administrative Board -- who's going to collect all the proposals and deliver them to RIK? Is he going to take them all together or he's going to take it as he wants, because then we have some deadlines. You have now laid down in the law that a parliamentary group, which has the right to MPs, if it fails to submit a proposal, loses the right to MPs. The Constitutional Charter requires proportionate representation. We'll get to that amendment as well. The Constitutional Charter does not give you the right to withdraw your mandates to a parliamentary group that has not submitted a proposal for MPs, because then you lose your relative representation. If the SPS parliamentary group fails to submit a proposal, it will share its mandates with the others who submitted the proposals. Whether it's a proportionate representation - it's not. The Constitutional Charter is not respected, there are no MPs until the parliamentary group submits a proposal, or until it leaves the Serbian Parliament, or in any other way loses the right to have its MPs in the state assembly. This right guarantees her the Constitutional Charter, she will use it or not, and not that her right is used by others who can't wait for it. Now, I'm trying to tell you what's meaningful, what's pointless, I'm trying to get you into this hard work, serious and responsible. As much as you're able to accept information, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26213	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zlatan Jovanovic and the MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 11th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the second day we've been talking here about the draft law on selecting MPs for the assembly of the Serbia-Montenegro community, which was submitted by the DOS parliamentary group. There are two clear things here: it is a clear intensity of the proposings, a desire to transfer to the future assembly of the Serbia-Montenegro community, an effective state from this assembly, which means that it legalises this illegal, anti-constitutional state in the Serbian Parliament; another is the desire of the opposition, and above all the SRS, to respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, which was expressed in the 2000 elections and to transfer to the Serb-Montenegro community a practical state right after these elections, following the establishment of this assembly. In fact, it has long since become clear to the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, as well as to the citizens of Serbia, that the DOS coalition, which won the two-thirds majority in the vote in 2000 in this assembly, long ago in Serbia, had fallen apart and that a group of parties were trying in every way possible to hold power in the assembly, and thus to retain power in Serbia. Some experiences seen in the preceding period are applied, which were neither legal nor legal at the time. Now they apply them to you for swearing that they're legalists, that they're Democrats. MPs are being stolen from those who went to the polls legally and won them, to whom the people have entrusted the parliamentary mandates. They are taken away in an anti-constitutional manner by individual lists, in order to maintain power in any way. For these two years, we have seen on several occasions how the parliamentary majority is provided, in order to provide the necessary votes to vote on individual decisions and individual laws here. We have seen, here in Serbia, for the first time, the vote from Thessaloniki means a remote route, as it is voted in another person's name, with foreign parliamentary cards, that the executive authority also represents a legislative one, that it also votes. The freshest example is from the first extraordinary session, when Minister Rodoljub Sabic voted in favour of the Constitutional Charter; although the minister is in the Serbian government, he is also an MP in this assembly, he also votes in favour of the assembly's decisions. These are all the reasons why the SRS wants to amend this proposed text with amendments, so that it comes within the framework of the law and the Constitution. And this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 11, is in the spirit of previous amendments, in order to elect MPs from the parliamentary groups who are legal and legitimate here. Legal groups were verified immediately after the assembly was established, stemmed from election lists participating in the December 2000 elections. Only that condition is legitimate, can be just and acceptable for this National Assembly. Everything else is against the law, against the law, and cannot be accepted. Article 11 of this proposal states: "When the proposal by the parliamentary group is not drawn up, or submitted in accordance with the provisions of this law, RIK will no later than 24 hours from the time of identification of the deficiencies, invite the applicant to remove these deficiencies within 48 hours." This is not a matter of time-limits, here are the controversial words - ambassador groups, because we cannot accept the fact that they cannot, in a magical way, voters who are currently existing in this assembly to submit proposals, but only groups arising from the election results in December 2000, meaning the last parliamentary elections. I would briefly refer to yesterday's presentation by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic, who explained this proposal on behalf of the promoter. He said we couldn't and we couldn't build a future on the past, but on the present and reality. Mr Jovanovic, the present, that is, our political reality is far different from what we accept otherwise, which is the result of the 2000 elections. If you have the courage to find out what reality is, the political present in Serbia, call extraordinary parliamentary elections, and you will find out what the people think of you, about the current regime, and what will be the assembly of this community, which you are also making in an anti-constitutional way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26215	Is there anyone on behalf of the group of Members of Parliament who is submitting to the amendment who wants a word? The word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26216	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give an answer to Mr Jovanovic earlier because I was not given a replica when Mr Jovanovic held a small rally from this pay phone in the afternoon session. Mr. Jovanovic, in vain crying, in vain strong words, in vain anger, in vain threats. In Leskovac, citizens also decided to remove DOS from local authorities, and this will be the case after the republic's early elections, which will take place in Serbia. Then in all of Serbia, the DSS will be out of power and then you will be able to re-mitting to protect the electoral will keep it where it belongs, which is on the streets, like I said in 1997, not in this assembly. Parliament groups are not, and this amendment is to Article 11 in that sense, the participants of the electoral process and you know it well. There's another situation here. Here is not the point, in the end line it should also be irrelevant who will be the applicant of the proposal. But in this way, through parliamentary groups, through phantom, fictitious, non-existent, through seized, stolen mandates, bought MPs, wants to exercise power in Serbia. That sweetness will last you very shortly. You are not aware that citizens will very quickly and adequately punish your work and your behaviour, incompetence, both local authorities, and you have lost in all local elections, everywhere, and incompetence of the republican government. Amendment to Article 11(1) We propose that the words "Employment Groups" be deleted. The amendment is in line with previous DSS amendments, according to which the parliamentary group cannot propose candidates for MPs to the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. The parliamentary group -- it is not, nor participates in the elections, it is a technical, organisational part, so to speak, which helps in the work of the assembly. That's right. Political parties go to the polls and citizens vote... political parties to their merits, or coalitions. The political parties have just given MPs to this parliament, according to a law still in force, although challenged by the Constitutional Court, but, gentlemen, you forget something - the Constitutional Court did not adopt a provisional order not to apply the provisions of the Law on the election of MPs. The provisions of the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, regardless of who and when they were adopted, are bound to be respected, because this is the law we have. If it didn't work out for you, you could, you had the opportunity to propose a new law, and you didn't do it. A law that is valid must be respected, until the Constitutional Court says that certain sects are nothing, i.e. unconstitutional, or until a new law changes something or puts them out of force. Invoking the Constitutional Court here is a replacement of thesis, because, as I said, the Constitutional Court did not give the i.e. No temporary measure - order that those provisions, whose constitutionality is being examined, are not respected or applied. Gentlemen, it won't help you to try to legalize stealing people's will or post-election theft by means of this very bad, extremely bad approach. Neither this assembly, nor the Serbian-Montenegro Community Assembly, will have full legality and legitimacy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26217	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Zarko Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26218	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I advertise the violation of Members 102 and 104. Rules of Procedure for the events that happened before the break. I think the president of the National Assembly, and in this case the chairman, Mrs. Komic, misapplyed the rules of the Rules of Procedure. That's right. She's too hard on our MP, colleague Ljubi Mucic. There were fellow MPs in this National Assembly who were close to him, so they could assess if anything had happened or what had happened. One of them is a colleague, the chairman of the Administrative Board, and the measure will be the subject of reviewing the Administrative Board, so I don't think it's good for the National Assembly to say such measures that way. In my opinion, it's easy. I think it was a classic provocation and that fellow Mucic was challenged without doing anything that would be a measure of distance, as it is very precise to state what the measure of distance is. I think this is how an incorrect, discriminatory relationship is being conducted with us. I remind you that our colleague Rajko Baralic has been struck, so, for the sake of peace in the house, both MPs are far away. I don't think this is good, because in this way, unfortunately, but it also reduces the number of MPs who need to give a final court on this bill at the time of the vote. Yes, it's a fact, and especially since this law takes away two mandates from us socialists again. [[Sagar.]] I think the president of the National Assembly, in this case, Mrs Comic, as chairman, misapplyed the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26219	According to the Rules of Procedure, I owe you an explanation for your injury. I remind the MP that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decisions representing the discretionary powers of the chairman cannot be considered to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which clearly states. You may also request a session of the Administrative Board. I can express my regret that the incident that occurred in the congregation at all. But from the post of chairman and trying to apply the Rules of Procedure, I was an obvious witness to the procedure of the MP, which required the application of Article 104(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Whether you want a session of the Administrative Board, regardless of discretionary powers are not a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26220	Please, it's good for the Management Board to meet and bring this to the final court. We are asking, as we will ask the Administrative Committee to mention MPs, phantom MPs, away from us, because these phantom MPs... Because the board of directors has the right to determine the seat of MPs in this room, because they provoke us all the time, and that is why this happened. After all, let DOS determine the place that belongs to them. If he's already given them mandates, he can tell them where to sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26221	I also find MP Zarko Obradovic agrees that there was an incident. I have no other measure in my Rules of Procedure than the one that's been said. Please, the word is by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26222	In order to address this situation and for future times, according to the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that the National Assembly vote or confirm what Mrs Comic has done, or establish that she has applied a measure that was not needed at this time. You know, it's about too much power being put into the hands of the President of the National Assembly when you changed the Rules of Procedure and when you decided that the President of the National Assembly could throw the MP out of the session of the National Assembly. Since we now have a quorum to decide, since the National Assembly has the right to decide on everything, and especially on the application of the Rules of Procedure and to interpret it authentically, here is the opportunity to vote on the extent spoken by Mrs Comic. If most of them are by measure, they shall apply to the end, and if most are not by measure, then the Messenger of the people shall return to the Hall. There's nothing to expect from the Administrative Board. If he wanted to sit down and work, they'd be sitting at the gallery as guests, they wouldn't be in the O.R. at all, and then there wouldn't be a fight. I propose by the Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly be made known by the vote whether Ms. Komic, she was entitled to the Rules of Procedure, but whether she should have excluded the MP from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26223	The MP would have to know better the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and know that there is no basis for the Rules of Procedure for such a proposal. I will quote Rule 96: "In breach of the Rules of Procedure are not considered decisions of the National Assembly and of the President of the National Assembly to be made on the basis of the discretionary powers provided for in this Rules of Procedure." Any vote would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not knowingly going to violate the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone else answering for an amendment to Article 11? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic together submitted together. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. The Justice Committee has not accepted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26224	The Honored Presidency, honourable fellow MPs, Mr Minister, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed an amendment to amend and read: "When the parliamentary group does not propose candidates for MPs, the number of MPs elected from the election lists and their coalitions that participated in the 2000 parliamentary elections is increasing. The Republic Election Commission shall determine by applying the system of the largest amount (Dont's system) how much the number of MPs elected from the order of the parliamentary groups who tabled the proposals and in accordance with Article 1(1). The decision on the number of MPs in Items 1 and 2 of this article is delivered by the Republic Election Commission to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." This amendment provides for an authority and procedure for determining the number of MPs in the event that parliamentary groups do not propose candidates for MPs. All this under the condition of respect and consistent application of Article 88. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, which is still in force today, is not an act of any kind, nor of the Supreme Court, nor of the Constitutional Court, nor of this House, put out of force. In that case, it makes complete sense to accept this amendment. I understand your attitude towards parliamentary mandates within the DOS, but it is absurd to keep in parliament a parliamentary group that formed a new party, which did not participate in the December 2000 elections. It's all there is and you're aware of it. Even analysts and legal practitioners confirm that this is illogical. It is incomprehensible that a newly formed party, which has not participated in the elections under that name, exists here, has a parliamentary club. It's a reality and it's a fact that you know well. Secondly, by rejecting this amendment, the Legislative Committee called for it to be allegedly out of line with the constitutional charter provisions, and we know very well that the Constitutional Charter of the Serbian-Montenegro State Community is a fruit of compromise under pressure from international community representatives, who eventually wanted to preserve Milo Djukanovic. Fearing a referendum and a statement by the citizens of Montenegro about giving up the separatist commitment of Milo Djukanovic, the international community wanted to protect him. That most of Montenegro's citizens are defined for a common life also show the recent repeat presidential elections in Montenegro, where candidate Milo Djukanovic and his party did not get most, but far less than needed. The charter not only needed to preserve Milo Djukanovic, but should have destroyed the foundations of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, contributed to its collapse, and thus paved the way for the protagonist initiative on an independent Kosovo. The opportunity, unfortunately, was taken by the Cypriot separatists today and accepted the initiative of 42 MPs in the Kosovo Assembly to bring a declaration of an independent Kosovo. The Constitutional Charter, therefore, is neither the right to establish the fundamental principles of the constitutionality of the state nor to contribute to the proper setting up of the way in which MPs are elected in the new state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26225	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. The promoter is not present. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26226	Since it is without purpose to convince you that the parliamentary group should not and should not propose candidates for MPs, so her proposal could not be rejected, I would warn you of the story that some constitutional court will rule on this law on electing MPs to the common assembly, as it is already called, and God knows how long it will be called. That Article 20 also mentions the legislator, arguing that he was respected until the end and that no amendments could be made, so he must remain the draft law in the text in which he was proposed. By what argument you will defend equal representation, if the parliamentary groups that submitted the bids have divided the mandates of the parliamentary groups that have not submitted the candidacys. Those who wrote the Constitutional Charter in such a short time had to think about it, that is, it is possible that they would not approve such a member of the bill, but then the one who proposed the law should think about it. You say that when a parliamentary group does not propose candidates for MPs, the Administrative Committee will determine, in proportion to the strength of the other parliamentary groups, how it will overwrite the right of a parliamentary group that has not submitted the proposal. Will equal representation be shown in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? This is where we come up with our story of mixing amongst the parliamentary groups. You now have a fictitious parliamentary group, one or two. They will not submit a proposal from their MPs. If they have the right to one MP, who will get that parliamentary seat in the Assembly - the DOS parliamentary group because it has more than double MPs in this assembly from the next parliamentary group. So, the next two MPs will belong to DOS before some, probably the DSS parliamentary group, has the right to one MP, and you would not have the right to be evenly represented. Equal representation is if the Democratic Party has 50 MPs, which means a fifth, there are 16 or 17 MPs in that parliament there and there must be no more. One more if there is, no even representation, and then the Constitutional Charter is compromised. This law threatens her in her primary member, in Article 20. You wrote everything else as an expression of good wishes. The only thing to be implemented is the division of property and the selection of MPs for the assembly. That's why he's a member of the 20th. The Constitutional Command is important. That's why the members of the 3rd and 5th Jackon are important. They determine who will decide in these two years what is to be decided in that congregation, and there is little to be decided on. If that's the case, you'd better respect that even representation. He who wants to proposes and proposes, knows how many MPs he has the right to do. Whoever doesn't want to propose will wait for him, because there's no other sanction. You cannot say that the mandate ends in the Serbian Parliament because their parliamentary group has not submitted a proposal to the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. There must be no sanctions for those who do not submit. It's their right. It's about delegate elections, indirect elections. Anyone who has the right to these MPs can use it today, tomorrow, in two months, in five months. These are not direct elections where the number of elected MPs must be chosen. These are indirect elections where everyone has the right to a number of MPs. That right doesn't deny him. He cannot be denied if he is one or two days late with a proposal for MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26227	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The same Article of the 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. In the name of the proposed word is National MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26228	Amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia to Article 12 Paragraph 1 of the bill is amended and reads: "If the political party does not propose candidates for the MP or its proposal is rejected, the number of MPs elected from the order of political parties who have tabled proposals made in accordance with this law is increased." In point 2, "the ambassador group has" is replaced by the words "the political party had", and after the words "the assembly", the words "on the day of its constitution" are added, while the words "mbassies" are replaced by the words "political parties". I'd like to remind you of one fact. For elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, it is possible, both theoretically and practically, to establish phantom, fictitious and new parliamentary groups. They may also disappear immediately the next day after the election. What about the MPs who gave the MPs? Do they stop their mandate in the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly? What happens if the parliamentary group consists of, say, two, and can have more political parties and one party has more members than the other? In any case, one party within the parliamentary group will outvote the other party and thus be injured by the principle of equal representation of political parties in the Serbian-Montenegro Community Assembly. I'll return to the beginning of the bill. In Article 3. The bill says "The mandate distributions in the Assembly are attended by political strands, political coalitions and other organisations represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". This is a good proposal and it's in accordance with the law. But this member is in direct contrast with Article 5, where famous fictitious parliamentary groups are introduced, which serve only to illegally hold power and cover election theft or post-election theft. Gentlemen, in these parliamentary groups you are calling upon, and according to this bill, they make definitive and final proposals in the assembly of the Serbian-Montenegro Community, there are people, and we heard that, who were in error, legal and real error, as is said on the Administrative Committee, so they resigned, in full accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Law, and did not withdraw those resignations. So the resignations are still valid. Parliament and the committee of directors have determined the end of the term of office, and these MPs are still in this parliament. The resignations are important. Among these MPs in legal and real error, as is said, as well as the explanation of the congregation's majority, are also very prominent, prominent lawyers, university professors, members of the government, members of this parliament, including Mr Dragor Hiber. Do you know, gentlemen, that Mr. Dragore Hiber doctored precisely on the subject of delusion. How could you lead him into a legal and actual or factual delusion? What have you just done to the citizens of Serbia? What will you do to the citizens of Serbia if you are not taken out of power in early elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26229	People's MP, I must say that you are mistaken about how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is applied. I really ask you to stop the voluntary violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and step out of the legal error of reading the Rules of Procedure and at least once contact the National Assembly within five minutes. Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? The word has the chairman of the Legislative Committee, MP Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26230	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was on several occasions a dilemma and a calling, unfortunately, I was not present to defend the integrity of the Legislative Committee, but also on the occasion of this amendment we can very clearly explain where the misunderstanding occurred and why the whole series of amendments to this bill are missing. If we take this amendment where it is proposed to replace the "Embassy Group" in Section 2, with the words "the political party had" and we pass it on to the text proposal, we will get the following text: "The Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will determine, in proportion to the number of MPs, which the political party had in the Assembly," etc. So, illiterate. This is not the responsibility of the Legislative Committee and it is not important at this time. It is legitimate to discuss whether a political party or a parliamentary group should delegate MPs to the federal parliament. Since 1992, we've had continuity. When we talk about phantom groups or phantom parliamentary clubs, under the Law on the election of MPs to the Greater Republic in 1992, parliamentary groups delegated MPs to the Greater Republic of the Federal Parliament. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not at all the subject of what is proposed by this amendment to define and ask the question of the moment when the parliamentary structure of this Parliament is being re-painted, or when it reflects the parliamentary structure of the Federal Parliament. The Constitutional Charter clearly states that during the first two years following the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, MPs are elected directly, proportionately, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Montenegro. This means that the actual state of affairs is reflected in the parliament of the communities of the states. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Charter is a legal act that must be respected in this bill and is the basis for the adoption of this law. This debate, in these two days, is a debate about the Constitutional Charter. We adopted the Constitutional Charter. We liked it. We didn't like it. As many as 70% of the DSS parliamentary group's amendments are looking back at a moment completely legally overcome. The Constitutional Charter was adopted and we cannot discuss it in that sense. I offer the gentlemen who have proposed these amendments not to criticise the work of the Legislative Committee and what the Legislative Committee has done at its session, he has defined himself as the dominant majority of the votes, but to turn to the Legislative Committee when they make those amendments, and we will provide legal assistance in this regard not to have such misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26231	The word is made by the president of the DSS parliamentary group, MP Dejan Mihajlov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26232	I'm afraid some people here need some other kind of help, not legal, but this phone booth isn't the place to do it. It is good that we have now heard from the mouth of the president of the Legislative Committee that they were served as the basis for this law by the good flow of the law of a notorious, undemocratic, and what is still called the SPS regime, where they were also MPs' clubs. It is a reliant on a non-democracy regime when a non-democratic law is to be passed, and calling on democratic fluids when we want to introduce ourselves to voters. So, finally, what we are saying here is that the law that served to disable the 1993-1994 DSS to have its member of the Greater Republic, when Mr Kostunica, along with the MPs of some opposition parties, did not get enough votes to pass now the basis for writing this law. I don't think any other word about this law is necessary. That's all he says to himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26233	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. Amendment applicants are not present. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26234	Ladies and gentlemen, at first I must say that the defence of this amendment should have been done by Ljubomir Mucic, who, by his own free will or by misreading the chairman's distance from the parliament's session without any reason. Looks like whoever takes off his jacket, whether it's hot or not, can be away from the session. The substance of this amendment is contained in one technical proposal. Namely, when already as a congregational majority, provided in a very suspicious manner, you did not want to accept the essential proposals for amending this law regarding previous members, particularly for Article 3 and Article 5, we are looking for an amendment in Article 13, where elections are required to be conducted on the basis of a summary list of candidates drawn up on the basis of a proposal from parliamentary groups. Our position, as you could hear, along with other opposition parliamentary groups in this House, is that MP groups cannot be proposing election lists and candidates for federal MPs. However, when you have already called your own secure majority, you have come to this conclusion that you will give this authority to MP groups, when D-day comes to vote (or as we all MPs know that we call each other that day, but not to earn a warning I will not say what we call it) you as a parliamentary majority do not know what you are voting on. This is a concrete proposal whose essence is that the Assembly List, consisting of the Republic Election Commission, determines the order of MPs in the alphabetical order; therefore, not in the manner provided for in Article 13(2) and Article 3. A bill of this law. I bet, Mr. Dragisa, that you have no idea what you're voting on, because if you did, and in this way I'm checking on you, you would come to the point of thinking that you might support this amendment and say - perhaps this way of making up a summary list of candidates for MPs will be better than proposed in Articles 2 and 3. Madam President, did you hear the comment sent by the MEP in the fifth row?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26235	National MP Dragana Todorovic, when you address the chairman, you are obliged to listen, because only the speaker can interrupt the speaker and point to a part of the information he lacks during his speech. I also ask the MPs to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not to have a dialogue from the Parliament bench and from the pay phone and to allow each other a dialogue with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26236	I hope this time will be compensated. As you might have noticed, I was trying to make the essence of our amendment, but from a few unserious MPs, there was something else. Namely, the SPS parliamentary group, whose president is Slobodan Milosevic, has submitted such an amendment since the parliamentary majority in this parliament is not paying attention to technical details and will certainly not be able to recognise the essence of this amendment. We have tabled a technical proposal that does not change the essence set out in Articles 3 and 5, which is that MP groups are candidates for federal MPs, which is nowhere in the world, but obviously there is a DOS in Serbia, and all in order to survive and the government itself, in principle: it is me. So, once again, this is one practical proposal to check your safety. I am quite sure that you will not go through with this check, as I have already said, which in the day of voting does not have enough concentration in any MPs, nor in the heads of parliament, or even in those who are authorized as representatives under the laws to follow all amendments or when voted in one series. It's already on the soul of the one who suggested who adopted such a vicious Rules of Procedure. I would like to say that this amendment is indeed of a technical nature, and that we cannot change the essence of the proposed solution. If you want this bill to be good and adopted by the parliamentary majority, we suggest on time and well-meaningly that you withdraw this draft of the law or adopt all amendments, in a way that would provide for the improvement of this proposal in a sense that would be acceptable to all party representatives and to the entire Serbian people. So we would come up with a common solution that would represent... (President: 5 minutes 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... to provide a stable basis in the future for the potential development of a stable state. According to those who participated in the creation of such a state, and by the order of Javier Solana, there seems to be none of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26237	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. On behalf of the applicants, the amendment has a People's MP, Bojana Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26238	This is once again an amendment relating to the difference between the proposals and the DSS. Once again in the position of the 1st member of the "Embassy Group" is replaced by the words "political Party", I will repeat it once again because of those of our television viewers who worked early in the afternoon and who were unable to track our TV transmission, because we believe that MP groups cannot figure out as a factor in political life. They don't go to the election. They don't win votes. MP groups are being held in parliament after elections of one or more parties, so that the parliament can work better and more efficiently. The composition of the parliamentary groups is relative. There has been a lot of party regrouping, as we in this House have had the opportunity to watch over the past two years. There's been a lot going on here, and the citizens of this country know it well. They know well which parties they voted for, and who is currently in power. They know well that the minority is currently ruling over the majority rather than calling for extraordinary parliamentary elections at all levels and that they were also called before the Constitutional Charter was adopted. If MPs were elected directly, as the Constitutional Charter states, because it states that the electoral principle must be based on democratic principles that apply in the European Community and the whole world, in all normal, civilised and democratic countries, we would not be in this situation today. The people would express their free will. In power today, we would have those of whom the people truly trust. This is how we all witness the rule of the minority, which is called only one word everywhere, and that's dictatorship. This law and the proposal, as it constantly passes the words - the parliamentary group and the parliamentary groups, is an instrument for the implementation of that dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26239	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, National MP Miroljub Veljkovic submitted. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Justice and Administration Committee has not accepted the amendment. Here's a word from MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26240	The chairman of the Legislative Committee, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, has just informed us that we have, in fact, the continuity of the creation and formation of phantom parliamentary groups since 1992. I don't get it, Mr. Pittice. What did you mean by that? We have to keep that continuity at all costs, so we have to keep it in the future, or that you're the guardians of that tradition; is that right? If that's the case, I congratulate you. If under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, if by some human justice and God's laws, we will fill the Serbian-Montenegro Community Assembly in proportion to the strength of the election lists from the last elections. We all know that the trust of the people in the last, December elections in 2000, received four electoral lists: DOS - Vojislav Kostunica; this is the gentleman whom the people now call from the mercy of Jovan without the country; then the SPS, the SRS and the SS. So that's how it should be, if we intend to respect the election will of the people. Mr. Jovanovic here can verbally gymnastics as much as he wants and explain to us in this hall and the people who watch us as it is by law. It is clear to all of you here and all of us in the O.R., and it is especially clear to the people, that it is not according to the Law on the selection of Members of the People. We have been witnesses here for two years, one witness and one participant, one of a kind of political and congregation engineering, with the ultimate goal of changing the election will of the people, with the ultimate goal of preserving the naked power. The chief designer of this engineering is the Serbian government, or Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and the contractors are Mr Jovanovic and Mr Vesic. When it is in the interest of the Government, the Law on the Selection of MPs is strictly applied. Let's remember Perisic's MPs. They were expelled from the party, and normally, the Law on the Selection of People's MPs was applied, just by being expelled from the party, they immediately ceased the status of MPs. It was okay and so it should be. But what our people say in a joke can happen but it doesn't necessarily mean. When it is in the government's interest we have another situation, that political parties throw their members out of the party, and that sovereignty is now being transferred to MPs, not to a political party whose list he was on. Then they form some phantom political groups here, which should serve as logistics to the government of the Republic of Serbia in the vote of law, budgets etc. So we have this group around this cowardly Banet Ivkovic, and an even more drastic example, we have a group around this already legendary one, the one from Kraljev, Mark Petrovic, that prominent fighter for democratic principles. That's how it works. Sometimes the law is applied, and sometimes the interests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are applied. We made practically a real papaziania in the congregation. Since the secretary of the assembly is sitting there, I would ask him two questions: how many people in Serbia today have parliamentary legitimacy; does 250, 280, 300, 350? How many MPs have you betrayed so far; how many people own that ID? That ID automatically means immunity and people exercise some rights by that. I'd like to ask him to inform us about the situation. And what is happening now - this illegal situation in the Republic of Slovenia now we want to transfer to the Serbia-Montenegro community assembly. It is clear why this thin or illegal ruling majority in this congregation wants to do so. However, I would warn you that the foundation of every state's functioning is respect for the law. Once you break the law, make a precedent, it will normally go on as a wave. I'd like to appeal to you to listen very carefully to what we've been putting out here for two days and to listen to us. In fact, you should listen to this deafening silence in Serbia. The Serbian has bent to the ground, bent down and shut up, and you are probably mistaken that everything is fine. However, you all know well that behind the most difficult, the biggest fatigues fly, and what kind of heat storm comes. Do I need to remind you that May 29th is very close.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26241	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There is a word from MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26242	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Article 13, there are at least two shortcomings I would like to point out, and they could be repaired by a therapeutic process or an amendment that we would even accept, even if it comes to the sky. Namely, anyone who reads the position of the first member of the 13th will not know what this is about, because it is pointless, as one of the MPs in the Serbian Parliament would say, and he says, "The elections are being held on the basis of a summary list of candidates who have submitted parliamentary groups." If anyone knows what this is about and what this norm looks like; what is it going to be? I don't think anyone knows. But there's a flaw that's related to RIK's work, about putting together a pool of electoral lists, because it's her job. In what time will RIK make up a summary list of candidates? What is the deadline under this law, and this is the law on selecting MPs, which is the deadline for RIK to form a summary list of candidates? To whom does he deliver the summary list of candidates? Article 14 says it delivers to the MPs, but the MPs are not proposing. If we hold elections, the summary list is submitted to the proposings, not to the MPs, because the MPs are candidates for MPs. In the election for MPs, candidates from the electoral lists and candidates from the pool election list do not get a summary election list. It is announced and must be highlighted in the polling post, which means that we miss the election call, the date in which elections will be held, the polling place (it is probably the Hall of the National Assembly and in it a prominent summary list of candidates) for the election of MPs to the assembly of these two states; and of course, folk joy, and to be thrown out by some rifle, elections, to fire a rifle, what is wrong, and to propagate elections on state television. These are not elections for the President of the Republic, where there is no strong candidate. These are elections for the assembly, where the government has created many candidates. These elections will succeed, these are not those choices where you cannot participate, where the people choose. These are choices where you choose, and that's why they can only succeed, because you first put the dice together, that you have enough MPs when it comes to choosing. You see how the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing today - the chairman says: we will decide on an extension when there are enough MPs in the hall. What kind of National Assembly doesn't know when it's going to make a decision, but it's waiting for MPs to be redeemed in the O.R., and then it's going to vote. And when I propose, according to the Rules of Procedure, that that time Parliament vote for something, that the chairman put my proposal to the vote that the Assembly vote on something, it is not put as a proposal, because the chairman sees that my proposal will succeed. The assembly leads so that it always succeeds its proposal and elections so that it always succeeds in the elections. Is that called democracy? Now, find me a Western democracy to accept this as the principles it wants to apply to itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26243	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. Do the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment. There is a word from MP Bojana Aleksic, on behalf of the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26244	This member is hiding some misunderstandings and I'd like to ask the promoter, when I'm done with my explanation, to explain it to me. Article 15 states: "For MPs in the Assembly, candidates from the summary list were elected, provided that the summary list of candidates received most of the votes of the MPs, at a session attended by most of the total number of MPs." The DSS amendment is very simple: "All candidates from the collection list have been elected for MPs in the Assembly"; in order not to accidentally repeat the situation, which we had already heard about, from several years ago, when Mr Kostunica and a number of SRS MPs were not elected to the Greater Republic, although they were voted from the summary list. If a concept is made to delegate MPs from one congregation to another congregation, it is done by means of a summary list. The summary list means only one way to vote, which is to vote for or against the list in general. From this attitude, it could be concluded that we will now choose 91 MPs, one by one, and, say, we will vote for Peru, and we will not vote for Zika, so we will vote for Mika. It simply cannot and is not in the spirit of the bill's proposal, it is not in the spirit of the Constitutional Charter, the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, and in general all that is agreed upon. Well, if there is a good intention, and I believe that there is, there is no reason why the proposer would not accept this amendment, which would only remove any doubt and ambiguity, with good faith, that this is exactly how the summary list would be voted. The second thing we suggested is that, instead of using the electronic system, you vote with a roll call. Of course, we do not doubt that all MPs in this assembly, that is, all political parties who propose candidates for MPs in the joint state assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, if anything else because of these people, will vote for them. However, the importance of this vote is extremely high. Yet it is one historic moment, which remains recorded. We are witnessing that very often in this assembly, because of the application of the electronic system, there are unwanted situations when the vote comes, that there is a question of expression, so we simply want to introduce a little seriousness at that moment of voting itself and, at the very end of the line, to remain in some stenogram recorded who voted, and that they have the opportunity to see our viewers as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26245	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 15 by MP Zlata Djeric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here's a word for the MP Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26246	Gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, I think that this amendment is very necessary and clearly accepted because the words "using an electronic voting system" are deleted. So we in Articles 113 and 114. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have very clearly explained what public voting means and can be carried out in three ways - using the electronic system, raising hands or individual statements. In order to avoid suspicion, which has often appeared in the use of the electronic voting system, it is only necessary to leave the possibility of a public vote, and we will agree, since it is a member who will only be used once, how that will be done at that time. And to be transparent in front of our voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26247	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here's a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26248	There's only one explanation that's needed here. That's exactly what our amendment does. So, to determine exactly and see whether the summary list applies to all candidates, all 91, and whether all candidates have passed if the summary list gets most votes; or whether the summary lists refer to each parliamentary group, so that the list of some parliamentary groups may not get a majority. There is a need here to clarify this detail, i.e. only in one word - all MPs on the collection list have received or have been selected if the summary list is given an absolute majority. Our amendment here meant only to clarify that fact, that we might not be in a situation like 1994, that it was a summary list, but that 16 candidates were elected, and four were not. So, just one word of "all" determines to prevent abuse, not to say theft and the rest, which may come unless there's a good will to do the job fairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26249	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform and a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26250	Mrs. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, although the amendment of New Serbia MPs treats the very procedure of the public vote, I will answer this question that actually stems from the previous amendment. So in Article 13, precisely because of the experiences that were in the past, it was defined to form a summary list. It has been said who has the right to propose a list and how the candidates of the parliamentary clubs are being normed. It is impossible to select a piece of the collection list and the other part is not selected when voting uniquely for the entire collection list. It reads very clearly in Articles 13, 14 and 15, and I would very much like to accept that amendment if that is not the case, and, if that is the only problem, when we come to the vote, I will accept that amendment, although it is clear that the elections are being conducted on the basis of a summary list made up of RIK, that the summary list is made up of parliamentary groups, and the order is determined according to the number of MPs who supported the proposal from the MPs. So whether DOS - Reform, SPS or DSS will be first depends on the number of MPs who support these nominations, and subsequent members say it is delivered to MPs, that within 24 hours it must be put to the attention and that candidates are then selected on the summary list if a summary list is selected. I'm prepared to remove this one vagueness very gladly, we'd be happy to accept it, but it wasn't the intention of it, but it was just a collection list being formed to avoid the possibility of any selective vote. One vote for a single list to be established by the RIK on the basis of a proposal from the Administrative Committee, which will apply the standards laid down by this law, nothing more. I would also like to make another correction -- as far as replacing MPs are concerned, we have been trying to build an institution of MPs with status that is independent. If under the law defined by the circumstances an MP may be considered an ambassador who has lost his mandate, it is under the authority of the President of the Council to call the elections even behind the post. This must not depend on the congregation's assessment. Just as Parliament's president calls elections for even one parliamentary seat in Serbia, so the president of the Council of Ministers must give out elections for that place, and then the Administrative Committee, and RIK and parliament will determine according to Dont's system to which the place belongs and how the election will be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26251	Right on line, MP Bojana Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26252	This is exactly what I was afraid of when it came to replacements. What does Dontt's system and RIK have to do with the exchange of MPs? If, for example, don't give God, the MP dies or resigns by his will, it doesn't matter at all, we won't enter the reasons for the end of the mandate, which is why it is necessary that there should be replacements at the beginning; and then it is known: let's say the MP group x ipilon, or the political party x ipslon changes the MPs for that and that reason; then it is known automatically - his first replacement is Pera Peric and goes Pera Peric. RIK in that case only verifies. There's no need for this whole mess to be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26253	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26254	Obviously, we did not understand each other, but the mention of Dont's method was not related to the very procedure of the subsequent election, but all quotas would be defined on the basis of Dont's method and thus the frameworks of each of the parliamentary groups were defined in advance. What can happen? I don't speak for a single MP. We can tomorrow get a decision from the Constitutional Court of Serbia that will define the future of more than one MP. Maybe those people won't have a replacement at all. Then who's going to decide? So, in order for us not to decide today, we can't choose an MP and his deputy candidate in the election, the candidates are elected and they get trust, they're elected MPs, and all subsequent amendments are set out in this law. Very clear. It controls them, in the same way that it controls the first choice, the Administrative Board and RIK. Why RIK? RIK must check whether the candidate, who stands out for the new MP, is on the party's electoral list. The MP club that suggests it, is it even an MP? It's a job for RIK. And the Management Board should determine who has the mandate. If this is only one MP from a single parliamentary group, the Administrative Committee will say - since the law found that the DSS parliamentary group has 17 MPs, one MP has withdrawn, elections for the one MP under the DSS quota have been called, as it has been laid down by law. But to choose deputies -- we can't do it because of a lot of problems, and one is the one I mentioned. What if the deputies can't make that commitment? So this is the most efficient and clear way -- the president has to call the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26255	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Committee on Justice has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The Committee on Justice has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Here, the word is Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26256	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 which adds a new position 2 which should read: "The minutes are signed by the president of the National Assembly. "Why have I submitted this amendment? For the simple reason that the record is an official act and it must be known who is responsible for its credibility. This bill, as I understand it, was to be used to reflect the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the Republic of Parliament to the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. However, by this caucus proposal, you have delivered to us that this electoral will of citizens, which should be sacred to all, and especially to us MPs, because thanks to this very electoral will we have come to this Parliament, violates and perceiving the will of certain powers you are looking to form a new parliament. Why is it necessary to accept this amendment that I have proposed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party? Because these elections are being held right here in this building chaired by the president and she is the only one responsible for all the actions that take place around the election. She is responsible for the regularity of the election, which will most likely take place in a few days. In this building there will be a polling station, a constituency board, voters and observers, those with the right to vote, those without the right to vote, will be valid and invalid ballots, will be all that characterizes the elections. The most important thing is that there's a record that someone has to sign so they can criticise, that there's some responsibility. It has been said here that this law has been proposed for one reason, as you have been calling for some continuity in the election of MPs since 1992 for the Greater Republic. Was that a good solution? It was not good and the proof of this is that neither Yugoslavia nor the Greater Republic, so I see no reason why you are proposing this idea and stick to that idea, so that there is once again an indirect election of MPs in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. What is the character of this House? The fact that we don't know how many MPs we have, that we don't know how many parliamentary groups we have, and that's what DOS has managed to do for these two and a half years, means to create one chaos in parliamentaryism. On the other hand, you managed to create some phantom coalition "Return", which acts in Kosovo and Metohija as a decor for the world, to ask themselves as Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. What is worst is that you continue your practice and want this experience from the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly to be transferred to the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. However, this procedure of yours will come upon the condemnation of the citizens, and I don't think this state union will live to see these two years as much as you planned. In the end, I would like to read to you the song of our representative Bozidar Vukurovic. "What you shout and noise, nothing will be worth to you, an apostle who likes Cedi; what a constitution, what a law, and what a copper, an apostle will be more powerful; don't be moved, everyone will be lighted, when the MPs are left and Zivko and Bane; Ivkovic will be very angry and angry, if he is not chosen and Gudurić Stevan; don't be grumbled, everyone will be sung, when they sing to Marjane, Marjane together; as far as Ilic Velje is concerned, his wish is a ray, that the Assembly will choose Petrovic Mark; believe me, Vela would feel like a young man, that they will be sent to him by Kovačević and Tadić; from the ranks of DSS he is seriously whispered, that he will first propose to the Golubović Duško; they will be so eloquez, the noble and the fine, so fine, they are right for the state of the people called Jukadjidjan; but you can take care to take care for you twenty.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26257	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26258	This amendment is partly technical, but more binding. I know you're bored and yawning when other people work, but hold on a little longer. The president will let you go home as soon as you do the job you're here for and you're hired. In fact, Article 16 provides for the minutes to be held on the vote conducted in the National Assembly and for the Republic Election Commission, on the basis of the minutes, to form a report to the National Assembly. Whether the minutes, before sending to the Republic Election Commission, are adopted in the Serbian Parliament, as well as any minutes from the National Assembly session. Does that record, as we have suggested, at least be signed by the President of the National Assembly and why the President of the National Assembly. Not because I value it too much, but because it's an act that someone needs to answer for. What if three or four minutes appear before the Republic Election Commission? One sent with the head of the Assembly, and one with the head of the SRS parliamentary group. What will the Republic Election Commission say? It's worth what the Assembly has approved. Where did we legally prescribe that? We deliberately suggest that the president of the National Assembly sign it because it is known for the acts it signs. So you could read in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" the decision to call elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, signed by Natasa Micic, which reads - I have decided not to call elections for the president of Serbia. The constitution and the law do not say that it makes a decision on non-registration, but a decision on the calling, and that only means a decision on...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26259	Please return to the topic, since it is not your responsibility, it is not your job and it is not the subject of the agenda. Go back to the subject, to article 16.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26260	Mrs. Micic, it's easy for you to do whatever you want, you were on the DOS election list in 163, so much appreciated, and we got you here to knock behind our backs. That someone is the first on the list, the second on the list, the third on the list, and we accept it, but in 163 on the list to run the National Assembly, and it also decides when someone else will have a chance to run for president of Serbia, because that doesn't come to your mind. You don't have that option, you don't have that electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26261	The second time I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26262	You weren't here when the eyes were coming out. To God's Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia today hated something beyond measure, so no one reminds them, not a word to them. Wait till I'm out for the pay phone to show you. Okay, notice, exclusion, like it's something new to me. You've had continuity since 1992. That means I'll be beaten again, that I'll be in prison as a MP. You keep that continuity, but I warn you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, write everything in the law that needs to be done, because we have such a president of the Assembly who's been interpreting what we wanted with a certain law, so when we tell him, within 60 days you're calling elections, and you have 15 to 60 days to hold out, she says - I'm making a decision not to call the election. That's what you'll do with this record. Open your four eyes. When we get a list from the president of the National Assembly, it lists citizens who are not Members at all. And it hasn't been since the pigtail's been stuck.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26263	Just a little correction - I wasn't on the list in 163 but 169. Of the 176 MPs on the DOS list, 169 was because each 18th MP belonged to one party. My party has nine MPs, and the championship has been given to lawmakers from Belgrade, from Novi Sad, by the size of the cities, and I am from Užica. Secondly, I think all MPs have the same right, both first and 250. Third, the first on the list was Zoran Djindjic and should have been the speaker of the assembly. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs: Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP George Mamula, representative of the applicants for the amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a law on selecting MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26264	And this bill, and in particular Article 18, shows the crisis of society, the crisis of morality, the crisis of institutions. This bill also mentions the key term "Embassy Group" in this article. The parliamentary group is a concept that does not know the Law on political parties at all. He only knows parties that are registered and only they have legal subjectivity. Members' groups have no legal subjectivity within the meaning of the law. I'm telling you this because ten months ago there were some disputes between some parties in this House, so the Supreme Court ruled under the Party Law. The parliamentary group is a concept, as many speakers have said, which appears in key members of the law, so as not to win the majority in the Serbian-Montenegro parliament. Otherwise, the composer of this proposal seemed tired and forgot the right to appeal and did not regulate the area, but called for the Law, but quite inconclusive. Namely, the bill left out at least three things. First, to state within what time can the appeal be made to the Supreme Court of Serbia? Secondly, to prescribe whether and to whom an appeal can be made for the unlawful withdrawal of parliamentary mandates, which is a question on which there is a gap in the legal order after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter. Thirdly, it has been omitted to file an appeal against decisions taken by the Administrative Board in the application of the Law, so I wonder if anyone has the right to appeal against the decision of the Administrative Board? It's a legal void that needs to be studied at law schools how the law shouldn't look. The bill regulates the procedure in a way that is vague and insufficient on the one hand, and on the other. A provision was used to read: "Serbia's Supreme Court decides to appeal to the proper application of the provisions of the laws governing the procedure in administrative disputes." This is Article 18(2). The draft law, but it is prescribed from the same context, is to tear the position of Article 4, Article 97. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. The same shall apply to Article 18(3). It's a bill of law. That is why we have proposed this amendment before you and recommend it to your attention. A amendment like this should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26265	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants are not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday's and today's National Assembly Day, dedicated to the draft law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament, has been marked by stronger debates between the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia, so at one point I thought that Mr Ceda Jovanovic and the head of the DSS parliamentary group would be a little harder to account for. The Serbian Radical Party went to the polls on its own and won its seats. We will defend these mandates and not give them to anyone. But I don't understand the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, they complain and say the mandates must belong to parliamentary groups, or parties. Why didn't you go to the election alone? "He who plantes pumpkins with the devil, his head is broken." Ladies and gentlemen, in an amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party, which I am explaining, we are asking that in article 18, "the ambassador group" be replaced by the words "the applicant of the electoral list". In Article 8, we explained why we were looking for such a change. We think that the party that has its mandates also has the right to propose its own candidates as the applicant of the electoral list. What does that mean, a group of MPs? Mr Jovanovic, you can from your one parliamentary group, which you are currently leading, set aside several other parliamentary groups. I thought Zivko couldn't be an MP in a new parliamentary group, so he did. Therefore, when the day comes for the vote, we invite you in advance to accept these amendments, to better regulate this law, and to know precisely which parliamentary group, or which voter of the election list belongs to which amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26267	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26268	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this article 18 has a very badly written first position. Because of this crowd, running without taking my word, I didn't bring it, but about the first part of the sentence is in the plural, and the second part is in the one, so it's said, when the MP or the MP group have objections and they're not satisfied with the election process, they can file a complaint and so on. I would ask you to read it, describe it, because it doesn't look like Serbian legislation, as if we Serbs didn't write this bill, as if it were translated from Norwegian, because it seems to me that's how construction works in Norwegian. We should point out once again the actions involved in the violation of the electoral procedure. They must be clearly defined, armed. You have to write exactly what case he's complaining about and who, within what time does the decision be made by appeal, when the decision is final? This is what's written and written, especially when a sentence that refers to what's important doesn't make sense, can create problems in implementing this election law. I don't expect problems because it's not a lexical law, but because the law sanctions an unconstitutional and illegal situation in this assembly on the day of the election for the MPs of that assembly there. Those problems will just pile up and they'll have to hit on your head. You have an example of the DSS in front of you. She was advocating the abolition of parliamentary rights, and here they are, now bringing themselves into mourning. Not everyone's moaning, some are working with the Democratic Party and they're not talking. Those who fight honestly, they think they should fight here with the Democratic Party. How many of these smart ones that are silent and know that this fight is only falsified and that it is again used to create opposition against the opposition in the Serbian Parliament. There is no authority of the opposition, and there is no authority from the opposition. It'll be clear to you soon when there's a new election. Just waiting for the day after the next election, in which Ceda Jovanovic will be head of the opposition party's parliamentary group, and one of us will be head of the ruling party's parliamentary group. Cedomir Jovanovic will flourish from a democracy that will then rule in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26269	Right on the line, MP dean mihail.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26270	Mr. Nikolic, unlike some, we were never favorite opposition. Who was the favorite opposition, we know very well. That's the role of the favorite opposition and opposition in power we know how you played it. I really don't want to talk about it and waste my words. Whether this Rules of Procedure is good or not; the changes made on the DSS proposal, that was somewhere in September 2001, were going in the direction of not these restrictions, not having a debate for five hours, but in the other direction. That helped make work more efficient. These last changes went to a restrictions on the rights of parliamentary groups. We voted against them and they were last year in May or June of the month, somewhere when she was having an affair with the DSS's parliamentary mandates. So now it's not about the status of the opposition, the authorities, the combination and the various other versions that we're talking about, and we'd have something to talk about, but back to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26271	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legal, the proposing representative has also accepted, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Both MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26272	We propose that article 19 be changed and that it reads: "All MPs shall cease to elect new MPs in the direct or indirect elections for the Assembly or the election of new MPs by the new National Assembly. Before the time of his election ends, the MP shall cease his mandate for the reasons provided for by the law of the Republic of Serbia that regulates the selection of MPs. When the MP ceases his term before the time he was elected, the political party freely chooses his replacement from the summary list." The farthest law does not prescribe everything, but only some of the reasons why, according to the Law on the selection of MPs, the term of office of MPs ends before the time. There are three reasons for the early termination of the term of office of MPs: due to the termination of membership in a political party or coalition on whose list the MP has been elected, for taking over jobs or functions incompatible with the function of MPs or for deleting from the register by the political party's competent authority or other political organisation on whose list he is elected. It is unclear to what extent the legislators have left out three reasons for the early termination of the term of office. We assume that their argument is based on the fact that two provisions of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, Article 88, paragraph 1 and 9, whose constitutionality has been disputed by the Constitutional Court of Serbia. The argument is unacceptable, because one law is applied until it ceases to apply. It is unclear why the reason for the resignation of the MP's mandate was "by taking over the work or functions that are incompatible with the function of MPs under the Law on the Selection of Members of Parliament". This is Article 88(1) point 5. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. The constitutional dispute has not been initiated around him, and it turns out that the MP can survive his term in the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly and if his mandate has ceased in the National Assembly, which is simply impossible. Then, if the mandates are distributed by parliamentary groups, why did the legislators not provide for the MP to cease his term if he was elected to the second parliamentary group from the parliamentary group on whose list he was elected. That's allowed. He was elected MP as a representative of a certain parliamentary group, so his resignation of members of the group would also call off his mandate in the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. The absence of such a provision in the bill leads MPs now, within the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly, to move from one parliament group to another without any sanctions and thus destroy the legality of the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly. The amendment first corrects all errors and prescribes that the term of office ceases before the end of the time it was elected for the reasons set out in the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments. Of course, the MP whose term of office ended before time is replaced by a candidate in exchange for a summary list, which prevents speculation possible under the bill, under which elections from the appropriate parliamentary group are being held, on a proposal from an appropriate parliamentary group, which is extremely unclear in Article 20. The amendment then lists the reasons why the mandate ends all MPs elected by the National Assembly in the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly. To all MPs, the mandate ends with the election of new MPs, in indirect or direct elections for the Serbian Parliament or the election of new MPs by the new National Assembly. The formulation covers all cases of the end of the term of office of all Members. Namely, the election of all MPs in the Assembly of the State in the direct or indirect elections for the Assembly is possible first if the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly is disbanded within the deadline within which MPs are elected indirectly, when the election of new MPs to the Assembly is re-mediated or due to the time to which MPs are elected. To all MPs in the Assembly, the mandate ends with the election of new MPs in the National Assembly, which makes up the new assembly of the National Assembly. This is about the termination of the mandate as a result of the end of the mandate of all MPs in the National Assembly within the deadline within which MPs in the Serbia-Montenegro National Assembly are elected indirectly, when MPs are elected to the Serbia-Montenegro Assembly after the constitution of the new National Assembly in indirect elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26273	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 19th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević and joint MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsić, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelković, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic together. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26274	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Soviet Parliament group has tabled an amendment to Article 19 by suspending the term of office before the time he was elected if his membership in the political party or coalition on whose election list he was elected as MP. Points 1-7 become points 2-8. The reasons for the early termination of the mandate of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament's parliamentarians must agree with the reasons for the early termination of the mandate of MPs in the Serbian Parliament by applying the Law on the selection of MPs. This law lists seven reasons for ending the term of office, such as resigning, a judicial decision of law, a loss of citizenship and the like. One of the basic reasons, which is the termination of membership in a political party or coalition on whose election list he was elected, is not taken into account. Since we have been elected here on election lists for which citizens voted, we remain consistent with the original position in our amendment on Article 5. We believe that this law could be very easy to accept if our amendments were adopted. The amendments to Article 5 and Article 19 of the Law would give them the right content to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26275	The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26276	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS has tabled an amendment to Article 19 on the termination of the mandate before the time for which the MP was elected. This member would certainly be complete if the proposing had not accidentally or intentionally left out the first point of Article 88. The Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, which lists all the reasons why the MP ends his term before the time he was elected. Among other reasons, it is said that if it is excluded from the political party on whose election list it has been elected as MP, the MP will cease his term. However, the leading majority in the Assembly did not respond, given that the current majority in parliament they did not have, so that what they promised citizens, that they would respect the rights of citizens, democratic principles and enforce laws, meet only when it suits them, so they had to lurk and serve MPs who were excluded from the SAA, from the Soviet Union, and thus create new phantom parliamentary groups. I feel sorry for some of my colleagues who, by mistake or by their error, went after a man who shows his true face every day and uses DOS to fulfill ideas and goals. We are sure that such a situation here will be visible to all of us, that individuals serve only to fulfill what DOS imagined in the congregation. However, what DOS promised the people did not conduct on the ground, and today I had a call from Kosovo Poland where Deputy Director of the Railway Station in Kosovo Polj suggested that workers of Serbian nationality leave the administrative building in Kosovo, because there is nothing to look for. Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling majority, you only promise one nation, and another you work in the field. I'm sure that under this law, the people will see how they vote and see who they vote for in the future. Those representatives who will be in political parties, we will see if citizens will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26277	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26278	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, this member of the law shows what we have claimed throughout the debate, both in principle and in particular, to propose that, when the objective is achieved, every relationship with the previous situation ends with respect to the situation in place. If the promoter wanted to be consistent, then it would be logical to place among the reasons why the term of office was suspended and to suspend membership in the parliamentary group from whose list he was elected. Obviously, I don't need that, as he won't need those parliamentary groups when he meets this goal. The court will certainly rule in favour of those who are entitled to those terms, and we Socialists are one of them, because we have the right to five terms that the congregation majority has taken from us. It is obvious that when the law is adopted, MPs who support the government and the DOS proposals are to be represented in parliament, that their mandate cannot be taken away. Well said the promoter, they become the owners of their mandate. Essentially, most of the provisions of this article do not have its contents and are not applicable. Which means attitude one, where it's said, by resigning, the term of office ends. We witnessed 13 people in writing saying he was resigning. The Administrative Committee has been informed of this. It was found here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. These people didn't make a single gesture, not in writing or verbally, to pull it back, no matter what that wouldn't do, but they didn't, the assembly didn't realize it. So, whatever. We know, of course, that if we come to this in the meantime from the resignation and while it is being determined, the price of that resignation will also be determined and, of course, it will go beyond that as if it didn't exist. We have suggested, counterpart Mitrovic explained this, that one of the reasons why the MPs' term of office should be the termination of membership in the political party or coalition from whose list he was elected. We think it shows our consistency with this proposal. We believe that the basis that someone is gaining should be a political party or coalition from whose lists he has been elected, and based again on the moods of citizens and that it should serve as the basis for the allocation of mandates. Why is this consistency and why is it necessary? For the simple reason that none, but none of these MPs went to the polls with their name and last name. There are only two electoral systems in the world, majority and proportional, and twenty modifications to that electoral system. MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia were elected by a proportionate electoral system. Political parties and coalitions have formed electoral lists. They were all represented from number one to 250, and the Socialists, lined up in alphabetical order. Citizens voted in favour of the election lists. They didn't vote for any individual. All these 250 people participated in the election campaign. The party has finally determined who it is to represent the political party in the Serbian Parliament. None of those 250 people were bothered and there was no problem with being on the political party list. He didn't mind putting his integrity and his name on the list. It wasn't even a problem when they were chosen. Of course, there's a problem when they're turned off. The fact is that the party has these mandates and should be available to them. On the other hand, we have a situation where the law doesn't apply, and then these provisions don't necessarily mean anything, because they remain an empty letter on paper. We felt it necessary to submit this amendment and thus create a link between the election of MPs and the mandate. If it doesn't exist, it all loses its meaning. We know that this law is actually for one-time use. The MPs will be elected. The law as such will no longer apply. We also know that by reducing the number of MPs within this assembly, within the parliamentary groups, they will be punished, as we Socialists are, because we are being stolen from two mandates, but that is why the phantom parliamentary groups will be rewarded and the assembly majority will be rewarded. The amendment of counterpart Mitrovica makes sense, as the owners of the mandate are political parties and they should also be available to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26279	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is given by MP Stevan Kesejić:
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26280	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, sort of compared to the start of the commission's work on the constitutional field, began to leak some news about a cloned baby in America and then the controversy suddenly passed on and in the already former SRJ; and experts, scientists, waved about whether there was a possibility of being born in Serbia a baby, cloned or not. And all of this was denied by the proponent of this bill on the selection of MPs, because a cloned child was born. The SRS went to the 2002 elections, with its election list. Apparently, they've all read about that cloned child, so now they're not interested in this law, which is presented here with the same style and style. So, since the SRS went to the polls, with its electoral list and also the other three political parties, or options, one coalition and two parties, it would, in the opinion of Serbian radicals, be perfectly normal not to end the voter's will and to apply this principle in this law on election of MPs. Not to be on the principle of delegates, but to choose from election lists from MPs or federal MPs, who at that time represented a certain power, i.e. a number. The 19th article, to which, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted the amendment, speaks in fact about the desire and intention to execute the thief. A mess in the O.R. ) Have you noticed that drunk MPs attacked the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group and you did nothing?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26281	I ask the MPs to take their seats in the O.R. Still a mess in the O.R. An emissary from the O.R.: What kind of session is this when MPs are fighting here? What's this? I ask that you take your place and not make a mess in the hall, MP, as well as all other MPs. Please take your seats and continue your work. I ask the MPs to take their seats so that MP Stevan Kesejić can finish his presentation and we can continue the session. You still have two minutes to talk about the amendment. You used three minutes. I ask you to listen to the MP who has two minutes left on the amendment. [[Sagar.]] Here you go. I ask MP Alexander Vukic to take his place to continue our work, to hear his fellow MP from his group, he has one minute left, and I ask the MP to, if he will, use that one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26282	Madam Chairman, I wasn't bothered by Alexander Vukic, but you made it impossible for me to expose Namely, you did not allow indirect, through the MPs of the DOS who created the crowd here, to present my amendment. [[echoing - laugh]] I don't really see the point of exposing him anymore. There is no point in exposing him at all, because MPs of the Democratic Party and their coalition partners have obviously made a decision on how they will vote. It is certain that this amendment would affect the improvement of the law. He couldn't fix it, because this can't even be fixed with hot water, which is cloned by Chad.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26283	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? There's a word for George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26284	There's been a knock mistake here. As far as Article 20 is concerned, it shall be referred to when a Member terminates his term of office in the case referred to in Article 21(1) to (6). Article 21 has only one position and it's obviously a mistake, probably referring to Article 19. [[Sagar.]] Since there was no correction, I suppose that actually in this first row text refers to... Therefore, Article 20 states - when the Member ceases his term of office in the case referred to in Article 21(1) to (6). It's obviously a knock mistake here. [[growls]] It is referred to as Article 19 of Items 1 to 6, so it should be corrected in Article 21, because it is also referred to as Article 21, Paragraph 1 to 6, and it is referred to as Article 19. If the amendment to Article 19 we proposed on behalf of the DSS were adopted then this Article 20 would be pointless, it would be excessive. We are in Article 19, which is Amendment 13, and we have stated that all Members of Parliament are to cease the election of new MPs in the indirect or direct elections for the assembly or the election of new MPs by the new National Assembly; before the end of time for which the MP has been elected, the mandate shall cease for the reasons provided for by the law of the Republic of Serbia governing the selection of Members of Parliament; when the term of office ceases before the time he is elected, the political party shall freely choose his replacement from the summary list. I think our 13th Amendment to Article 19 is more fully regulated and if that amendment were adopted then this Article 20 would become excessive and I therefore recommend this amendment as a good solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26285	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? Here's a word for the MP Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia is proposing that Article 20 be amended and read as follows: "When the MP ceases his term in the case of Articles 19 to 6 of this Law, the National Assembly will elect a new MP from the appropriate parliamentary group or MPs from the last one to call the Council of Citizens, or the Greater Republic of the Federal Assembly, proposed by the appropriate political party, political coalition or other organisation represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the parliamentary mandates won in the December 2000 elections." So that's what we mentioned yesterday and today many times, precisely the elimination of parliamentary groups and the legalisation of the electoral will of citizens, because the political reality we called on was measured by the electoral will of the citizens in 2000 and until the new elections it is such and only relevant that it gives MPs to the Federal Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26287	Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was tabled by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, representative of the motionary. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are left to discuss the details of the seven amendments, I suggest we extend the time, end the debate in particular, and then join the vote. Before we make this decision as a Assembly, I ask you to establish a quorum. The SRS are leaving the O.R. I'm guessing we have a quorum. So, I propose that the National Assembly continue to work until the debate is over in detail and then join the vote on the draft of this law. For 121 against 34 abstentions, 35 did not vote five out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to continue the work and then join the vote on the law. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Please report in time. Because you're yelling. If you were quieter, you'd hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26288	I'm sorry, I wasn't yelling. Jagor's general in the O.R. It's in your jurisdiction, not mine. I wouldn't want to take over your intelligence. As you said, the Socialist Party parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 20 for the reason that, in accordance with our amendment to Article 19, conditions for the termination of the term of office are increased and that what is provided for by law is introduced, which is Article 88. The law on the election of MPs, that the mandate may also cease with the termination of membership. This amendment of ours is just in agreement with the previous amendment, if adopted. So the number of points from one to six increases from one to seven. We think this amendment is useful, for the reason that certain problems will arise in the new parliament as well. There have been a lot of words here about how and how mandates can be lost, who is the owner, whether they are parliamentary groups, whether they are coalitions, whether they are lists that were the subject of the vote, or for which the electoral body has been declared, and a lot of arguments are given to be owned by those who made up the lists and that they can have mandates. If the termination of membership is not the condition, how will political parties, lists or coalitions be able to hold mandates. We will come to a situation of one absurdity to, say, make a request for Coca-Cola to have five MPs in the Republic Assembly or in the Assembly of the State to call a tender, to sign five MPs and sign to accept the Koka-Kola parliamentary group or the Heineken parliamentary group or the MP group I do not know. They will be their own to have their mandates and thus we will have a sea of parliamentary groups and opportunities. I'm banalizing this all the way, but I'm saying that this possibility in our Parliament, in addition to everything that's going on, can happen. It is this amendment and those that follow it, as well as compliance with the amendment to Article 19 that regulates it, that prevents such opportunities. They will be able to form various parliamentary groups with these or those names and that those who did not participate in the elections can have them. Let's say, the SPO sign up and find five MPs who will form a SPO parliamentary group, and we know that the election has not passed a 5% censorship and that there is no parliamentary group in this parliament. The amendment therefore sets out to coordinate what is said in the amendment to Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26289	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26290	This amendment would make up for the story we have here these few days, which is that when the issue of mandates in the Republic of Parliament and those illegal mandates is resolved, those MPs in the federal parliament and those elected after the adoption of this law, and not legitimate MPs in this House, lose that seat and that political parties, to which they belong, in a subsequent procedure, literally elect MPs in those places. It is therefore important for this amendment to show good will, to respect the parliamentary relationship of power in this Parliament, rather than artificially created. I just got off the phone with the Rules of Procedure and I really don't understand such discrimination with regard to the Socialist Party of Serbia. When one of Serbia's Socialist Party MPs takes off his jacket because it's warm, comes out of the O.R., he gets kicked out of the O.R. When security enters the O.R. here, and security has no right to enter the O.R. without a call from the President of the Assembly, we need someone to explain to us why security went into the O.R. or whoever caused the incident in this room, which is why security came in, to be removed from this assembly. In this way, the Socialist Party of Serbia considers that the President of the Assembly's decision, which has been discriminated against, has thrown out one of its MPs because he was warm and took off his jacket, and other MPs, for whom security enters, are privileged here and can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26291	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. The word has the People's Messenger George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26292	I have just made an observation to article 21 that the draft article 21 was listed in the paper instead of Article 19, and I have given an explanation here, so I would remind you once again why we propose to adopt Amendment 13 to Article 19, whose adoption and article 21 is becoming excessive. The amendment, therefore, reads: "All MPs end their mandate by selecting new MPs in the indirect or direct elections for the Assembly or by electing new MPs by the new National Assembly. Before the time of his election ends, the MP shall cease his mandate for the reasons provided for by the law of the Republic of Serbia that regulates the selection of MPs. When the MP ceases his term before the time he is elected, the political party freely chooses his replacement from the summary list." The same argument applies to Articles 22 and 23, and if Amendment 13 were to be adopted to Article 19, members 22 and 23 would become redundant.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26293	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The same amendment to Article 21, which was submitted jointly by the MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija, pulled the MP Srdjan Sikimic at the session of the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic submitted the 21st amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee has rejected this amendment. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26294	Dear Mrs Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the parliamentary group whose member I have submitted an amendment to Article 21 with an explanation that the number six is replaced by seven and that this would not seem so supremacy that we, in the explanation, say that it is appropriate to amend the text of the law, which introduced the new point 1 and the renumberation of the remaining points. So, the bottom line of our pledge is this: this law, which certainly has a one-time use, because it regulates how in the new community of states we will elect MPs to parliament, examples of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, is more precisely Article 88(1), which states that if it is excluded, that I should not use the other word - thrown out of the political party to which it belongs. We also advocate that the provision be introduced into this law that, if a particular party, option or coalition says that for some reason a member of a member of the party has ceased to be sanctioned, it will also be sanctioned. We have no other thoughts but to measure one law and the other law and to incorporate what already exists in positive legal practice and what will be for single use. By accepting our amendments to Article 19, you would also accept this amendment which essentially only represents a more complete explanation of our request for a vis-à-vis member 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26295	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 22, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does anyone else in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does anyone else in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does anyone else in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 23, to which the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does anyone else in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) I remind you that the Legislative Committee has carried out a legal-technical editorial of the text of the bill so that: - in Article 2 the words "Serbs and Montenegro" are added to the words "Serbs and Montenegro"; - in Article 3(2), Article 19 paragraph 7, Article 22 paragraphs 1 and 2 and Article 23 paragraphs 1 and 2 after the words "Serbs and Montenegro"; - in Article 19 paragraph 3 after the words "Serbs and Montenegro" add the words "Serbia and Montenegro" to the words "Serbia and Montenegro"; - in Article 5(2), the words "D'Ontov" are replaced by the words "D'Ontov"; - in Article 9(1), the words "Serbs and Montenegro" are added to "Serbs" in writing 1. The legislator agreed with the legal and technical regulation of the Legislative Committee. I find that the legal and technical order implemented by the Legislative Committee will be introduced into the text of the law when preparing the law to be published in "the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26296	After we've completed the search of the bill in particular, I'm asking if the legislator wants the final word? Here's a word from MP Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform and a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26297	Ms. Micic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think I am obliged to offer once again the arguments presented in the opening statement before our parliamentary group, after two days of a very difficult debate, because, in the opinion of the Members who proposed this law, they are an inevitable factor that they deserve in themselves and I think they will get the necessary support of parliament. The law on selecting MPs for the Serbian-Montenegro National Assembly is merely the finalisation of one job in the legal sense of the initial definition of the Belgrade Agreement and the support given to this agreement by this parliament, and then by the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the implementation of the Constitutional Charter, they were also voted by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then by the parliament of Montenegro, and then by the Federal Assembly. In the law on election ambassadors for the Serbia-Montenegro National Community Assembly, we have been handling the principles on which the documents that bind us to respect at the moment are resting. I think that many problems have actually arisen from the inadequacy to respect the legality shown in the Constitutional Charter and the Law on its implementation. So, at this point, I repeat that we as the parliamentary majority are ready to respect each amendment if it does not in itself constitute a purely political will that seeks to retain a situation from the past, but rather, shows a clear view that, on the one hand, it respects the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, and, on the other hand, respects reality, because in the society in which we live, it is practically impossible to define all interests, legalize them or otherwise challenge them. After all we've been through as a country, we can talk about very clear interests, they are articulated by the parties, but these interests are not uniform and they are mutually opposed. These interests have also been confirmed in this congregation debate as interests that cannot be reconciled. So, no law nor the Law on selecting MPs for the National Assembly can bridge those differences within our coalition, not within some opposition parties, nor make the political majority in this parliament a minority in the Serbia-Montenegro state union parliament. What we can do as a Assembly is by a different attitude towards this state community, which today demonstrates by participating in the debate and by voting on this law, we show our willingness to create something that will per se be more permanent than a certain majority or more eternally than an election result. It is possible that the elections for that assembly are repeated in three, four, five or six months, and no later than two years as direct, but today we must define the foundations of the state community as something indisputable. If Serbia-Montenegro's undeniable interest, as expressed through the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, is a state union that can develop on defined grounds, then we should preserve that state union with our behaviour. That doesn't mean we should all vote unanimously, but it means we should respect each other. At this point, we, as the parliamentary majority, respect all the wills that are, above all, constructive and do not encourage efforts to dissipate every job. We are prepared to accept an amendment that clarifys and removes the minimum fear that the collection list will be partially adopted, not in part. Indeed, we cannot accept amendments that challenge the right of the parliamentary group to be a candidate for MPs in the new Assembly, and we cannot accept amendments that are defined on 23 December 2000 as this key criterion for determining the ratings and mutual relations of participants in our parliamentary life. Why can't we give up the parliamentary group? It is precisely because the parliamentary group is the only actor in parliament's political life, not the party. When you look at the amendments that we have submitted as assembly MPs, you will see that each amendment has the name of our parliamentary group. Whether she's fictional or not, she's a reality stemmed from the relationship of political forces in our assembly. What are the difficult circumstances? The daunting circumstances are such that it is actually impossible by one law to deny all those divisions and differences that marked our years of work. What we can do is, first of all, with a responsible relationship, according to the work to come, we give this state community a chance to develop and be better than what it is, let's say, imagined by the Constitutional Charter; it's a lot of things that are problematic, but it is an expression of the reality that we have accepted. If we have accepted that principle once, then we are obliged to respect it in all future actions, so also in this one. Political relativity requires us to follow the path that we will make the least of our mistakes and damage the least of the MPs and citizens they represent. Practically, this means that we should respect parliament as a electoral body, a 250-seat parliament representing citizens. Whether representatives of citizens are only parties or MPs, we have given our definition as DOS. That definition was not accepted by the Constitutional Court and we no longer want to discuss it. When the Constitutional Court assesses and gives its final judgment, we will accept and implement it. So we have not trampled anyone's election will. On the contrary, we try to preserve and honor it to the extent possible. Among other things, this is why we so uncompromisingly insist on implementing this law, because we see our coalition as the political force of those citizens who voted two years ago for changes in our country - social, economic, cultural, in the way of policymaking, in relation to Serbia-Montenegro. It is not possible to live at the level defined in 1992, it was not an acceptable level from 2000, but that is why we think we should do and give this final effort of our own to, in fact, adopt this law as a parliamentary majority and thus send representatives of those who act in Serbia's parliament today. That's our maximum right now. We agree with the amendments in that direction, but not with those whose aim is to price, which marked our two-year work in this parliament, is repeated in the parliament of the new state union. If we cannot regulate our relationships in this congregation, I think we are obliged to regulate them in a different, more correct way in this congregation that we are creating today. Practically, this means that the parliamentary majority in this parliament must also be the parliamentary majority in the Serbia-Montenegro state union parliament. How is this parliamentary majority formed? In accordance with political interests. Today, coalitions of left and right parties are being created in the world, coalitions of green and conservatives are being created and no one sees anything more than an effort to bring political interests into line to make society work. I am pleased that we have managed to bring these interests into line with the need for the smooth functioning of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that by voting, we will transfer this relationship to the level of the state community, which will begin to function in a different way than anything that has marked its shortest history in the last 10 years. So give us a chance to do what was created on January 27th by voting in this House. We agree with the amendments that remove any confusion and reduce the possibility of abuse and thus show our willingness to do this work differently from our predecessors, but we cannot accept those amendments that actually bind our society to events from two years ago, which have been overcome by all that has been done in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-13-0.u26298	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly in principle. . For 124, against 42, abstentions 43, of the 209 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that MP Srdjan Sikimic withdrew the amendments to Articles 8 and 21 at the session of the Legislative Committee, which he submitted together with visiting MP Nada Kolundžija. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments of MP Cedomir Jovanovic to the members of the 20th and 21st and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Articles 5 and 18. I also remind you that the Legislative Committee has carried out a legal-technical editorial of the text of the bill's proposal, which will be entered into the text of the law in its preparation for publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija under the name of the bill. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 152 abstentions, there was no 48 vote, out of 210 MPs. I find that the People's Liquor has not accepted this amendment. The MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 131, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26 out of 210 MPs. I find that the People's Liquor has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija together submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 53, against 127, with four abstentions, it did not vote 26 out of 210 MPs. I find that the People's Liquor has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There are no abstentions for 81, against 113, not 16 votes, out of 210 MPs. I find that the People's Liquor has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 55, against 126, three abstentions, were not voted 26 out of 210 MPs. I find that the People's Liquor has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 32, against 161 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ćirkovic, Zlata Đeric and Miodrag Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 82, against 115, the abstentions were not voted 15, of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 12, against 161, a abstentioned one, was not voted 37, out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 53, against 105, three abstentions, 49 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic submitted the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 37, against 159 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Ćirkovic, Zlata Đeric and Miodrag Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. There are no abstentions for 81, no abstentions, no 13 votes, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 37, against 159 abstentions, there was no vote of 15, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 67, against 117 abstentions, two did not vote 25 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. It wasn't against 162 abstentions of four, they didn't vote 42 out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 41, against 155, the abstentions were not voted 13 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For seven against 152, a abstentioned one, was not voted 49, out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 57, against 113, three abstentions, 36 of the 209 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 51, against 115, there are no abstentions, he did not vote 41, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For one, against 156, a abstentioned one, did not vote 49 out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 44, against 104 abstentions six, they did not vote 53, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. For 37, against 156, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 114 abstentions, there were no 44 votes, out of 210 members of parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 46, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 113, a abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 161 abstentions, two did not vote 46 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 114 abstentions, there were no 48 votes, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For, against 158, three abstentions were not voted 50 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zeljo Huric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 10, against 145, the abstentions were not voted 56 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 49, of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not, against 160, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 51, of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 52, against 109 abstentions, three did not vote 48 of the 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and together, MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 115, the abstentions were not voted 46 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 36, against 153, a abstentioned one, did not vote 21, out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. There was no, against 160, one abstention, no vote of 50, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 111 abstentions, there was no vote of 50, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Sikimic and Nada Kolundžija. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 56, against 105, two abstentions, were not voted 48 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 37, against 162 abstentions, there were no 11 votes, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 13 that were submitted jointly by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 48, against 112, two abstentions, were not voted 48 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 13 tabled by MP Miroljub Veljkovic. For one, against 160, the abstentions were not voted 49, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to Article 13 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic. For 53, against 105, three abstentions, 49 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 15, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic. For 49, against 106, with four abstentions, 51 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 15, which were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 50, against 109 abstentions, 51 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 15, which was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. For 58, against 106, the abstentions were not voted 45 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the 16th Amendments tabled jointly by the People's MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic. For 49, against 110, with five abstentions, there was no vote of 44, out of 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 16th vote, which was tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. For 44, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 41, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 49, against 117 abstentions, there were no 43 votes, out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 18, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic. For 48, against 109 abstentions six, did not vote 46 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. There was no 51 vote against the 158 abstentions, no 51, of the 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 19, which were jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 49, against 115, the abstentions were not voted 45 out of 209 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to the article 19, which were submitted together by MPs Dragan Marković, Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukić and Adam Urošević and joint MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelković, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetković, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. For 37, against 160, a abstentioned one, did not vote 12, out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 19, which was tabled by the people sent by Stevan Kesejic. For one, against 157 abstentions, they did not vote 52 out of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 19, which were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic. For 46, against 116, three abstentions, were not voted 46 out of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were submitted jointly by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. For 48, against 112 abstentions, he did not vote 51, of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to article 20, which was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. For 57, there are no abstentions against 116, 37 of the 210 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 20, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic. For 53, against 111, three abstentions, were not voted 44, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For it was not against 161, the abstentions were not voted 50, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrovica, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 34, against 161 abstention one, 15 did not vote, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 50, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 43, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of Parliament Dragan Todorovic, Joca Arsic, Toma Busetic, Zoran R. Angelkovic, Sreten Mitrović, Ljubomir Mucic, Dragan Jovanovic, Zarko Obradović, Đura Lazić, Dusan Cvetkovic, Hranislav Perić, Slobodan Tomović and Rade Bajic submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 38, against 159 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Alexic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 114 abstentions, there was no 48 vote, a total of 210 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic submitted together to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 114, abstention 2 was not voted 44, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojana Aleksic, Djordje Mamula and Petar Cvetkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 47, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 47, a total of 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nada Kolundžija and Srdjan Sikimic submitted together to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 112, abstention 41, they did not vote 42, a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to vote the bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as a whole. For 128, against 84, there are no abstentions, a total of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, passed a bill on the election of MPs of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly as a whole. I hereby conclude the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2003.
