ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29448	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 101 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I would like to inform you that the following MPs will be absent: Meso Omerović, Neda Arnerić, Pal Shandor, Milos Radivojčević, Bojan Kostreš, in the morning Milena Andrić and Radomir Naumov, and Zoran M. Nikolic will be late. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Financial Lising (specificities) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29449	Dear colleagues, Madam Chairman, I advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure, Articles 28, 41 and 73. Article 28, item 1 of the 4th indent, provides for the obligations and powers of the President of the National Assembly, who, among other things, is to be taken care of for the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. Article 41(4) provides for meetings of committees and committees to be held, as a rule, on Mondays and Fridays, and can be held on other days if the President of the National Assembly so approves. Article 73(2) provides that the Chair of the Committee shall convene a session of the Committee at least one third of the total number of board members, or a third of the full composition of the Board, within the meaning of Articles 25 and 43 of this Rules of Procedure, as well as at the request of the President of the National Assembly. If it does not do so within the required time limit, the committee shall convene the Vice-President of the Committee or the President of the National Assembly. I remind you that yesterday at the beginning of the session you were responsible for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Dejan Mihajlov, among other things, said that you had scheduled a meeting with the board of directors, referring to the Committee on Culture and Information, and the representatives of RTS, "to reach an agreement on this issue. That meeting will be held tomorrow," I read this from the stenographic notes. To my statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure on the same matter, you said, I quote: "I call on the Administrative Board to respond to the MP Gordani Pop-Lazic for the remarks she made," and I find out that the Committee was held. "Secondly, I urge MP Gordan Pop-Lazic to participate in ensuring the transfer at tomorrow's meeting, to attend a meeting with RTS leadership. "Mr. Chairman, the SRS parliamentary group has not received notice of how many hours you scheduled for the Committee on Culture and Information, nor have we been able to see it on the advertising board. We have been informed from the daily press that the Committee will be held at 11.00 p.m., from the second daily list that the Committee is scheduled for 12:00 p.m. and I therefore comment that you are not doing a good job that you should be doing, referring to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29450	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29451	Please don't quote what I'm quoting you to take from me in time, because I've read a lot from the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29452	And the fact that you quoted the same goes in at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29453	It doesn't go into time, it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29454	Don't come in, find out where the Rules of Procedure comes in at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29455	You want to listen to me? I ask you, since you have personally called me by name and by last name to help you secure the transmission, to allow me to first know when the meeting will be held. Secondly, if you were planning to take place during the Assembly session, since I am not yet in a situation where I can clone myself, to ensure a break in the work of the National Assembly, in order to respond to your call, because I simply feel it would be inappropriate not to answer that call and not to give my contribution to the work of that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29456	A brief answer: a session of the Committee on Culture and Information with RTS representatives, they confirmed it just before the beginning of the session, will be held at 1200 hours. Where, Mrs. Angelka Dimitrijevic, in which room, do you know? Room number one on the ground floor. And, pause, I don't know if the practice of the National Assembly has been in session for more than two years, and I'm sorry that you're not present at the board's work. (Goldana Pop-Lazic, from the post: Every MP has the right to attend even though he is not a member of the board. ) Of course, you are invited to attend and can attend, and later to attend the session, the session will be held. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. We received a report from the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29457	The Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the parliamentary group, of the SPS colleague Todorovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 2 of the Law, with the intention that in this article, which regulates that a lising provider with a lising subject delivers a contract on the basis of which the right of ownership is obtained and that a leaser concludes a contract on a financial lease, a third point - with a leaser closes a contract on a fixed sale of the lising object, at the end of the agreed deadline on the financial lease or during the term of the contract. Our commitment to extending Article 2 of this law is based on the fact that, if we want to activate the economy practically, to increase the import of equipment and enable our economy to start working more efficiently and faster, to create new products and to enable the employment of as many people as possible, it is necessary that the equipment that is given in licking can and be bought after the completed period of lising. The fact is that no one is based on production for a year or two, no one is launching new products into the market for such a short period of time, because only for product affirmation, to obtain the image of that product on our market takes about so long, so that anyone investing in a new product expects that product to last many years and produce permanently. I worked at a factory that's been making colossus for 50 years. It's a pasta for teeth that's of world quality. No one's gonna take a machine to pack that "colonos" in the licking for a short period if they can't permanently produce that product. In addition, just for examples of drug factories, cosmetics and other processing branches that buy in licking, are taken into account in the lease of machinery for the production and packaging of certain products, it is clear that new products are also being created during use, for example, machines for the packing of toothpaste, to use machines for the production of drugs with new drugs that come out over a certain period of time, so that it is of general interest to create that possibility. We think it's very celibate to expand the definition of financial lease business, primarily to specify the possibility that a leaser definitely buys the equipment or plant after the lease is finished. In the context of the government, which is very extensive, it seems to me that in many places, in one unconsistent way, this is being denied what is being said and what we have advocated. In the explanation the government gave us (we had a chance to get it a few minutes ago), when it comes to equipment, the government says that often the leaser has no interest in keeping the object of the lising. I think that's for sure only if someone took the equipment for some sort of Lon production they're doing temporarily for someone, for some products that are his temporary character. When it comes to someone who works permanently for the Serbian, global and European market, it certainly does not stand to reason that the recipient has no interest in keeping the object of the lising permanently. It is also argued that the ransom provided for in Article 3(2) of this Law is not a favourable solution for a leaser. I don't think that's the right explanation that it's not a good thing, because anyone who takes the equipment in the licking wants it to be permanent. (President: Time. I hope you will have the understanding, in addition to the reasons you have given, to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29458	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Please, MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29459	Ms. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was not the intention of the SPS MP, as the promoter of this amendment, to make an imperative determination of the obligation to either the giver or the recipient of the lising that he must buy the equipment that is the subject of the lising. The intention was to define the business of lysing extensively and to determine, with this point 3) within Article 2, the possibility that the equipment which is the subject of the lysing may be made available by the contracting parties, the donor and the lysing recipient, the subject of the definitive purchase, or the sale. So that was the intention. It is possible that, in the context of these formulations, we were not to the end precise, but in this additional explanation, I would like to say what was the essence of the proposal. Why did we even point out the story? Because we think that one of the essential elements of the financial lease contract is that end of the deal, and that possibility of buying out the object of the lising by someone who has used it for a certain period of time. In a situation where we don't have enough funds to invest in the purchase of equipment, when we don't have enough credit lines either by banks or by state funds to finance all of this, financial lease is one of the options for making it relatively easier to obtain adequate work, i.e. equipment, technology, licenses, etc. That's why it seems to me that exactly the gravity of this law should be in pushing for such an opportunity. The leaser cannot be damaged by the fact that at the end of the contractual period of 36 months, of five or ten years, at a symbolic price, he will buy the equipment, but he may be damaged if such a right is not given by this law and if the person who gives the licking does not in any way commit to such equipment, if the leaser is interested, to sell to the particular lysing recipient who has calmed down 95%, in some variants even 99% of the value of the equipment he used, through the war he paid. So that was the point. It was not the essence of the imperative obligation to sell, or to buy equipment, but to define in the definition of the lease business, that in the further provisions of the contract we have the possibility of two parties agreeing and thus definitely buying, or selling the equipment that is here. That's why it seems to me that the government's argument of rejecting this amendment can only stand in case we said so, that the equipment must be sold. No, you don't. We've only expanded the work in which we give both parties the opportunity to implement these equipment at the end of the whole business. That's why I think the minister should consider and accept this SPS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29460	Does anyone else sign up for a word? According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29461	Madam Chairman, I am reluctant to pardon you, but I must correct you, since you have rebuked us not to participate in the committee's work. It's our decision, you can't interfere with it, like you can't even force us to attend sessions. So, we ourselves decide whether we will participate in the work of the session or in the work of the committee. The board members may attend and participate in its work, without the right to decide, and a MP who is not a member of the committee. This is the position of Article 74. The Serbian Radical Party, entering the government of the People's Unity, conditioned 1997 to provide direct transfers of assembly sessions. So it's the current of that regime, authoritarian, as you call it. We have every right to demand that you allow us to participate in the work of that committee and to contribute, to fight for the preservation of our assets. So it's not about your fluids, it's about ours, which are now threatened by this government. Therefore, I would like to ask one more of you to take a break in the work of the Assembly, given the importance of the topic, given the numerous discussions that were being held during the day before yesterday, as well as at the previous session. This assembly certainly has an interest in starting direct television broadcasts immediately after the decision is made, I hope positive. I assume you know that I am the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club and that I have an interest in getting involved in the debate in particular. You will deny me one of these two rights that belong to me as a People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29462	I don't know why we're doing this. I already said, you're invited to attend and I don't see what the problem is. Secondly, if there are working conditions, if we have a quorum, as before, we'll work, if we don't, we'll take a break. If there are so many interested people who want to attend the session and we don't have a quorum, we won't work. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Do you want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Slobodan Janjic submitted to the title above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Also, the Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment. The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29463	All the laws you have passed in this assembly (this concerns the ruling majority) have begun with some scandal, as did the legislator of this law who came here with the bill without taking an oath. It would be the same as if someone was sentenced to death by a judge who didn't take an oath and performs his duties as a judge. (President: Please return to the topic. What do you think the subject is? The draft financial lease law is not good for a number of reasons. In Article 3 of the Proposer of this Act, the deadline on which the contract is concluded cannot be shorter than two years. Taking into account the conditions in which our business entities operate and potential leasers, or equipment hirers, and it is known that the terms of the acquisition are very difficult and uncertain, I suggest that a correction be made in this article, so that the contract is not shorter than six months, so that the one who rented the equipment can see the effects of this lease of equipment within six months. Since our people are very poor anyway, those who go into this business, who want to take risks, don't have some huge capital, can't afford to rent equipment for two years and after six months realize it's not worth it, and they have to pay for the licking for two years. I accidentally did a private job, and I know how it works when the equipment is rented. I have experience in that part, and I think it would be very positive to cut the deadline to six months. If there are financial effects, it is normal for the person taking the equipment to extend the contract, to be of basic interest to him and to benefit from it all. Take an example of Mr. Nebojsa Covic: he took machines in the licking of Mr. Cumet, when he made asphalt roads to the Siptars in southern Serbia for two years, and his job lasted only six months. The gentleman would go bankrupt by paying, because the machines flew up to Grandpa Pere in the air, the mob blew them up, and he's supposed to pay for the licking for two years. You didn't predict this extraordinary circumstance to cause equipment damage, which could happen. It's a long period of two years. Mr. Nebojsa Covic is a very forgetful man. Think of only those plug factories, like war spoils from Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29464	I warn you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29465	Mr. Covic couldn't take that equipment in the licking. Since there was no adequate legal solution, that equipment was exported to Bulgaria, and he could make plugs here and smoke holes with those plugs. He put the money in his pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29466	I'm giving you my first warning because you're not sticking to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29467	I believe that this law, as well as all laws so far, will retroactively apply, and then you will be able to legalize some of the factories that individuals in power have taken. Now they're gonna take it in the licking, and this is how they took it in private. I again appeal to Mr. Minister to accept this amendment, to protect our people who will take the equipment in the licking; not to protect foreigners who will be lenders, or people of suspicious capital, this time out of power, who will give the equipment to licking, but to protect the common man and the one who enters the business, so that this job can be profitable to him and, possibly, if it is not profitable, to get out of it as soon as possible, not to suffer great losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29468	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29469	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Janjic's amendment is absolutely acceptable to the government's representative, that is, the proposing should take account not only of mere terminology, since Article 2 forgets that financial licking is a three-way contract, although it is two separate contracts, but we have three participants. Only what is referred to in point 2) in Article 2 is referred to as financial licking, and it is not without point 1) and without this participant. You didn't convince us yesterday, you were very poor in your response. On the subject of this amendment, the title above Article 3 should read as follows: "The Financial Lising Treaty". Also, the term "rock" is a feature of procedural law, and here, instead of the term "rock", it should use "time", because the contract always closes for a certain period of time, not a certain time. It's also in your bond law. It's just how we learned, and we won't give it up. We think the entire legal system should go through one terminology, because of the clarity and purity of legal style and the construction of a legal system. We suggest that the time on which the financial lease contract is concluded be at the shortest six months. In your explanation for the refusal of amendments, you state that in parallel law, a universal rule is accepted which these contracts are concluded for a long time, ranging between two and five years, for the longest 10 years, and you have proposed this law to be 30 years. So you've deviated from that universal rule that applies in parallel law, so I don't see why we can't reduce to six months now, especially when we have a situation that sometimes... I apologize for these 30 years, I've switched to concessions, because you've given us the opportunity to discuss both matter in 20 minutes, so sometimes a man gets into a situation where he doesn't know what law he's talking about. It's your own fault, and you're putting us in such an awkward situation to make labs. So it's possible that this contract can be as long as the contractors decide. Everyone protects their own interests, and the one who gives the licking, and the one who takes the licking. If they agree with each other, it's a seasonal job, someone wants to buy a leaser's combination in six months, how it's going to end, whether it's going to buy it after six months, or if it's going to end after six months, it's absolutely the right of the contractor. You can't explain that you're trying to convince us that we need to glorifise the contract, and then the motionary, Government, engages in determining the duration of time, or how the fee to be paid under the lease agreement is calculated. Don't interfere with the contractual relationship, you said - a triple contract, three participants, let them regulate it, but make it possible for those six months. If they decide it's two years, three years and so on. No one has any objection, but that would bring it down to two years; because simply there is no reason that a six-month deadline does not correspond to the nature of this contract and because of the fact that the adoption of such a solution would create the basis for law enforcement by concluding fictitious lease agreements, which are essentially sold. It's always in the end, practically, about sales. If the person who received the lease is interested in becoming the owner of the equipment he bought in the lease, it is, after all, a purchase contract, by having a certain period of time to pay off for the wars, or by paying for the lease. In that sense, we have submitted an amendment - you have not convinced us by your reasoning that we are wrong, but the basic reason why we are asking it to shrink, although we do not think it should stand at all, should leave it to the contractors to set a deadline for themselves, starting with basic economic interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29470	Thank you. The word has the minister of economic relations with abroad, Mr. Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to start by reacting to some of the comments that have been made so far, and I don't mean the last speaker, and I also note that I support some of the comments, I respect them, so there are some comments that I have to comment on. First, it is worth thinking about what we heard from Mr. Todorovic because there was a dilemma on the subject before, namely how to define the relationship between the lender and the recipient of the lising and the possibility of this type of obligation to define that the recipient of the lising has some kind of priority. But again, we have defined ourselves as a solution not to introduce this kind of imperative solution, the rules, but to give the contract the opportunity to solve the relationship between the recipient and the donor in a way that three possible options are given to the possibility of creating contractual obligations, respecting the autonomy of the bargaining -- that whoever uses the object of the lising, means the recipient, can buy, can continue to use, or return the object of the lising. Remember that there are a lot of situations where the user of the lising and how he wants to go back to some new technology after using it; so, after three years, why would I use something I've already used - I want to go on, I want to use new technology that improves my productivity, etc. So, there are reasons that have led us, but I'm saying we should have respect for this kind of thinking because we've had them under consideration, but we've defined that these are not imperative rules, but to leave it to the contractor's will to agree, and then whoever's being identified, whoever's the recipient of the lease, goes to a bigger option when making the contract, buying out what's the object of the lease. However, there are other comments; also referring to the Law on Liabilities, by defining Article 2, I have to say a few things: firstly, as regards the participants in the business and the subject of law, we have already had the opportunity to try to introduce some terminology and change something that exists thousands of years in juristic law. The right entity is a term created in Roman law and universally accepted; it has been used for 2,000 years. "Participators in the business" is a term created by the termology of the Law on Joint Labour, and if you think that's what should be the subject of this law we define ourselves for what termology exists from Roman law. Secondly, as regards the Law on Liabilities, I respond on time and, precisely, in article 77, Chapter VIII, the deadline is defined, and that is the terminology that has been adopted in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29472	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor the financial committee, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29473	Dear Mrs Micic, MPs, respected ministers, the MPs' Club of the Party of Serbian Unity gave the amendment to Article 3, which is the deadline for the conclusion of the contract, to replace the words "two years" with the words "12 months". It is known that it is a contract with a permanent execution of obligations, so it is because of the repetition of long-term debt operations and the payments of those wars. But one part goes into parallel law and it is said that the period of conclusion of the contract is between two and five years, up to a maximum of 10 years. However, there is also a part that applies to depreciation and, as a rule, cannot be less than 60%, which can now mean that if the asset is purchased as a ling object, with some less value, the deadline can be less than these two years, as indicated, so we have suggested this because it is the subject of a financial lease that can be absolutely seasonal character. So the actual jobs that are being done can be seasonal, and that's why we've given the amendment to cut the deadline to 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29474	Thank you. Has anyone else answered the question about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Jovan Todorovic. Is there an application for a word? He has the word of Ambassador Franislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which contains what is the subject of the lising, quote: "The subject of the financial lysing is a mobile non-consumable thing (equipment, facilities, vehicles, etc.)". I think it was necessary to list what it is that can still be a subject of lising, because a similar and broader term can be classified and interpreted as to who it suits. When it comes to the law, he must not be indeterminate, so my colleague and I have proposed to extend the subject of the lising - to remain what is in Article 4 and to add that the subject of the lising is both technology or license. If the leaser takes the equipment without technology, the question is whether the technology will work at all; if the new equipment goes with old technology, will it be able to withstand competition on the market. It can happen that a lysing recipient takes on the losing equipment, and then in the other part of the technology costs him more than the equipment and actually they can't function without each other. When you look well at Article 4, it is realistic that it expands with our proposal, but all we can do is suggest that when the law is applied, there are no specific problems. You are the congregation majority and it is up to you to accept this well - meaning proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29476	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29477	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is clear that Mr Pitic only yesterday became a minister, when he could write such an explanation refusing my amendment to Article 4. The explanation Mr Pitic wrote is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that by erasing the word "movable" it would result in the subject of the financial lease being immobilities. To read Article 4 on which I submitted the amendment: "The subject of the financial lysing is a mobile non-consumable thing (equiption, plants, vehicles and the like)". If we delete the word "movable", how can we treat immovable property as a thing? Can you treat the house or the factory hall as a thing? Don't talk to me. I can only speak to MPs here with members of the government. On the other hand, by adopting the proposed amendment, in a part relating to a rule that can only be things with a five-year depreciation period, there would be a significant narrowing of things that may be subject to the lising. For example, computers whose depreciation time is much shorter. Basically, every law should have a limiting factor, everything can be the subject of a lising. By refusing this part of my amendment, you've allowed the object of the lising other than the computer to be tables and chairs. It could be TV, refrigerator, freezer, anything that comes to a man's mind. Just to remind you: when we had amendments and additions to the Transport Tax Act, when Mr Djelic predicted that computers and computer equipment freed the payment of sales taxes, one of my colleagues, I don't know exactly which, he submitted the amendment that the Government is doing so by its sublegal act, with the reason that both tables and chairs can be computer equipment, part of hardware, that the government regulates it by means of a sublegal act. If the time limit for depreciation on such equipment is less than five years and when bookkeeping is worth nothing, the user of the lising can simply throw such a thing away. No one can sue him, because bookkeeping is no longer worth it. He was released from paying taxes on that thing, he was freed from paying customs duties, and on the other hand, you are introducing customs duties on sugar cane imported by Miodrag Kostic - MK Komerc, not to mention meat and other provisions of life. I think this is a shame and this amendment should be accepted anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29478	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29479	I don't know how to speak to a minister or to whom to address. I'm afraid I don't get a warning, because when I talk about ministers in a negative context, I get a warning, and when I commend a minister again, let's agree that I best, if it's not punishable, I say that the executive authority is the promoter. I can swear I won't mention any more of the Minister's names, except when they're here on the agenda, that their mistrust is passed. To return to this amendment I filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party. It refers to the concept of an executive authority that is not acceptable to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. It's about Article 5 talking about the delivery notice. In fact, this article is not precise enough, because, as in other members, it is deliberate or accidental, because of the terminology that certain very important words are left out. So, your concept, the concept of executive power, which is no good, is three-dimensional, which is the basic feature of which financial leases are separated from other similar transactions, and above all operational leases. So this term refers to this three-dimensional relationship. Article 5 of Article 1 states that the leaser is obliged to inform the deliveryer of the lising object that the subject of the lising is obtaining for the execution of the financial lease contract. Then there's one sentence missing, and we think it's very important that after the financial lysing, it's "in the delivery contract". Why? Because this would establish a precise link and a legal relationship between the supplier and the leaser, but always through the leaser. In fact, here it can happen to be in our people's house -- there's no telling who's drinking or who's paying. The worst part is that when such imprecise laws are applied with unspeakable members, there is often a "Bermudian triangle" -- there is no, no, gone, ate the dark. Or, as some of the executives, I won't mention the name again, but you'll recognize those people -- when they find the police of certain mobsters and criminals, then the funds disappear from the municipal budget, they know where the funds went, then they're said to be tone phantom firms, and then they come across a barrier, they find the judiciary, or the judiciary, which is independent of God, gets a warrant from that executive authority not to further investigate, because the money has gone into the pockets of some of the executive authorities. Therefore, I propose to the executive authority to accept this amendment, which would make it very precise, and the legal relationship between the supplier and the leaser would be far better.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29480	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29481	It can be concluded from the content of Article 5 that a leaser concludes a sale contract with a manufacturer of some equipment that he is on the basis of that contract providing financial resources through a loan, because from a principled debate, and the minister did not tell us that we are wrong, it was clear that the World Bank was interested in lending to foreigners to buy equipment produced, also abroad, which would be given to us. That's clear. Therefore, he concludes a deal on the sale and by that contract leads practically to the error of the lender, because he doesn't know, maybe not even interested, maybe he shouldn't be interested, that the equipment is going on the lease. Then you say in paragraph 2 that this notification by which the leaser informs the equipment manufacturer that it is a goods or equipment that is placed on the lease must be made at the latest until the time of completion of the delivery contract. Now it is not clear to us why, in the very contract that is concluded between the leaser and the supplier of the equipment, it is not that the leaser, you only need one member of the contract, which is said to be delivered here and that equipment to that and the leaser. There's something obviously blurry here. You know more than we know about how it will go and in whose interest this law is passed. For this reason, in our amendment, we believe that Article 1 should read: "The leaser is obliged to inform the deliveryer of the lising object that the object of the lising is supplied for the execution of the financial lease contract and to mark in the delivery contract a person who has the property of the leaser". What's this doing in that contract? This amendment establishes a precise link, a specific legal relationship between the supplier and the leaser, and always through the leaser. The one who receives the lease and has a contractual relationship has a legal job only with the leaser, not with the equipment delivery guy. We tried the amendment to fix this member ourselves a little bit, but we think first of all that he's been accidentally made and that he's too high, given that he's in chapter 1 concerning basic provisions, the title above Article 5 is the delivery notice. I think it is really unnecessary and that basic provisions should contain what is contained in the contract itself, not how anyone will inform of the delivery of goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29482	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MP Dragan Ljubojevic submitted to the title above the member and to the 6th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we insist that this member be specified and that the word "financial" be added in front of the words "leasing"; in a superscription above the article 6 and in the first and third positions to use that term -- financial licking. In an explanation that rejects this amendment, or does not accept it, the government says Article 2 of point 2) of this law said that the Financial Lising Treaty would be referred to as a lease contract in the text below. The government could also say in Article 1 of this law that in the further text of this law, financial leases will only be called lysing. Since one of the reasons for the adoption of this law was for this matter to be specified, and for all the financial leases to be defined, specified and specified, we believe, and we remain, in Article 2, that this section should be thrown out in brackets, where it says - in the following text: the lease agreement, and that Article 6 continues in the text of the law everywhere in front of the wording should use the term financial term. Also, we believe that in the position of the 2nd member, this section should be linked to the option of purchase or extension of the contract reshaping so that it is readable - the way and the conditions under which the recipient of the lease can buy the object of the lease or extend the lease. The fact is that this is a significant law and I think it should be precise this way, because, as I said in principle in the debate, on the basis of this law through the financial lease business, many who have illegally and illegally come to money will try to fertilize their capital. Minister, you should have taken the magazine "The Great Serbia" that I gave you in the hallway and read everything about the company "Energy Financing Team", which will certainly do what it has been doing in the financial lease business so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29484	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29485	This amendment brings us back to Article 2. The bill, and you're explaining the reason why you refuse this amendment, you're saying that in the next text, instead of the term, you're going to use financial licking -- licking. So it's just that licking thing. You're saying that in point 2) of Article 2. The proposal for a law specified that a term - a lease agreement - would be used for a financial lease contract in the text of the law. I remind you that above Article 2 stands the business of financial lysing. You say that the business of the financial lease, within the meaning of this law, is a business in which the leaser: 1) with the delivery of the lising object set by the leaser concludes the contract on the basis of which he acquires the right of ownership on the subject of the lising, according to the specification of the leaser and under conditions which, if applicable to the interests of the leaser, the recipient (hereinafter referred to as the delivery contract). If it's a delivery contract, then it's not all a financial lease agreement together. You wrote this unfortunately. If there's only one left, then it's a delivery contract. If we're looking at a separate point 2), then it's a lease contract. Without each other, he can't make a deal on financial leases, that kind of legal work. He can't. It's all one legal job that requires two contracts. So termologically, it has to stand everywhere -- a financial lease deal, or there's gonna be some acting out of it. I think the amendment is really in place, not to touch much essentially, but I'm fixing the text of the law. This option of buying or extending the contract should be replaced by the words "the way and conditions under which a leaser can buy the object of a lease or extend the contract". So, only the law has to ensure what kind of way it will be, under which conditions you can buy the object of the lease or extend the contract, and there's no option of buying or extending the contract. The option is, you go abroad, so you come from abroad, so you tell us in two or three sentences, we already know by heart when you're talking to us, you say -- the World Bank will grant us an 80m-euro loan for this and that. There are two or three sentences. That's our termology. You as a professor of university need to make that termology richer, to make it more interesting and picturesque. Don't keep saying the same thing, because, believe me, the way we see you on TV, we get measles, because we're afraid of all the credit we're getting, since we know how they're being spent, so we're wondering how and who's going to get them back. We can see now that we can't return them. Here, Djelic says - can't, blocked our budget account, and we can't even pay the interest. Look, you know how much and today we're complaining about those loans Tito left us, we're still paying off, so even now you guys are this big of a loan, and I know these are all titoists around you, maybe even together with you. But enough of that, we need to go the other way and only be in debt as much as we can get back. Now we're going to give resources under concessions, huge resources, our economy is destroyed, and I don't know how we're going to get those loans back.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29486	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29487	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia, in Article 6(3), wanted to correct the text because for the text that reads - the Lising Treaty must be concluded in writing, we felt it was a grammatical error and that it should instead - in writing, stand - in writing. However, in response to the Government's reply, the amendment is not accepted, given that the bill follows essential solutions, form and spirit of the Law on Liabilities, as our undeniable best codifications in this area of law, where the term - written form is used, which is also the case with other laws in the matter of contract law. The next way we can get this answer, but it's a bit of a coincidence with the decision and the explanation that this law is a lex specialis and that in some ways its forms should be an expression in the form of other laws. One thing that concerns here is that 67 amendments have been tabled by MPs of the National Assembly, and none has been accepted, and I suggest to Mr. Minister that he still consider the amendments and that some amendments be accepted. I think some ministers have accepted much more amendments here, and I don't think any of them ever happened to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29488	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Joca Arsic. Is there a report? Here's a word from MP Jovan Todorovic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29489	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I confess that this amendment is in the essence of the Financial Lising Act, which is essentially the concept proposed by the Government. We have proposed, with this amendment, that, apart from the lender and the recipient of the lease, the signator of the contract be also the supplier of the subject matter of the lease. The government has rejected the amendment, believing that the better solution we now have in this concept, which means that two contracts are concluded: one between the leaser and the leaser and the second contract between the leaser and the leaser. There are at least two shops, at least two written contracts and, to me, little legal certainty for a leaser. Why do I say that? First of all, we had in mind a member of the 14th and a member of the 16th. It's a bill of law. Article 14 states that the leaser must order the delivery equipment according to the recipient's specification. Article 16 states that the supplier of the lising subject is responsible for material disadvantages, unless otherwise agreed. You now have, in my opinion, several possible problems in the application of this law. First of all, you have the possibility that a leaser and I don't know who the equipment manufacturer is, I deliberately potentiate the word - the manufacturer, because by the rule, not always, but the manufacturer is also in the status of the supplier of the equipment, which doesn't have to be the case. You see now, if a manufacturer and a supplier of equipment contracted with a leaser there and that equipment for a known recipient or according to the recipient's specification, the thing could be clear. Where that is not the case, when the recipient of the lease essentially doesn't even formally know who the manufacturer is, or the supplier, then we have a problem with who in the given situation when there is no mutual contractual obligation between the recipient and the supplier to account for any material deficiencies in the lising case that has reached the losin recipient. It seems a little complicated matter, and then we tried to suggest, and the government didn't accept it because it's getting into the concept, that the signatories of the contract are three sides -- the leaser, the leaser and the delivery guy, and that they're taking each other's contracts and relationships where there won't be this kind of misunderstanding, especially with the danger that they're going to harm the leaser. Think of yourself as the recipient of the lising of some equipment, and I bear in mind that no amendment has been accepted saying that both technology, license, knowledge, etc. can be the object of the lising, imagine the recipient who has received some equipment, does not know at the start of who the manufacturer is, the equipment satisfied it according to the references shown by the leaser, it also uses it during use to determine the material defects. He can now chase a leaser to remove these material defects, but you also have these situations. The equipment is worth 1m euros, and the leaser has the founding capital of 100,000 euros. How it will exercise its right, i.e. to avoid this material shortage, to be compensated if there is a shortage of even 200 or 300,000 euros when viewed in that technical, operational sense and what are the consequences. Therefore, these were the reasons for the SPS to propose this amendment. I don't think it would be excessive for that financial lease agreement to be signed between the other and the leaser, that is, the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29490	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29491	The essence of the SRS amendment is that in the so-called lease, the contract between the recipient and the leaser is respected, unlike the government that insists that there be, in any case, one of the most important elements of depreciation. In an explanation of the government she gave for not accepting the SRS amendment, it is not clear to define what the government wanted with this response. But what stems from Minister Pitic's argument, it is always respecting market freedom and freedom, in a way, agreements or contracts between suppliers and users. If we introduce this category of depreciation, of course, that category exists and it is everywhere present, it is different and defined in different ways in the world and Europe, we have this depreciation that could be the subject of abuse. We know that counting depreciation reduces the total value of the machine or equipment, in this particular case, and we also know from not so long ago that the machines that have been purchased to pave Serbia (it has now been discovered in some magical way, I guess thanks to this action "Sabela" or what is called) are imported on the basis of forged documentation. Namely, what's the point? In order to explain this amendment to the SRS, it is precisely in the part where real depreciation is calculated, thanks to falsified documentation, something which is at the expense of the state, and for the benefit of the importer, which is the respected socially beneficial Mr. Chume, as explained by DOS authorities. Now let's leave the plague and what you're doing. We want this amendment to prevent manipulations that can happen. What's this about? I suppose, from all these arguments and the law itself, that the primary objective of the bill promoter is to protect the donor and, in some ways, the recipient. Let's see what reality is when equipment is supplied abroad. For an additional few thousand euros, it can simply be forged documentation on the year of production, on the year of use of the equipment. All of this can be done for an additional few thousand euros. This Europe is not how you want to present it to us, with Europe earlier, we have experience earlier. So, on the basis of such documentation, it would be the basis for signing the contract and the basis for calculating depreciation when it comes to this fee or licking fee, as you say briefly. In fact, we allow, allow, open space, using an amortisation that is accountingly, as some of our colleagues have noticed, leads us differently. In order to clarify those who are not sufficiently verifiable - when taking some real value, which is now present in privatisation, some object or some equipment, is calculated years of use, depreciation. The bookkeeping facility is unscathed; it is worth several hundred or million euros in real terms, but accountingly worth one euro or nothing, so we would get into an awkward situation if we were to insist on this category, although we Serbian radicals, for the best purposes, suggest that there be improvement. I told this speaker that this bill as an idea is not bad, but we insist that the financial lease agreement must contain provisions on the criteria and criteria on the basis of which the leaser's fee is determined to pay the leaser to hold and use the object of the lising. So the licking fee is the fee agreed by the contract or by the confirmation of the donor or the leaser, not the introduction of a category...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29492	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29493	Mr. Minister, you've prescribed the content and form of the lease agreement. Among other things, you stated that the obligation to have a lease agreement is to have a regulated amount of remuneration paid by the recipient of the lease. According to us, that was quite enough. Everything else should be the subject of the contractor. Then you return to that licking fee with a new member and, in my view, this provision is not even a binding character, because there is a term "primary". It means, "The remuneration paid by the leaser to use the lising object is primarily determined on the basis of the depreciation of the overall or the most important part of the value of the losing object." So he can do it another way. Then why does this even exist? This is a legal job that has a contractual relationship for the foundation. That's what we agreed on, I think. Where's the motivation for a leaser here? I guess he needs something to earn. That's the only reason he gives financial licking. It is in this way that it places its free capital, because it has got some favourable credit, invests in something, but he expects from that licking fee a profit, not only what is the value of depreciation. That's why we've submitted the amendment, if this concept of yours remains that we're even involved in it, even though it's regulated to the 6th, to determine how there's a licking fee, what it represents, is that, unlike you, we offer a solution that doesn't prejudge anything, that leaves everything to the contractors. Mr. Minister, I have to tell you, when I was a minister, I defended a law, no one whispered anything to me, but it's because I wrote the law myself, I didn't translate it, but literally I did, and I could defend it myself, and none of my associates were sitting next to me. Therefore, trust in what you know, do not listen to what you hear on the side of your whispers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29494	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rajko Baralic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Committee on Finance and the Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29495	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, or Madam, we also wanted to make certain things more precise by modifying Article 7. Because of the other colleagues, let me read what we suggested. In Article 7, the addition is done by finally deleting the point and entering the following words: "calculating according to the method of time depreciation". As the basis for calculating the amount of the leaser's fee to be paid by the leaser for the use of the equipment, i.e. the subject of the lease, this article is intended to be primarily based on the depreciation calculation. We're giving this time type of depreciation advantage over functional, because we think it's more appropriate for the conditions in which it exists in our economic environment. I think Mr. Secretary could accept this argument and this amendment for a number of reasons. The method of calculating depreciation is important in relation to whether it is the cost for the person using the licking, whether and how it is provided in relation to the leaser. I believe that, like some of the other amendments that counterparts Joca Todorovic and some other MPs have submitted to this law, this amendment would improve the proposed law or, ultimately, allow the users of the lising, which are primarily our businesses and our citizens, that in one better way and the way that is closer to them when it comes to depreciation, function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29496	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) At the title above the members and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 9. The draft Financial Lising Act mainly applies in the largest and most significant part to terminology in the part of Chapter II and Article 9. It's a bill of law. In the draft law, the title of Chapter II reads: "Subjects in the business of financial lysing". The amendment I tabled on the bill suggests changing the title of Chapter II by saying, "Participators in the financial lease business". Next, the name of Article 9. The bill should be amended. The bill says "Determination of Subjects", and according to the amendment, it should be "Determining Participants". It's not just a question of changing "entities" to "participators" but of changing the word "determination" to "determination". The definition is an inappropriate name, because it is a process that lasts. In each business, financial leases are constantly determined by entities, i.e., according to the amendment, participants in the financial lease and the process lasts as long as the law. Every law is passed indefinitely, and hence, the terminology and all that is related to this article lasts as long as the law. It's a process where participants in the legal work are constantly determined, and a leaser, and a delivery agent, and a leaser. It is more appropriate and more appropriate to apply the word "determination", and instead of "entities" it should stand for "determining participants". With the amendment, we propose that in Article 9 the "financial lysing business entities" be replaced by the words "participators in the financial lease". It is more appropriate to place the words "participators", given that there is an application of the bond law, and the bonds law knows the parties, or foreign parties, and participants in a particular legal transaction. In the view of the government that you delivered to parliamentarians, it says that this amendment of the Serbian Radical Party is not accepted for essential and formal reasons, so you stated that for fundamental reasons it cannot be established, if the word "participators" is accepted, which is the case for the participants in the legal business. Article 9. The bill clearly states which participants are involved. It's a leaser, a leaser and a delivery agent, so it's more specific and specific in legal terminology, more adequate, the term "participator" than "entity". You stated that, from the point of view of the form, Roman law knows not the participants, but the subjects. The entity is bound to status law. When determining any status in the state, in the social community, it is more appropriate to consider and accept the word "entity", while "participators" are more related to concrete legal work and to the holder of certain rights and duties, and obligations. It is therefore appropriate to accept this amendment, which is more appropriate, not only in terms, but in essence. The term "entities" is more about ZUR and Cardell's right, where entities are accepted, no matter what it is, whether it's a specific legal business or whether it's a status-holder or some other right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29498	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29499	You, Mr. Minister, or the one who wrote an explanation for refusing this amendment, made a little joke with us. I don't mind. And I'll make fun of you the same way, because you told us that the term "participator" could mean a participant in a sports contest. I'll remind you of Article 28, where in Section 6, you say, "In the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article, a leaser may hold a contract if he gives appropriate security." What's that? Physically? "The means of payment security" -- that's how it was supposed to be in article 28. So if we want to joke, we can do that. Here was the intention to use the terms to be used. A few minutes ago, you commented on an amendment to "the entity of law" and "the participant". The entity of law is one thing, the participant of legal work is something else. The "right entity" is used in terms of whether it's a natural person, a legal person, a society of capital or something, but when it comes to contractual relations, it's "participators". The amendment was given with that intention. In addition, in your explanation, you say that the participants of this job can be considered a wide range of faces, starting with the parties, means that the participants of the legal work in the lease agreement and delivery contracts, via forwarders, carriers, warehouses, agents and the like. The leaser doesn't have any contractual relationship with these people, or if he's taken over himself, in that basic lease agreement, that he's going to carry equipment on his own or something like that. It remains as an obligation of only one of the participants of the legal work, or the lender of the lising, or the recipient of the lising, but they are all together, from this freighter, to the courier, as you say here in an explanation for the refusal of the amendment, are not in the legal business of the financial lease contract. I think we're absolutely right. This is about improving the law, so as you decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29500	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29501	The explanation given by the Government during my amendment's refusal is an obvious attempt to undermine the legal knowledge of the applicant for the amendment. It will be difficult for you to succeed, given that I am a member of the Serbian Radical Party legal expert group and, believe me, there are no equal in the country. We've reported in many court proceedings at all levels. Until yesterday, we were only fighting the courts, and yesterday the Serbian government joined the fight, which protected Nebojsa Covic in the case where he was sued. (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. And he's allowed to sue. I'm talking, Mrs. Micic, about the legal knowledge of the one who wrote this amendment. Speaking of education, power in legal terminology implies both law and obligation. Mr. Minister, in that sense, it was also the first part of this amendment, truly well-intentioned, that this law, when you adopt it, resembles law and law in the spirit of our legal order. How do you think, Mr. Minister, that someone who meets the conditions, or legal person from abroad, who wants to conclude a financial lease contract -- and he opened the company, met the condition for opening a company in his country, where maybe the capital of 80,000 euros might have been the condition, so he shows up here with the intention to conclude a financial lease contract with a leaser in Serbia -- you or someone else say that you can't do that, because your founding capital of 100,000 euros as we predicted, but 80,000 euros as scheduled in your country. I think it's really pointless. We have no right or opportunity to suggest our legal and legal assumptions to someone else. The situation is reversed -- you prescribe laws from Europe, and I don't believe that from Europe they will prescribe our laws, if for no other reason because of the bad translation, what I was talking about yesterday, because this bill (not to enter into its essence) has countless legal illogicalities, and in this direction are amendments of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29502	Thank you, is anyone else applying for a word? The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29503	Article 10 regulates what a losiner is, who can be a losin. My colleague well explained this need for termological changes in attitude 1, but there is a need for attitude 3, which we insist on, which would prescribe conditions that a leaser must meet if he is a domestic person. That's all we can do. And when it comes to a foreign face as a leaser, we not only can't but we don't even have instruments, we're not own. Why should we make a selection? The domestic legislation of all these potential leasers determine who can do so under what conditions, under which conditions they can deal with financial intermediation, and in this context by financial lease. So, Article 2, if after the word "Lising Giver" had the inserted words "--a foreign person within the meaning of the law is also a company that performs the business of a financial lysing in accordance with the rules of the state in which the minimum part of the underlying capital is established, it could survive, and item 3 should read as follows: "Lizing giver - a domestic person, within the meaning of this law is a company of capital registered with us, for the activities of the financial lease and has a minimum share of capital of 100,000 euros". So, this minimally paid share of the base capital of 100,000 euros cannot possibly refer to a foreign person who would potentially be a leaser, because I don't see the instrument that we're going to influence and why, if we want to look at it from the target point of view, we want to discriminate on them. Sometimes it's not necessary, it's not so much the value of all the equipment that's given on the slide, so there's no need to force them to have this kind of security.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29504	He has the word of Minister Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29505	I see we've entered the joke zone, which is not bad, and if it's about the law, it'd be even better if it was directed towards improvement and how much we know about the law. As far as the remarks are concerned, I have to admit that we've been looking for a way to avoid discrimination between foreign and domestic legal persons, and in this context, it's a little controversial that we're talking on the one hand about who's gonna be a losin user, we say it's going to be foreign faces, and then we're making discrimination and we say that they come into a position that they can be leasers. There's inconsistency here. To end up being consistent, even foreign persons who do not have a founding capital of 100,000 euros, but less than that, can normally be leasers, but not under this law. So, in order not to be discriminated against by domestic legal entities, we have introduced this provision saying that even a foreign person, founded by a company, can operate in a financial business part within the meaning of this law, if there is more than 100,000 euros in founding capital, but we do not prohibit their business outside the meaning of this law. Secondly, the reason for all of this is very simple. It is about determining the experiences of other countries, I am talking about determining the amount of 100,000 euros, because the amendments included interpretations of it being 10,000 or 500,000, or different to equipment, etc. It is true that this is a kind of arbitration that is estimated to be a minimum, based on experience from countries where we use licking, based on some business practice, that there will be no bypassing and setting up many companies on some Cayman islands, etc., with one dollar or one euro as founding capital and then doing the business of financial leases with us. So it was estimated that 100,000 euros is the minimum amount needed to ensure that these types of activities do not take place. As for Mrs. Pop-Lazic's joke, the joke wasn't sent to me, the joke was sent to the Bond Relations Act. I had no intention of joking with this law, nor were these explanations here directed to joke with any amendment promoter. On the contrary, our call is primarily focused on what rights are, therefore, on the Law on Liabilities, on Roman law, on other elements, such as finally this other member where we said that the amendment to Article 10 does not distinguish the elemental categories of civil law, where the terms "right", "authority", etc. Because three powers are derived from the term of law and these things are not to be confused. I especially thank Mrs. Pop-Lazic for not using that terminology, because I understand from so far communication that she is well aware of it. So this article of the 28th you mentioned was taken from the Bond Relations Act, and that's not a joke. As for writing the law, my principle is to rely on those who have something to contribute, to rely on experiences and Roman rights and everything that can contribute to the basis of civil values. I'm trying not to be the one who's gonna be independent, because I'm not a lawyer, but I'm also the one who got into the economic logic of this law and tried to get into legal terminology for a reason that I could defend this law. I know it's a very difficult job, I know you've spent a lot of time on it; I haven't had a chance to look at that law; I believe, given your competence, that you've worked in the spirit of the best knowledge you have, but, believe me, in these regulations, it's necessary to rely on those who can contribute not to such amendments that do not distinguish certain elements of civil law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29506	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Rajko Baralic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29507	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, speaking of the Cayman Islands, they are now more relevant to the Virgin. There are various companies in different contexts. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, with MP Jovan Todorovic, I have tabled an amendment relating to Chapter II, financial lysing entities, Article 10(2) to delete. We find it unnecessary to limit foreign companies, because it complicates the procedure for negotiating leases. Also, the minimally paid initial share of the capital capital over 100,000 euros. He writes the euro here, and I thank the MP, as you say, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Even the archaic language in Serbia was never spoken by Europe, it was Europe, it was Europe, so if someone does not say the euro, then let the Jew say it, and the euro cannot. I'm sorry about this dyspression. We suggest that this attitude be deleted we think that this way Article 10 is more accessible to all users and leasers. I also want to express my disagreement with the fact that Serbian citizens, potential users and leasers, are not in a position to follow what we say, to follow what you say, and in the end I think it is most important, for this speaker on this and other legal projects. It is impossible in a complete way to ensure that citizens of Serbia are informed of what is happening in parliament if there are no direct television transmissions. It has been denied by the government to promote legal projects, thus deprived Serbian citizens who also had no opportunity to inform themselves about what the government is and what we are talking about here about construction laws, information, financial leases, concessions, other laws. That doesn't serve the honor of the so-called. a young democracy. Do whatever it takes to get the camera back into this assembly and get Serbian citizens to hear and see who stands for what they stand for here. Otherwise, we'll think you're scared of us, and maybe you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29508	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29509	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to give a few additional arguments in favour of the amendments submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia to delete Article 2. Therefore, there is no restriction on the founding capital of firms engaged in the giving of lising items to a leaser, i.e. financial lease business. First, it is not entirely clear who this provision applies to. Whether on the side of the face only, whether on the home and on the side. It's said here, according to the laws of the country from which the leaser is from. The country from which the leaser can be the country of Serbia, or the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and can be interpreted as referring to the 100,000-euro provision as well as domestic legal and natural persons dealing with financial lysing activities. Secondly, why should we even enter into the problem of the founding capital of these companies if all others, for us as leasers relevant, conditions meet this leaser. As far as the founding capital is concerned, if the equipment is delivered to us, if we have a valid contract, if we have a contract registered with a competent organisation and if that contract is realised. Third, the subject of the lising can be assets that are significantly less valuable than the 100,000 euros. The point of this law, at least I understand that, is that a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises are placed in a position to reach the appropriate equipment without their own capital. The value of equipment can be 10,000 euros, 5,000 euros, 50,000 euros. You have, for example, a partner abroad who has founding capital of 99,000 euros, does not meet the requirements of 100,000 euros and can provide you with adequate equipment, meets all other conditions, you agreed, but business falls because there is no evidence that his founding capital is at least 100,000 euros. So that's something that can happen in practice. The next thing I think it's important - the responsibility of the leaser is not what his capital is, but whether he's carrying out his obligations. He has responsibility only, in law it is said, for legal shortcomings. If a third party lays a right to a lising class without trying to inform the lysing recipient about it. That could be called a fraud in our language. This is another story, and for material disadvantages, which are generally more serious, is not only responsible for the leaser but, in accordance with Article 16 of this Law, the delivery servicer. That's why I don't think it's good to bid. Is it 100,000 euros, whether 50,000 euros, what experiences are in parallel rights. It is stated, among other things, that by Article 18. The law on financial organisations to have a bank in our country today must have a founding capital of 10m euros. The question is, is that a good thing? Why couldn't banks function with a million, two, three or five million euros on the domestic financial market? We know that we have a problem with financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we know that these companies are not, as a rule, users of high loans that cross some million and I don't know what they are and there's nothing wrong with having such banks, or companies that deal with financial leases without restrictions on capital. We need to understand that we also have a problem with communication with abroad, that it is very difficult to find a suitable partner who has all of this, so that we can now cover ourselves with a 40-degree rubber. There is also a normal atmosphere in which a leaser must accept himself and part of the risk that arises from this job, but this law should arrange an environment in which these small or medium-sized companies from abroad will be interested to deliver our equipment, technology and much of what we need at this point to start these small capacities. So that's the essence of the amendment that we have submitted and we think it's reasonable to delete that provision and simply put in the same position all those who can do it in a quality way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29510	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, nor has the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29511	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, New Serbia wanted to fix the text of the law, so it suggests that Article 10 of the text in paragraph 2 be changed. I'll read the original text. The text of Article 10(2) reads: "The leaser within the meaning of this law is a company carrying out financial lease operations in accordance with the rules of the state in which the minimum part of the underlying capital is established and whose minimum payment is 100,000 euros", and is due to write the euro. We propose that this text be changed and that it is said - the leaser within the meaning of this law is a company that performs financial lease operations whose minimum paid share of the underlying capital is (and then we have made a selection): a) for home appliances, televisions and white technology 50,000 euros, b) for machinery in agriculture 100,000 euros, c) for vehicles 100,000 euros, g) for equipment 150,000 euros and d) for plants 200,000 euros. We believe that the paid share of the underlying capital should be in the function of the value of the lising object. It cannot be the same amount of payment for companies carrying out financial leases for households and equipment for industrial plants. Also, our position gives us a wider possibility of licking companies to register according to their capabilities, i.e. according to the level of capital they have at their disposal. This is how we tied our hands to some companies that don't have the basic capital for a larger amount, so they wouldn't be able to do financial leases for less value. I expect the minister to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29512	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that amanadman is legally possible. Here's a word from Parliament MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29513	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the position of the 2nd member of the 10th was here on the target of all the parliamentary groups, because much is said by the situation itself in this country. Someone mentioned earlier that it might be a limiting factor in the interest of foreign leasers in terms of this law with a figure of 100,000 euros. We know well what our current situation is, both political and economic and financial. Maybe that's one of the things that's gonna make the interest of a losin giver from abroad less. That's exactly what we're afraid of. We have suggested that the amount be reduced to 50,000 euros, although all other proposals make sense. Although practice in other countries around the leaser suggests that the founding capital of these leased companies must be much higher, we suggest that the situation should be reduced from 100,000 euros to 50,000 euros. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29514	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29515	Amendment holder Mr Dragoljub Stamenkovic is on the Committee on Culture and Information and for this reason is unable to explain the amendment, but here I will, on behalf of the parliamentary group, try to convince the promoter that the amendment is meaningful and that there are no reasons for refusing the amendments. Article 11 speaks of the lease recipient and, by the proposal, the recipient of the lising within the meaning of this law is a legal or natural person to whom the leaser transfers the authority to hold and use the subject of the lising, at the agreed time and with the agreed fee. Well, let's continue the debate we started. It's been a long time of persuasion, but this term -- the authority of holding, should be corrected by us and the right to hold. The right is a broader concept and contains different powers in itself, depending on what kind of contract it is, whether it is a purchase agreement, on lease, on lease. The leaser has the right to hold the thing and use it, and the leaser has the right to dispose as the owner of the lising object, but it is also limited, because if he has given it to the lease for a specified time, as you say on a given deadline, so may the time limit, he cannot have a different time with it, but only when that time has passed, unless there has been a purchase, if the licking is not finished so, can he continue to have the subject at his disposal. If the recipient of the lising is half-iron, and we see from the spirit of the law that it is excluded from the bankruptcy mass, he no longer has the ability to give it back into the lysing, given this law. He can rent that equipment or sell it, partly amortized, as used, or continue to be a coffer. When a leaser enters into a contractual relationship with a leaser, he buys exactly certain goods according to the specifications of the client. It's hard to find someone else after that who'll want exactly the same kind of product in all the specifications. I didn't want to rephrase it to you earlier, given that there are a lot of amendments and that I would have the opportunity to go out for a pay phone. As for the security term, which is in Article 28, let's make fun of it again, if it's a joke, but it's not a joke, but your explanations are sometimes a joke -- a stick can be a means of security, for example, a means of paying, say, a bill. I didn't learn any differently, and neither did you, I guarantee. That's why it has to stand - an appropriate means of payment security. It can't stand - adequate security. It has to be defined as it is. When you explained to us the reasons for refusing this amendment, you were referring to an explanation already given in article 10 and about which we had already sexed. It has been said, among other things, that the state is not the right, but the practical power over things and the assumption is to use things. That's one right. The right to use things. So it's not as professional as it might seem at first sight. They're not amendments, really, mean. We have great experience, as far as legal norms are concerned. However, at the Belgrade University of Law School, the case should be introduced, legal norms are very important if we want to have a recognizable legal order. We have tried to cultivate it and to do so far all with this goal to cultivate a terminology that is both property and Roman law and is fundamental to our right. I don't think that's what we're wandering about. You're not entirely consistent with the norm of the law. We have different terms from one another, and even within one law, we want to explain one thing in different terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29516	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Ljubomir Mucic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, I think that the amendments that we have submitted, as well as the discussions that were conducted both yesterday and today, and at committee meetings, have contributed to some of the things about this law being revealed. And this amendment, submitted by my colleague Todorovic and I on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, is related to Article 2 and some later members. We have predicted that the main intensity of this law should be to allow the recipient of the lising to obtain funds and equipment, although it does not have its initial capital. In Article 11, which regulates what is and who is the recipient of the lising, we, in addition to those provisions, have provided that the recipient of the lease also has the possibility to cross-reference the right to purchase a lising object at a price corresponding to the residual value of the lising object after the settlement of all contractual obligations. I think a third party can become much easier to own this property and the equipment that the leaser ordered than a leaser can. Also, Article 33 is explicit and imperative, although we did not predict the imperative here, and Article 33 says, "The recipient of the lease is obliged to return, at the end of the contract, the intact object of the lising along with the attachments, to the lender or the person designated by the leaser, unless the contract provides for the right of the leaser to buy the object of the lease or extend the lease contract." Why do I, as a leaser, have no right after the end of the contract to extend the contract, but I only have the right if the previous contract provides and why do I not have the right to continue using these funds? Practically, me and my colleague Todorovic planted three acres of plum. My program is to make dry plums and export to the Russian market, I address you as a minister or a leaser, and you allow me to buy equipment and funds 500,000 euros, and my colleague Todorovic has a line for the production of jams, jams, plum sweets, etc. - 300,000 euros. When three years pass, we settle our obligations, you say - Mr. Mucic, excuse me, but I can and do not have to extend the lease agreement with you, you are required after the end of the contract to hand over the equipment to Mr. Joce Todorovic's firm. I think we need to protect the leaser from that, in some way, that he has security, given that this law protects the leaser, the supplier of equipment or a third party, in relation to the leaser who ordered the equipment. A lot of reasons for controversy can be here and that's why I think we need to protect the leaser because of what he's doing, and the leaser, considering that, regardless of what part of the funds he's about to report later. The companies where I own will appear, have to fire the workers, have to destroy for now, sell out what they own, and the other company will thus, through rounding the production cycle, be favored and continued production. I hope that counterpart Todorovic will continue this story, because the time is running out for an explanation of this amendment. I think our goal as an SPS MP is to enable, in this more declarative than imperative law, a real inflow of foreign capital and the application of foreign technologies in domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29518	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29519	We must also explain to the Assembly why we have proposed such an amendment. It could be said that now in Article 33, something is written on the subject, so it says Article 42, and we actually wanted to specify the right of the recipient of the lease to have, after the end of the contract and after the orderly settlement of all obligations to the leaser, the right to intercept the purchase. I think there's a lot of logic in that, because whoever settled all the obligations neatly based on the compensation for the equipment received under the financial lease, de facto paid off that equipment. The experience of the operating lysing is that the price at which the asset that was in the lease could definitely be purchased was in fact merely symbolically determined, sometimes in the amount of 100 marks, and now would be the amount of 100 euros, no matter how much it was the value of the object of the lysing used during the previous period. Just for these reasons, because whoever used that equipment actually bought that equipment this way. Article 42 says he can buy, and we say he has a right that a leaser can't deny him, because that he can be an option and he who has the equipment as a leaser can say no, I don't want to sell it to you. In this it can be economic logic, because it has a greater interest in giving the same equipment to someone else, under similar or somewhat unfavourable conditions, also at a certain time, under these provisions of the law. Then there's the injustice -- I paid 99.9%, and the leaser denied me the right for some reasons, especially the economic ones, I bought it. Because there is no equipment that will be 100% amortised during the duration of the financial lease arrangement, regardless of how depreciation is calculated, whether it's time or functional. Simply, every asset that is in some proper state, after the end of this arrangement will certainly have a much greater value than the one that remains as the price at which we suggest that a definitive purchase of that equipment be made. I think the acceptance of this amendment would be good, would protect the trustee, or the recipient of the lising, and not, Mr. Minister, would disrupt the concept of the law, would not. So, like when a neighbor sells the field, you as his neighbor or neighbor have in some way the right to stop buying, because he's obliged to offer you too much in that field, so if you don't want to buy it, then someone else can buy it. So, it won't, I'm saying -- I'm not going to buy it, it doesn't have to buy this object, either, but we have to have that right that whoever gave me that object for use can't deny, that's the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29520	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 12 by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, obviously in Serbia there are double morals and double arches. I was just inspired by Rajko Baralic's speech, an SPS MP who requested a transfer to the Assembly. Why doesn't he ask his colleague, DSS MP Peru Cvetkovic, why there's no transmission to SO Leskovac? You know, local self-government pays Leskovac TV. Yesterday, the head of the DSS parliamentary group, Dejan Mihajlov, is about to cry, and the director of Leskovac TV is from the DSS. Pera Cvetkovic is an MP in this house, he is from the DSS, so I ask you, please, who are the double archeologists; this is New Serbia MP Mr. Stamenkovic, his committee also voted against the transfer to SO Leskovac. Two Stamenkovics and two Cvetkovics.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29522	National MP, or transfer to the municipality of Leskovac, to contact the Financial Lising Act or return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29523	You felt exactly that I should call your MP from the Democratic Party, Mr. Jacob Stamenkovic, and you broke up. DOS committees, since the opposition is in Leskovac, vote for...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29524	People's MP, you have been warned after the first minute that is meant as a free argument. This is a warning now. Please, about the financial lease.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29525	You're very kind. I've just finished my presentation and I can move on to the amendment. Article 12 defines that the supplier of the subject matter of the lising, within the meaning of this law, is a legal or natural person who transfers the property to the lender on the subject of the lising, for the purpose of his surrender to the recipient of the lising for holding and use, at the agreed time and with the agreed fee. All in all, the amendment of the SRS is exactly a alignment with Article 2. Apparently, the minister has in front of him what is a financial lease business and he knows exactly what is done in Article 2. The purpose of the SRS is to intervene this amendment on the bill, by ousting from the definition and concept of the supplier everything that is unnecessary and which does not mean anything. The SRS amendment was defined to add the words "on the basis of the delivery contract" after the word "which." In this way, exactly what the biller wanted to say is defined; and the words "for the sake of his surrender to the leaser to hold and use for the agreed time and with the agreed fee" are deleted. So obviously this amendment is quite meaningful, although in the government's explanation it does not accept this amendment as follows: "The amendment is not accepted since its content does not apply to Article 13. The bill of law." There's a government official right, but in a letter dated 12 May 2003, under the number 400971/03, there's an exact correction that instead of "in Article 13." It should stand for "Article 12", because the amendment essentially refers to Article 12, so the reasons for the minister are absolutely not standing, because it is defined and it is known that the full explanation refers precisely to Article 12. I would ask the minister, since he understood the correction, I assume his charming colleague and explain that he refers to Article 12, and since the government's argument no longer stands, to accept at least one amendment. I'll remind him that his last bill has not been passed, that it's a major blow to the person who runs the ministry. In order for the same experience not to happen again, let it be handled by the arguments of the SRS and may support amendments that are meaningful and highly constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29526	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29527	Article 12, which prescribes who is the deliveryer of the object of the lising and how he transfers property rights to the subject of the lising, has made one mistake, because if after these words, "Lising subject delivery within the meaning of this law is a legal or natural person who, on the basis of a delivery contract", if we provide it there as necessary, "to the leaser transfers property rights to the subject of the lising" we would absolutely satisfy all obligations of the delivery of the object of the lising, because what, after all, concerns the equipment manufacturer why this buys the equipment. I don't understand what the purpose of this form of Article 12 was, because the one who sells the equipment doesn't care at all what the reason for the purchase of the equipment is. I can buy something and destroy it right away, I can rent it, I can use it, I can not use it, I can sell it. It's my right to dispose of property rights. Without the right to dispose, there's no right to property, and all the while we're saying that the leaser owns things. So that's his thing -- he lays down the right of property, he can have whatever he wants, and we don't have to involve the supplier here at all as someone who needs to be interested in what happens next with his equipment or the object of the losin. The question is, what if the delivery contract doesn't exist, is there a legal job called licking? So there's no delivery contract, everything's regulated by the purchase contract, the leaser bought some equipment, and then he decided that he's in the licking, because that fits someone who wants to buy that equipment. It's a situation we haven't regulated here. I'll just ask the question, and I don't have the answers. So this situation can happen. Can the losiner again put in the licking equipment that was already subject to the lysing, so for any reason he as the owner came back into possession of that equipment? Could second-hand equipment be the object of the lising? That's what we don't see from this law. You got it. Then the supplier of the equipment doesn't have it in that sense, as a manufacturer. Then it's the one who's giving the lising. That's why this member is so much better the way we formulated him than the way you suggested. Maybe we don't understand each other. Anyway, I got answers to these questions. It's all this and as far as possible. I'm afraid we'll be a dump in old technology here. Who knows what the purpose of this law is. In fact, those fears that the law is also proposed to the World Bank's insistence that it employs its free capital by allowing foreigners to fertilize their capital in the best possible way, and we in such conditions as we find it difficult to buy some very modern technology. Who knows what we're going to buy and what we're going to bring to the country, but that's the situation we are, which we've been unhappyly brought into because of the whole policy that's been going towards this country for years, from which we can't get away and now we're dealing with these consequences. It seems that for many years we will suffer these consequences, and they can be multiplely harmful, and by economy, by health, and who knows what else. I think the amendment is really acceptable. You may not have been ready to accept it, for it was wrongly addressed to Article 13, so you did not engage in its contents. Therefore, it was rejected only because it did not apply to Article 13. The correction came later and you had no opportunity to make a statement about it, but now you have time to think about it a little bit, so when you vote that, eventually, this amendment, which was given in order to improve the text of the law, is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29528	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Government and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29529	Mrs. Comic, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, has submitted an amendment to the 15th parliamentary club of the Serbian Unity Party. Paragraph 2 states: "The recipient of the lease and the court responsible for carrying out the bankruptcy proceedings shall be obliged to notify the leaser without delay of the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure", and we say, "and no later than 24 hours". It says, "No delays", and this is just one clarification to this attitude, because we know very well how to conduct bankruptcy proceedings with us. If there are such gaps as are now happening, that bankruptcy proceedings are going on for two, three and five years, it doesn't matter how many, and a foreign investor and a leaser waits for it and informs him in a period that is not suitable for a given situation, we will be left without those people who will face a lot of problems as well, when they come to us to deal with this job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29530	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 16 on which the amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by the MPs: Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukić and joint MPs: Dusan Cvetkovic and Joca Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word, on behalf of the applicant for the amendment, MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29531	Thank you. Article 16 reads: "The delivery service provider shall be responsible for the material disadvantages of the lising object to the leaser, unless otherwise agreed". This: "if otherwise agreed" there's no need to stand. We've just been paying attention to the leaser, and now we're paying attention to the leaser. Why "if it's not otherwise agreed"? Under the circumstances, I have a notice about some of the lysings in Croatia, which were made for ships, and there is a rule of a lot of machination around insurance companies. Deliver, for example, an object with some mistake, which is not shown in that contract; later the insurance company recognises some costs that do not exist in fact and then both sides can come to some material benefit. Anyway, this is about protecting a leaser. This leaves room for some manipulations and we suggest that this part of Article 16 be deleted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29532	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29533	Dear fellow MPs, honourable ministers, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Joca Arsic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 16, with the words "deliverer" to point in Article 16 behind the words, and the words "if otherwise not agreed" should be deleted. In Article 16, in the first part, which regulates liability for material disadvantages on the subject of the lising, it is quite well and argued that the lysing recipient for all of these deficiencies corresponds to the delivery of the object of the lysing. However, another part of that article, which says "if otherwise is not agreed", is legally given the possibility that someone else could be responsible for the material disadvantages of the lising case. We in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group think they should not be created by this law by any dilemma, which is responsible for the material shortages of the subject of the lising. We're looking for this to protect the leaser and speed up the process itself of removing material defects. This so much before most of the cases, the delivery agent of the lising object will be the manufacturer of the case. Of course, here in the front row I mean the equipment. If the second part remains, then the possibility of negotiating liability to a leaser can complicate life. The only effective and safe solution is that the delivery guy responds, and everything else is a serious problem. I could illustrate that with serious examples, since I've been in production for a long time. If you get a licking, say, for a tube charger, either aluminum, plastic, laminate, etc., along with that equipment you get three heads that do all these types of tube filling. On the rotational table there are pliers and tube caps, which bend double, triple, leme, beautiful etc. - The rotational table with so many tubes is dosed, full. You've ordered spare parts, lifts and everything that goes along with it, as objective as it is. At one point, you made serious deals with a foreign delivery company, with department stores somewhere in the west, asking you to deliver the goods, you know that, Mr. Minister, at one o'clock. I've had experience, the truck arrives in Germany, and it has to be in front of the department store for an hour, because it has to show up at 10.00. You're going into production. There is an error or in the material on disks, on pliers, or some failure in the production of tubes, toothpastes, creams, food products, incursion during production some object in the tube and creates a problem; there is a serious fracture. You are able in some ways to intervene only by calling the equipment manufacturer. While the direct relationship between the lease user and the equipment manufacturer is, it's simple. When you're supposed to include a third in that situation, it's a job that's going to take a long time. So I think that this particular one you've put on: "if it's not otherwise agreed" we should delete, because the only certainty is that it's practically negotiated with the equipment supplier because it's not going to change the character of this law; and if the supplier of these parts is some co-op that works for that equipment supplier, it's going to be the fastest thing to do with the delivery guy, not with the leaser. In the explanation you gave, nothing is of particular importance, and it is not a threat to the right of the leaser, nor to the recipient of the lising. To them, all that is faster and more effective will be answered, and it certainly answers only that the deliverer may be the one who is the most responsible. So I think this end of the sentence in Article 16, which can cause problems here, should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29534	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic and MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Finance and the Government did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29535	Dear Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 16 defines responsibility for material disadvantages. Article 16 reads: "The delivery service provider shall be responsible for the material disadvantages of the lising object to the leaser, unless otherwise agreed". The new Serbia believes this should be redesigned, primarily because of article 1 in Article 10. We say, "For the material disadvantages of the lising object, the leaser is responsible for the leaser," not the delivery agent. We believe that in article 16 behind the word "response", instead of the word "deliverer" should be "lising donor". For the material disadvantages of the lising object, the leaser shall be entitled to the leaser, not the delivery agent, because the leaser, according to Article 10(1), has the right to property on the losing object, and therefore he shall bear the responsibility for any material deficiencies. If it wasn't for Article 1st, the formulation would be fine. This is how it's collapsing, according to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29536	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's a word from MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 16 of this Law and suggests that the word "deliverer" is replaced by the words "Lising Giver". The minister himself who explained this law in principle is not for this law, but what he must do as a man of government to give his contribution to the government, even with regard to this set of laws. The method and way of exposure comes down to the system - let us also adopt this group of laws and then what happens. It is visible and transparent in the three-dimensional relationship of this contract concerning this law. This member, whom we Serbian radicals have made remarks, refers to the head - Lising Provider's obligations, and regulates his obligation to obtain the object of the lising, excluding responsibility for material disadvantages. On the basis of the financial lease agreement, the recipient of the lease is in a legal relationship with the leaser and for all shortcomings in the leaser's case should be held accountable by the leaser. In addition, the leaser is only indirectly and under certain conditions in a specific and rare legal relationship with the supplier. Those who do not have a contract cannot even be in a legal relationship. It should not be forgotten that the rightful property bearer is only a leaser. This law is technically not well done and we have therefore submitted a number of amendments in order to at least improve a little and technically edit it. The aim of this law is clear, but the result of this law should be commented with suspicion. The reason for the law? He should attract these famous investors and people who will have legal certainty with this law. How can you talk about the security of the financial lease law when your budget is not safe; and you "guard" it and take care of it, and behold, it is empty. You don't have any more IVs on the side, you feel that in the financial sense and at the local level. How will new investors in Serbia have security in financial leases and this law? Generally, this law is for the benefit of the lysing recipients, and for that we have yet to create conditions. The environment for this law is on a remote stick -- so our people say. Europe wants to get rid of outdated technologies, and we will adopt this technology through the lising, and here we are with old violations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29538	Did anyone else sign up for a word? There's a word from MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29539	I just wanted to remind you of this indiscipline when it comes to Roman law, because you, in your explanation for the refusal of amendments, say that for these reasons it is generally accepted that the business of the financial lease, as a tripartite legal work, constitutes an exception to the rule of inter-partes of the contract. That's what's left of Roman law. So, only those who are in a contractual relationship, and here we don't have a contractual relationship between the supplier and the leaser, are absolutely in no relationship. It happens often, and it happens again, we just confirmed it because you answered my questions -- the delivery man and the leaser will be the same face. Isn't it more logical, then, that for the material defects of the lising object, the lysing-receiving-receiving-receiving-receiving-receiving-receiving-receiving-pricer first and foremost, if otherwise agreed? So it can be different, but what if the delivery guy and the donor are the same face? You're saying this applies to that, too, but logic requires that there be a leaser first of all. (Goran Pitic, from the scene: there is no difference.) You don't think it makes any difference? You just answered my question if the delivery guy and the leaser are the same face, if the second-hand gear can go into the licking, and we said it could, you confirmed it, then it's the same face. That is why the amendment follows what we have left of Roman law, regardless of what the international conventions now conclude exactly those who have, can protect themselves, do not respond for nothing; they, in your opinion, only follow the entire operation financially, acquire property rights, but de facto, as you say, have nothing to do with production, delivery, quality, etc. It's not what should be based on this law, of course, as we conceptually imagine it. Our concept would be quite different if we were able to bring it. We do not think that there should be no financial lease, although this ordinary licking fully meets the needs that exist in our society, even favours equipment manufacturers both in the country and abroad to give equipment to everyone. Today, money is much easier to find than the market. The West has found a hungry market here for a lot of things, so I don't think it's gonna be a problem finding the money. I would ask the chairman, since there are no more than 50 MPs in the O.R., to establish the quorum on the basis of Article 82(2). For two hours since the meeting of the Information Committee began, we have no quorum to work with, and I don't think that's correct by those who run the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29540	I ask the MPs to insert the identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29541	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work today's session in the afternoon. Please, in order to determine the quorum needed to work, insert your cards into the identification units. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue the discussion in detail. The amendment to Article 17 was jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, nor has the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29542	Dear Mrs Comic, honourable MPs, Article 17 defines who is responsible for the damage caused by the object of the lising. We believe that the formulation of Article 17, which is given in the bill, is not good because it is inaccurate, too extensive and is therefore subject to abuse in application. I will read the original text of Article 17 which says: "The leaser does not correspond to the leaser for the damage caused by the lising object, unless the borrower has suffered damage due to his relying on the expertise of the leaser or if the leaser had participation in the selection of the supplier or the specification of the lising object, unless otherwise agreed." We think that this article is really very complicated and we suggest a much simpler text, which is easy to apply. It reads: "The leaser does not correspond to the lising recipient for damage caused by the lising object, if the leaser used the object of the lysing against the instructions of the deliveryer of the object of the lising." We believe that this formulation improves Article 17 of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29543	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 of this bill, where I have proposed that a certain correction be made. It is proposed, in Article 18, that the leaser responds if there is a third party's right to exclude, reduce or restrict an unfettered state-owned leaser whose existence has not been notified or agreed to take the subject of the lising burden on that right. When it comes to this legal business, it must come from the fiction of absolute accuracy. Therefore, the leaser corresponds to the leaser for all defects on the subject and subject, which he gave to the lysing recipient. Therefore, we propose that in Article 18, the "uninterrupted state" is replaced by the words "right to hold and use". The state and the holding aren't the same. There is a safe and unconscious state. In this particular case, given that it is a lease, it is more appropriate and fairer, fairer and more accurate to determine and say that it has the right to hold and use, and not to literally get the impression that it is a state or even maintain on a moving and immovable matter, that the maintenance deadlines on moving things are shorter, and on fixed things longer. Therefore, the leaser corresponds to the leaser for all defects and for all the loads of those things and objects he gave to the leaser. That is why we propose to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29545	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The proposal of the Financial Lising Act to change and read: "If a third party claims to be entitled under Article 18 of this law on the subject of the lease, the recipient of the lease is required to inform the leaser and invite him to release the subject of the lease from the right, pretention and harassment by a third party within a reasonable period." Gentlemen, for the third year since you came to power, you've been passing crucial laws, with one single goal of generating economic capacity and increasing the country's economic power by reducing unemployment. As a businessman, I've always pointed out here, in this republican parliament, because there are few who come from the economy. I consider this law another of your dances to buy time and extend your reign, and in fact it is an extension of the difficult state and agony in the economy. You have closed all the business banks that the businessmen created, and their goal was similar to what the minister today tried to inform us in the Assembly about this law. Today, our country is full of foreign banks with conditions that no economic operator can use, and if it uses them, it is a prerequisite for a very fast failure of credit users. Ever since you came to power, all the economic capacities in the Mačvanska County have died, and especially the chemical industry that was once the bearer of all activities and the driving force of the economy of this region. And I consider this another one of your public deceptions, promises in the election campaign and after the election. The $6.5 billion donations either melted into the pockets of individuals or it was just a promise; and whether the donations even arrived in this country. This amendment sets out the legal relationship between the donor and the leaser with regard to the potential rights of third parties on the subject of the lising. The amendment proposes that Articles 2, 3 and 4 be deleted. The bill is because it regulates a situation in which a leaser should not find himself deceived that he is only in a contractual relationship with a leaser. As always when you propose a law, especially the one you call crucial and crucial, you immediately make it necessary to approve the World Bank or IMF loan. What do we need credit for, if foreign companies and foreign banks are the bearers of total capital in this country, that is, they will be the legal holders of the lease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29547	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29548	The amendment to Article 19 is essentially the result of Article 18 which regulates liability for legal shortcomings. Article 18 clearly states that a leaser shall be liable if there is a third party's right to exclude, reduce or restrict an uninterrupted national leaser. Article 19 further clarifies the notification of the leaser, since he is the only one and responsible, if any legal deficiencies exist. According to us, attitudes 2, 3 and 4 are completely too high, given that this matter regulates the Law on Bond Relations. Perhaps because you wanted to fully suspend this law by means of this law and because you have already stated in Article 1(2) that the entities and legal relations in the business of the financial lease created under this law are subject to the provisions of other laws in cases which are not governed by this law, so you have taken this as well. This should have been left to the Law on Liabilities, i.e. that this law is subsidized to the Law on Liabilities. It would be quite possible for a member of 19 to have only one position that would read as the amendment reads, with the obstinateness that my colleague Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic had given before me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29549	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Branislav Vakic submitted to the title above the members and Article 20 of the amendment. The government did not accept the amendment, the Finance Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 20. I have submitted an amendment to the Financial Lising Act: In the title above Article 20, the word "sension" is replaced by "consequences". In Article 20, paragraph 1, after number "19." Delete the words "Station 1.". The word "uninterrupted" is replaced by "law", and after the word "states", the words "and use" are added. In point 3, the word "sufficient" is deleted. In point 4 following the proposal, "o" is added to the word "financial", and the words "his uninterrupted state" are replaced by the words "his right to hold and use". This amendment follows the previous amendments, and legal shortcomings in bonds can only produce consequences, not sanctions. The Serbian Radical Party is trying to correct its amendments to the law, to free the text of the law from excess words and attitudes, to use the right terms and terms to make the law clear. And in this case, the amendment that I tabled on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I am trying to take the text of Article 20. The bill becomes clearer and more legible. I think it is necessary, before the text of the law comes before the MPs, to seriously work on language arrangements. The law must be clear, unequivocal, specific and legible. I call upon the Members of Parliament to support this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29551	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Finance Committee has also, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29552	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 in order to distinguish financial leases from other leases. Namely, I said that after the letter "O," where it says licking, it should be financial licking. Namely, there's also natural licking. In my opinion, it would be simpler if we let the companies come to Serbia and they'd give the licking, "Volvo", "Skanija", "Man", "Gatapilar", very elaborate and good licking. The middleman who takes the licking and the one who gives it is unnecessary. "Volvo" has the best designed licking. There's one category of citizens who can't get a lick. It's a category of farmers. You see, if a farmer were to pick up the licking machine, some machine on this licking machine, he couldn't lift it. What, is he supposed to mortgage on the ground? What if it's dry for one or two years? He can't pay those two years to rent those machines. I think we should apply the Swedish method of lising, which is far better and more favourable than what is offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29553	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The government did not accept the amendment, the Finance Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The bearer doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee has also, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. A bill that regulates the termination of the contract due to non-delivery. This is a Article 24 of the proposed law where paragraph 1 states that if the supplier does not deliver the subject of the lease to the recipient, or if he delivers it with delay or... In general, instead of a lease agreement, it should stand - a financial lease contract, in order to specifically refer to this bill. I've been given the government's explanation where it's said in Article 2 of this bill that words will continue to be used - the lease agreement. It all happened when this law was handed over in the procedure, however, in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on page 2 it also stands: the Financial Lising Treaty in the text below. So in one part, the government uses the word "Lizing," and in the other part uses term -- financial licking, so the bill promoter himself is not clear whether he's going to use the term licking or financial licking. I think that if it's already called the Financial Lising Act, then it's necessary to specify that words are still used -- financial licking, in all the members of this bill. Then, in the following position, it is said - if the supplier cannot deliver what is set up by the contract, the leaser may hold a contract if, without delay, I deliver the object to the leaser, provided that the leaser is provided for in the lease contract. We spoke here in the previous article - if there is a delay, if there is a non-delivery, and then we give another member a chance for the leaser to subsequently deliver what is agreed, and that is one member that is too high. And how he's going to do it, I just don't get it. I have suggested that Article 2 be deleted. In the third position, it stands - until the delivery obligation which is in line with the lease agreement is fulfilled, the recipient of the lease has the right to suspend payment. I suggested that it says here he's not obliged to pay the lease, not to stop, because he hasn't even started paying the compensation yet, because he hasn't gotten it yet, and that's when he hasn't received those funds from the financial lease contract. The last paragraph 4 is too high in this bill and needs to be deleted. What's still making a misunderstanding or some legal delusion in this article is that the donor, recipient and supplier are mentioned. In particular, the law provides for a contract to be concluded between the donor and the leaser. The supplier is one special link that allows and does not need to work that way. Otherwise, if it weren't for all that, if this object were such, it wouldn't have happened to Covic now, as a leaser, if he were looking for Musli Šefcet as a leaser, this is one political -- financial licking, if there was no Steiner as a delivery agent. Why would he have to do that, that same Covic on several occasions had meetings, words, made several contracts, agreements, in the last two and a half years, with the same one, Musli Šefcet, and now he has thought of asking him to deliver it to him. So, two and a half years ago, he was good and valuable to him, even on television, it's all glamourous, how it's going to be better, especially for Serbs in southern Serbia, and now it turns out that it's one of the villains, which was normally indicated, especially by Serbian radicals, at that time, that with the devil of the pumpkin, it's going to be around the head, as it happens in this particular case. I hope that these arguments that I have made are sufficient for MPs to accept this proposal and thus to remove this legal delusion that exists in Article 24 with this proposal submitted by Serbian radicals, and the law will make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29555	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29556	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I assume the minister has left us, because there is a session of the government that decides whether or not there will be television broadcasts; obviously everything from the Serbian Government's kitchen is about the suspension of television transmissions, so I guess after he returns, we'll know what they've decided. I'm sorry he's not here because this article 24 is very clumsyly written. In the case of a lysing provider, the lysing entity may refuse to accept or terminate the contract, or if the lysing object has a material deficiency, the lysing recipient (which suffers certain adverse consequences) may refuse to accept the delivery or terminate the contract. So we got into a situation where he didn't get the equipment, he doesn't have any other equipment. He refused reception, and he broke the contract and now there are some situations that ignore this fact, and then attitude 2 is completely too high, because he predicts that a leaser can hold a contract if without delay I deliver the item, and that's no longer a licking, then it's a simple lease contract, it grows into a simple contract. Item 3 completely loses its meaning, how to suspend payment, as well as the fourth, anyway, as if he didn't even receive the goods. His payment doesn't start until he receives the goods. According to Article 11, he was not obliged to pay what was not already in his possession and which he did not use if we returned to Article 11. This member will cause great confusion in the event of disputes, whether they take place before our court or before international arbitration. In any event, if you do not adopt this amendment, the Government should deal with the contents of this article in order to clarify the situation which may arise, which I do not see fit to interpret as it should, so that, in any case, such situations may be brought before any court to end in such a way as to protect the lysing recipient.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29557	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 25, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee has also, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 25(2). In the bill of law, the recipient of the lease is obliged to use the object of the lising in accordance with the contract or the purpose of the object of the lising. In my amendment, the binder "or" is replaced by "i". This amendment is due to a poor translation of the Financial Lising Act. Your formulation that the leaser uses the object of the lising according to the contract or the purpose of the object of the lising is pointless. It cannot be expected that someone will conclude a financial lease contract and predict that the object of the lease is used contrary to its purpose. Imagine, for example, that one person concludes a contract on the financial lease where the subject of a truck contract is and that the contract that truck must be used to repack sugar from the sugar cane into the sugar packaging of the sugar beet. Such a contract would be inexecutable. Sugar would not be repacked and Serbia could not cheat on the European Union and export its own sugar. Therefore, a truck that would be the subject of a lising can be used exclusively in accordance with its sole purpose, for example, the transport of sugar. Only such a purpose can be agreed by a financial lease agreement. That's where this amendment is headed. Simply, in order to remove any confusion in the application of this provision, because such an agreed way of using the lising case could lead to ridiculous and pointless court disputes. The purpose of the lising object cannot be set alternatively. Therefore, this amendment removes possible confusion in the application of this provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29559	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? The word is made by MP Radic Jokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29560	Dear Mrs Comic, distinguished fellow MPs, article 26 defined the maintenance of the lising case. The proposed text of that member, according to us, is not good. In fact, the text of the proposal reads: "The recipient of the lising is obliged to maintain the object of the lising in the correct state and perform the necessary repairs on the subject of the lising", and does not say how. We believe that a part of the text that reads is to be added: "in line with the instructions of the delivery of the subject of the lising". What can happen is that the lising recipient does maintenance to one of his experiences and that the object of the lising thus damages. We're wondering who'll be responsible for the damage caused by the lising class.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29561	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by Dragan Colic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Financial Lising Law proposal, in which I ask that Article 27, following the proposal, "o" be added to the word "financial". So: "The recipient of the lease is obliged to pay the leaser a lease fee in amounts, deadlines and in the manner provided for in the financial lease agreement. "The SRS seeks to improve the situation of the amendments in this sphere in a law that does not even theoretically promise, and there is even less hope of finding its application in practice. Foreign capital has an imperative to seek a suitable market for its fertilisation, so this proposal for a financial lease law should be the basis for foreign investment and create legal certainty for potential investors. Amendments by the SRS parliamentary group show who is benefiting from the donor-receiver relationship. Although this law is generally in favour of the recipient, it is evident that the main benefit is the donor. The leaser, which is not rational at all, buys goods from the manufacturer as an intermediary and sends it to a specific address. It is more rational that payment conditions are determined by those who negotiate. Why is a third person being introduced? I guess it's the basics of the manufacturer to sell the goods, I guess the manufacturer has an elemental interest in that. All of the above is not as important at this point as the finding that the state of the economy is chaotic, that healthy economies are gone, that because of the crisis in which your destructive policy has reached us, we represent a suitable ground for all the cruelty of foreign capital in which there is no emotion, nor will there be. There is no understanding of all the difficulties Serbia is in. Because of the lack of capital and outdated technology, we are a suitable market, and the loans we receive are not used for reviving the economy, but for social giving. Obligations are increasing, and the service of the Dosman government is becoming chronic at the expense of both national and all other interests of the Serbian citizens. Your rule is devastating, harmful, your improvisation cannot conceal the government's inability to lead Serbia through prosperity. After the snap elections, which are imperatives and you run away from, we will pass new laws that will be more quality than previous ones and benefit the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29563	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Golub Rajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29564	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on the proposal of the Financial Lising Act, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the grounds that it should encourage the resuscitation of business activities in the Republic, the development of the economy and its rescheduling towards the market economy model, on the 28th floor with fellow MPs from the SPS Group submitted an amendment, where I proposed the following additions: at the end of Article 1, the point is deleted and the following words are entered: "for more than 30 days" are entered; in Article 2 behind the words "late" are added to the words "30 days". Otherwise, this 28th member of the law is in the fourth chapter dedicated to the rights and obligations of the recipient of the lising, and the 28th member processes the right of the leaser to terminate the contract due to the non-payment of the licking fee. The payment of the lease shall be regulated by the previous member, under which the recipient of the lease is obliged to pay the leaser a lease fee in amounts, deadlines and in the manner provided for in the lease agreement. In points 1 and 2 of this Article, the Government has proposed that a leaser may terminate the contract if the leaser is late with the payment of the first, one or more consecutive wars. The amendment proposes a supplement in the sense that the contract can be terminated if the leaser is late for the payment of the war for more than 30 days. In the position of this Article, an obligation shall be imposed on the leaser to, if he wishes to terminate the contract because of the delay in the payment of the agreed war, give the leaser an appropriate ex post period for the performance of the obligation. The amendment shall ensure that the subsequent appropriate period cannot be shorter than 30 days. By accepting this and other amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, this law would be acceptable, and would justify the reasons for its adoption and create significant investment grounds for the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which today is in the most difficult position to date, and would ensure its development and refurbishing towards the market economy model. I am not sure that the adoption of this law will provide great economic importance for the purchase of modern equipment without the involvement of own capital or funds obtained through credit. It may be good that it allows for the temporary use of equipment for which there is no lasting interest, but it is not good when it is the opposite and when compensation is paid, and after a certain time it cannot become the owner, where participation would have been included in the financial assets invested until then or hindering the right to purchase. I suggest you accept this amendment, regardless of what the Government has rejected, with an explanation that these issues are regulated by a contract, not by an imperative provision of the law. This will not disturb and improve the law, and the adoption of this law will not change the very bad situation in Serbia's economy and the country in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29565	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move to the amendment to Article 28, which Natasa Jovanovic submitted. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Finance Committee, too. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at least you who are not in the course of the morning events, actually 12 to 15 hours, we rightly expect Minister Pitic to return soon, but also that a news car of RTS will come along with him, to proceed with the direct transfer of assembly sessions. It would be pointless for us to discuss this and other laws further, given that the minister has left. It's a practice of individual ministers in the government. He left some of his fliers we don't know who they are or what their role is here. Before the law came into the process, they ran into, perhaps these gentlemen, as your special advisers and other advisers, to promote in the Serbian public the importance of the financial lease law. Thus, a certain lady or Miss Jelena Perovic (possibly a lady or another lady) spoke of the importance of adopting the law on financial lising, said it must create a recognizable environment. These other ladies, who are banging like an open window, I'd like you to keep your mouth shut. The MPs are tired of having no cameras, and their slamming and nagging is really something that's unbearable to smart people. As regards the law, she said as the first argument of the necessity of adoption that legally recognizable conditions must be created, stability in the political, economic and economic sphere, so that our country can continue to go through your initial reforms, etc. I am asking the lady or the lady in question, also the minister and the government of the ruling coalition, if it is possible for someone to advocate a positive legal environment in a situation where MPs are in the worst way possible, when the Assembly's decisions are not respected that there are direct television broadcasts. As for Mrs. Landara, she will continue to do her job, the Landara remains a lander. As far as the law and its importance are concerned, it is most important that we teach you that it is not just a matter of legal normation by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, but rather a desire for what you have proposed to us to be improved. Proposer i.e. The government that responded to the amendment, which did not accept, mixed me up with someone. I wasn't talking about what the amendments to the SRS MPs were, and it was about the words "financial licking," because we believe, regardless of Article 2(2) of your law, where you said that in the future it would be about the lease agreement, that the word "financial" should stand. This is about a different legal matter, or normisation, where the contract is said to be broken by law itself. So this chapter is about breaking up the contract. You decided it would be the term "contract breaks up by law". We think it's more right that what we've written is, "the contract is broken down by law enforcement," even though you said you were following Article 125(1) and Article 510(1). The bond law. This term: "the contract is broken down by law itself" is applicable and applies only to the Law on Bond Relations. This is about the financial lease, and we think that the minister who's so much money we've allocated, over 30 million, should spend on his travels this year, traveling to the World and other banks, to international financial institutions, should appear there and promote this law and others with proper terminology. Again, the same lady or missus said they should comply with the laws with our economic opportunities and with the positive legal regulations and our tradition. We think this is more applicable and that you should adopt such an amendment -- a correction of the term proposed by the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29567	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 29, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. The government did not accept the amendment, the Finance Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment which, on the one hand, defines the subject of the law more clearly and, on the other hand, Article 29. The bill releases countless unnecessary words. Article 29 after the proposal "o" adds the word "financial" and the word "sufficient" is deleted. After this intervention, Article 29 would read: "The leaser who terminates the contract for non-payment of the lease for the reasons set out in Article 28 of this Act or in the financial lease agreement has the right to recover the course of the lising, as well as the right to compensation for damages. "It is clear that the amendment explains that it is a financial lease, and by eradicating the unnecessary word "sufficient" article 29 is released from the surplus text without the essence changing. As for the technical interventions arranged for Article 29... Since Mr. MPs from DOS are making a lot of noise, I couldn't say exactly what I was thinking. Here is Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, who refused to hire four Serbian Radical Party MPs. Of course, we Nishli, and you, too, MPs, I'm sure you don't support Mr. Bosko Ristic, my Nishi.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29569	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 30. The title above the member and article of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee has also, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29570	With this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party is trying to correct and force the proponent to be consistent with what it proposes. Article 30 is proof that what is already written in Article 29 does not apply and does not oblige the Proposer. The proposer in Article 29 uses the term "return the object of the lising", and already in Article 30 says: "to obtain the object of the lising". Article 30 refers to certain specific rules, which provide legal protection to the leaser in the event of the termination of the financial lease contract, because the recipient of the lease has failed to fulfil his obligation to pay the lease in the manner agreed. So he fell into lateness. It is probably the most important member to guarantee this need for legal certainty, as the sworn minister said yesterday: "to foreign investors", but if that legal certainty is already provided, then these rules, which are contained in Article 30, must respect what exists in our legal system. In our legal system, it's hardly possible on request to initiate an executive procedure. This initial act is called an enforcement proposal. Here the promoter in three or four places uses that term. When a proposal is submitted and requires an emergency execution through a court, this procedure is relatively rapid because the minutes made before the judge, at a special hearing, contain an agreement between the donor and the recipient of the lising, and by the very fact that it is concluded before the court, it receives the legal power to represent an executive order, a correction on the basis of which it can be requested to be executed. Of course, it should take into account attitude 8, which very nicely defines that this executive document has primate, strength and legal power and it may somewhat challenge the objection or objection to the execution of the solution, but the recipient of the lising is obliged to submit concrete evidence. We have only tried to get the termological arrangements; therefore, if a proposal is submitted, a proposal is submitted for a solution to the execution, and the way in which the execution is carried out would have to be brought into line with the concepts used in the draft law. So if you make a request for a solution to take a lising case from a leaser, I have to say that doesn't mean anything and that this will confuse all the judges who are doing an executive procedure in the Fourth Municipal Court, because that doesn't even signify our legal order. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept some amendment in its arguments or in its views on the amendments, you need a little strength to give a correct explanation. Because these arguments remain, all of these documents, all that is said for the speaker remains as a historical document, and so this will remain as a historical document that at all costs wishes to retain one formulation for which an ordinary judicial intern, who works for three or four months in the executive part of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, which is the executive court, would tell you that there is no such thing. So don't spoil anything that's a good idea and what's supposed to exist. It should be said that the recipient and the leaser conclude the agreement in advance in front of the judge, which provides for the claim, or the return of the state lender, rather than the acquisition of the state, because the state is obtained in one way, and here the vomiting is done. Kids, make sure you don't make any mistakes and don't put up with this historic court.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29571	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 32, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government did not accept the amendment, the Finance Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. The word has an amendment holder, Mr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29572	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32. - It's a purely technical amendment. It should, namely, be more precise and clearer to determine the essence of the provision of Article 32. However, it is obvious that the promoter did not even look at this, because if he had gone a little deep in the problem, he would have realized that everything that was given in two attitudes was explained. In this way, we wanted to make some of our contribution to this law, to fix it as much as we can, because we are very interested in any law that can lead to an increase in production or the entry of foreign capital and investment into our country. This law should theoretically serve that. It is good here that the government has finally realized that its strategy for destroying production, destroying agriculture and selling out everything in this country will not do any good to the state or citizens, so the strategy for turning production is something we can praise. Only three things can get this country out of the crisis that it's in: the first thing is work and production, the second thing is production and work, and the third thing is obviously changing this power. As a result, and the minister is not present, I say that this amendment would technically improve this text, but it is obvious that it does not go into the essence of the whole issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29573	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic. The government did not accept the amendment, the Finance Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible. Does one of the amendment applicants want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29574	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with counterpart Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. It's a bill of law. In this article, the Government proposed that the recipient of the lising is obliged to return the object of the lease to the leaser, another option -- to buy the object of the lising, and third -- to extend the lease contract. The amendment proposes a supplement in the sense of adding a fourth option, so that it can be agreed that, after the contract is terminated and provided that all wars are paid (so, all obligations under the contract are paid) the subject matter of the lease becomes the property of the recipient of the lease. So this is about the predetermined possibility. The acceptance of amendments also implies the obligation to amend Article 1 of the Law, given that it stands in that position - the subject of the lising does not go beyond the term on which the contract is concluded. I don't know why such an opportunity is not foreseen to agree that, after the payoff of all wars, the automatic object of the lising becomes the property of the leaser. Why prescribe such a restriction if the parties have agreed in advance that the object of the lease at the expense of the last war is transferred to the property of the recipient of the lease? The avoidance and enforcement of the law, if desired, has been provided through Article 3, where the minimum term on which the lease agreement is concluded is prescribed. I note that the SPS MPs also submitted an amendment to Article 42 in order to coordinate between Articles 43 and 42. So, it is entirely possible that there are four options for dealing with the lising subject at the end of the contract: firstly, that the intact object is returned to the leaser, as the Government has suggested; secondly, that the leaser, if provided for by the contract, can buy the object of the lease; thirdly, to extend the lease contract and fourthly, which is proposed by our amendment, to enable, assuming that the contract is presupposed to pay off the last war, so, after the reconciliation of all obligations, the subject of the lease becomes the property of the recipient of the lease. If a tax or customs disturbance is mentioned, it cannot be an obstacle to regulate it by other law. Therefore, we feel that this is quite acceptable and that it does not change the concept of the law at all. Based on everything that's been said, I believe the conditions have been met for the amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29575	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The government has not accepted the amendment, the Finance Committee has also held that the amendment is legally possible. Does one of the amendment applicants want a word? The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I did not speak in the principle debate, I will briefly refer to the bill in general. The law, by its content and substance, should be directly linked to Serbia's economy, as it is also intended for Serbia's economy. However, the law must be seen as part of concrete conditions that exist in the economy of Serbia and the environment in which the economy is located. Since the arrival of DOS to power, especially from the privatisation that followed, Serbia's economy has been in very difficult shape and most companies are extremely difficult to operate. What is privatized cannot be initiated, and what is not already in bankruptcy and does not work at all. The promoter wanted to impose confidence and conviction here that this law aims to help Serbia's economy, that the goal of this area and its essence is to make Serbia's economy come quickly and simply to the equipment necessary to launch economic activities. However, our economy is not able to take the loans offered, nor to take the equipment offered by this law. The essence of this law is not to help our economy. The essence of this law is to help the economies of Western countries that want to enter our market as soon as possible, even this way. The essence of the law is that our economy, under the conditions laid down by this law, gets into debt relations with Western companies as soon as possible, to take into the lease equipment of Western companies, to be stationed on our market as soon as possible, and to make our economy absolutely dependent on these foreign companies. Therefore, to be clear and precise: it is not the purpose of this law to help the Serbian economy, the purpose is to help the economies of Western countries, foreign companies, and it is probably something that this government and this government owe to the West for all that the West has done for them over the past years. The law will be difficult to enforce in practice. The law is undefined and unclear until the end, and in particular the last members of this law relating to the register of financial leases, where it is said that a special organisation will run the register. Nothing is said anymore, nor who will determine this organization, determine, define it, in what way. Everything else is undefined so that we don't know who will later, whether the minister, the ministry, the government or who, will appoint an organisation responsible for the management of this register of financial lysing. So I don't think this law will exist for long or it won't exist at all in practice and it's best to withdraw from the debate. As for Article 33, my amendment is purely technical, to be precise - a financial lease contract, and here stands only - a lease agreement. I've heard that there are other types of lising, so it should be specified that it stands explicitly - a financial lease agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29577	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29578	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, provisions of Article 35. The proposal for this law is also contained in the Law on Liabilities and I do not see that this provision should have been introduced at all, if the Law on Bond Relations has detailed and precisely regulated this area. The Serbian Radical Party believes that article 35, item 3 "getting" should be replaced by the word "return". The acquisition of property has absolutely no basis, nor does it have legal logic. Someone was the owner and gave a particular object through the lysing line to the third person and with the consent of the leaser. However, in a specific case, there is no logic in seeking a state, since this one has not lost state property, it has not lost ownership. He just stepped in for a while. That's why there's no legal basis to seek the acquisition of the state. Which way? What legal logic? By what law is it and where are we supposed to get a man twice on the same property? There's nothing and it's not prescribed. I believe that the lawyers will agree, those who have studied Roman law, parallel law, and our domestic law. National MP Zoran Krasic gave a detailed explanation in relation to Article 30. Here it is to be applied, and I see that the Proposer has been used by the Law on executive procedure and deadlines, but it cannot be used in a specific case - a request. In the Implementing Procedure Act, the trustee does not apply. He submits a proposal, he's like a trustee against the debtor. In this case, it is a legal termology, and it would be good to accept this amendment, so that in legal theory and legal public, one bad picture would not be created, at least in the case of theorists and scientists, experts of legal sciences, so that they do not have something here that does not belong to one law. Otherwise, many of the provisions of this bill are contained in the Law on Liabilities, but we are quite clear, and we recognize what were the objectives of the promoter and what he wanted with this bill. This law seeks to regulate legal relations in another way and to exercise certain rights through the lising, which are in particular contained in detail in the Law on Lising Relations. Our Law on Bond Relations is an extremely perfect law, a law that is in continental law and how it is accepted and respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29579	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29580	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, only when we reached article 35 was it clear to us who and how to get financial leases, who would be able to get funding from abroad, or capital from abroad, so that he could buy certain equipment. Let's just say, if I wanted to do some manufacturing work, figure out a program, I need some equipment, I wouldn't know where and who to market the funds with, or who had the money, and who could buy that equipment, and then I wouldn't know by means of a financial lease to use it, normally, with the payment of the fee. A member of the 35th suggests the possibility of palising, although that's not what he's called here, but apparently a leaser can continue to give the equipment to the third person for use. They're the ones who'll know the answers to these questions, which I couldn't answer, and who'll then create that extra profit by having to do with the financials, to know how to get to that capital, to import some equipment. They may not be interested in doing so, but they know who they need, and there's no way to get to capital, and then it'll be practically a classic lease, there'll be funds, extraprofits from that, and all that'll affect the ultimate price of those products that will be the product of that equipment. So we're gonna feel it all, and we're gonna feel it. It's clear to me that the purpose here is to enable a leaser to do something, but I don't believe that the purpose of the entire financial lease is that the leaser continues to rent the equipment, but it should be the purpose of anyone who wants to import some equipment, or who needs new equipment, to find a financier who, in meals, will pay a fee for the use of that equipment. It is clear to all of us that the purpose in the end is to acquire the right of property, that in the end it is to end with a purchase contract and the acquisition of property, that is, the whole financial lease is actually a sale of wars. We don't have to run away from it, so let's just call it a word. The only problem is where the money is and whose money it is. We know who they are, they're dirty, and we have no idea where they are on the side. He's got someone who knows, and he's gonna be able to use this well, and he's gonna continue to lease what he's got on financial lease.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29581	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radic Jokovic and Miodrag Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, my fellow MP Joca Arsic and I have suggested that article 38 be deleted for several reasons. According to the government's proposal in this article, the recipient of the lease is completely unprotected and the leaser is fully privileged and overprotected. In fact, he's not responsible for anything. I understand why she made a proposal like this. It is likely that this law is prescribed from a certain country and would probably not allow you to change this member, because the leasers will be foreigners, who must be protected without having nothing to answer for. The recipients will be our citizens and businesses, it's better to do our damage. What is the contract in this case between the donor and the leaser? What kind of contract is that if the leaser doesn't have any responsibility? The leaser shall not respond if the delivery is delayed, nor shall he be responsible for the material disadvantages of the losin object. No matter what the leaser is not guilty of, he has to answer to the leaser, with him providing himself with a contract with the donor. Lising providers' obligations are reduced to credit, interest payments and commission payments. With a proposal like this, we're going to have a hard time raising and improving the economy. We'll just increase the number of court disputes, secure a job for the courts. When a good Article 38 is looked at in full, the best suggestion is to delete this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29583	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29584	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 38. The proposal of the Financial Lising Act, its first position, reads - if the deliveryer does not deliver the subject of the lising to the leaser, if he delivers it with a delay or if the subject of the lising has a material deficiency, the recipient has a right to deliver, according to the law governing bonding relations, that he was party to the contract with the supplier. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group requires that the words "have according to the right provider that, according to the law governing bond relations, he would have had to be party to the contract with the deliverer" in exchange for the words "he is obliged to inform the leaser in writing". This "literate" is a typing mistake. It's supposed to say "he's obliged to inform the leaser about it in a written manner." In the proposal for a Financial Lising Act, you state that this is a three-dimensional relationship, a three-sided legal business between a leaser, a leaser, a delivery agent. However, legal relations, legal work between these three, as you say in the bill of law, entities, and should stand as a legal participant, there is no. You say there are two contracts on your own to explain the bill. One contract between the donor and the leaser and the other contract between the donor and the leaser. According to the Law on Lising Relations, there is no legal relationship, mutual rights and obligations between the delivery body and the leaser. Any reference to the Liabilities Act does not produce legal facts without legal basis. On the other hand, in this same provision of Article 1, Article 38, which requires that this amendment be amended, it is indicated that the recipient of the lease has a certain right to the delivery of the subject matter, as if he were a party to the contract with the supplier. If a court dispute arises, how would the judge judge judge, according to what legal basis? Under the Bond Relations Act, he couldn't, no contract, no legal basis. This provision - that it was party to the contract with the supplier, which is referred to as the recipient of the lease, is not binding and cannot be used by the judge and the court as sufficient grounds for the legal basis and to make the appropriate decision. Moreover, which state authority should the damaged party address in this case? Will the competent state authority be declared incompetent, as in the case of the MUP when they say they are not responsible for the registration of the Defence Committee of Vojislav Seselj? Will a judge, such as Sonja Brkic or Jovan Prijic, your special public prosecutor, be tried without legal grounds? Or the judge who gave us the order, the SRS, to move out of the party's premises within 15 days? You talk about politics, not law, not law, not nor normative acts and normative provisions that bind all of us, including judges, and you, the DOS gentlemen, who are in power. You should once consider that there is a rule of law here, and politics only to enforce and change laws and law. When the law is already in place, it must be applied to everything equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29585	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Dusan Cvetkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29586	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 39. We have suggested that this member be deleted because it is no solution. This article can be a quality proposal even when the law is applied in practice, so resolve the three-way relationship in the business that appears here. If lising is clearly defined in the realisation of the leaser's rights towards the deliveryer and the relationship between the supplier and the leaser, then there will be no problem. In a solution to this member, the government has made the solution that a leaser chooses a delivery provider and, together with it, accepts with solidarity that they match the leaser. It's not very well known in practice that someone wants to accept a solidarity response. In translation it means - if our citizen takes equipment from abroad, the leaser is a foreigner, he chooses a supplier from abroad and sends equipment with delay, with some lack or damage, when the recipient advertises it, they will solidly agree on who is guilty of them. Legal certainty must be ensured in these affairs for all participants in the business. The leaser must ensure the conclusion of a valid contract, not that solidarity is determined later.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29587	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Zlatan Jovanovic is not present. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Otherwise, neither the Finance Committee nor the Government accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The title above members of the 40th and member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29588	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Financial Lising Bill, which I ask for: in the title above article 40, the word "rock" is replaced by "time". In article 40 after proposal "o", the word "financial" is added, and the word "rock" is replaced by "time". The MPs of the SRS are forced by the unserious nature of the proposing to point to such failures. The term is the term used to determine the time period in the matter of procedural and public law, and when the time period of a particular contractual relationship is agreed then the term time is used. All that the SRS parliamentary group is trying to correct cannot remove suspicions that the Financial Lissing Law proposal will succeed in living in practice and that the consequences of the application of this law will be positive. After your Dosmania Bulldozer Revolution you sowed chaos in all areas of society, whatever you were like dried up. Serbia's economy and economy do not exist. The government of the Republic of Serbia is subject to the blackmails of world powers and is too easily involved in debts that are currently $12 billion, which represents... (President: Please return to the topic, you have read your amendment well and explain it now. )......................................................................................................... High duty. Slowly but surely under your authority we are entering a debt crisis. What has the government convinced us in her past work and conduct that she is working in the interests of the citizens, and what pre-election promises have she fulfilled? Instead of having a rational policy and behaviour, conditions are created for the exit from the major economic crisis and social misery, to possibly improve the standard of citizens, to reduce democratic processes and to reduce rights and citizens, as well as MPs. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group in the session's break took place in a kosara wheel, celebrating the removal of the Serbian parliament's transfer session. The truth about the struggle of Serbian radicals will not be contained and you will have a radical avalanche to bring you back to the place of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29589	I give you a warning on the basis of article 101, since even after my warning, you didn't stick to the subject. (Dragan Colic steps down from the pay phone and goes to the seat, obtaining the president of the Natashi Micic National Assembly: Do you know anything else? ) I also give you a second warning on the basis of Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a debate on this amendment? Please, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29590	I'm really sorry that the minister isn't in the O.R. to tell him the truth now about the reasons for submitting these amendments, and the students will pass it on to him; I assume you're his students, right? Nice to meet you. Now I've found out who you are and what you are. So, we've tried amendments to really edit them by legally-technically correcting the law, we haven't essentially touched them, because the concept is quite different. If the government had been smart, that is, if the minister had looked at it a little more cleverly, if these students hadn't looked around him, he would have adopted all the amendments and not changed the essence of the bill at all, and we wouldn't have had to go out for a pay phone at all, you would have cut the debate short for one day, and we wouldn't have brought Mrs. Chairman to the situation that, nervously bearing a large part of the responsibility because these tensions in parliament have grown today, over TV transmissions, are giving meaningless sentences to the MPs of the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29591	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There's no sign-ins. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. (From the O.R., MPs of the SRS: Are you a little less nervous? )I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, it is forbidden to throw away, so as not to impose any measures on the Rules of Procedure for which I have full authority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 41, which reads in the text of the bill as follows: "The lease agreement ends if the object of the lising is destroyed by some case of more force." In my amendment to Article 41 following the proposal "o", the word "financial" is added, and the words "somecase" are replaced by the word "consequent". This amendment of mine has a similar purpose to the amendment that I have submitted to Article 25. A proposal for a financial lease law. And with one amendment and another, I want the law that you're about to adopt to be in the spirit of our legal order. The government has indeed received a very bad bill, somewhere from the white world, because if this text had been written by one of the Serbian lawyers, I do not believe that instead of the usual terms -- due to more force, it would have used the term -- by some case of more force. In law, instead of legally introducing termology from the market. So I suggest you adopt this amendment so that the law can at least be legally regulated. As regards this first part of the amendment, it is really necessary that Article 41, on which I tabled the amendment, as well as a number of members to whom the amendments have been tabled by my colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, use the word set out in the title of this law. If we are discussing the Financial Lising Act today, then this job must be regulated by the Financial Lising Contract, not by the lease contract provided for in Article 41, which I have submitted the amendment to. The abandonment of the word "financial" speaks of the unserious nature of the proposing who apparently did not favour at least legal-technically regulating this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29593	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) On the title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Here's a chance to talk now. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29594	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS MPs have no intention of changing the essence of the law to the amendments they have submitted, since it is not the concept that would represent the SRS, but, as Gordana Pop-Lazic said, we have tried to make certain words that have been used differently, to make the law more legible, clearer and precise, so that we often ask that the word "lizing" stands in front of the words "financial" so that we know what it is, that the "rock" is replaced by "time", that "rightly ransom" is replaced by the words "purchasing" etc. We consider it much clearer, more precise and more acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29595	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Here you are, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29596	My colleague Stamenkovic has fully explained the reason for submitting this amendment, and I will only ask Mr. Students and you (you are a graduate, I suppose, you already have seven hairs) to explain to me what this sketch is for the bill of bonds and contracts, to which you are calling here in an explanation. Is that in preparation for some new bond law? I really don't know what this is about, but it's a shame that the government is calling for something that might be in the text of a draft.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29597	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Joca Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have proposed that the following amendments be made and complemented in article 42: paragraph 1 is amended and reads as follows: "The subject of the lising, if provided by the contract, is passed on to the recipient of the lising over the period on which the lease agreement is concluded and at the cost of the last installment war, or at the cost of all contractual obligations"; in paragraph 3 after the word "debted yes" the words "corresponding to the position of the 2nd member" are added. In the position of the first member, the Government proposed that the subject matter of the lising could not be passed on to the recipient after the expiry of the time limit on which the lease agreement was concluded. The amendment proposes an amendment in the sense that it leaves the possibility that, after the expiry of the term on which the lease agreement is concluded, the subject of the lease may be transferred to the property of the recipient of the lease at the payoff of the last war, or at the cost of all contractual obligations. This possibility should not be prevented, but rather encouraged. Why prevent a leaser from expireing after the agreed deadline (at least two years - Article 3. - to avoid fictitious contracts), if it has interest and economic opportunities, the subject of the lease is acquired in property.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29599	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29600	It is unserious of the government, when it explains why it does not accept the amendment of the MP, to cover only part of the amendment by reason. I assumed you'd read the entire amendment. This amendment concerns the register of financial leases. That's not something to pay any particular attention to at all. The particular question of the register that was introduced here, without knowing who would run the register, is also the curiosity of this law. That is why we, in the SRS parliamentary group, have proposed that the register of financial lising be run by the National Bank, given that it is public documents. The National Bank is a state body far enough from the government. We don't think it's a good thing what's been proposed by some amendment, that the register of financial lysing is run by the chambers of commerce. It may seem to someone that a register of financial leases should not be given that much importance. I'm telling you this because we have a very bad experience with already existing registers with some state authorities. In particular, the Ministry of the Interior runs the register of the Association of Citizens. A group of us from the SRS formed an association -- a defence committee for Vojislav Seselj. We filed valid documentation, and the other day we got a conclusion where the ministry tells us that they are not in charge of the job, and in the light of the law, it says that the Association of Citizens does not have to be entered into such a register. I've never been able to link the explanation and the dissipation of that solution to the present day. It was a cream for this amendment, so that it would not happen when entering the financial lease into the public register to choose which financial lease contract is to be entered; if the competent authority is an economic chamber, as the DOS MPs suggest, then whether someone in that chamber, such as Dusan Mihajlovic, will appreciate whether a contract should or should not be entered and whether it is not relevant whether it meets the requirements for enrolment in the register. This means that the register, I'm talking about the register of the association of citizens who runs the MUP, is probably legally incorrectly regulated, not to say that it is someone's will or abuse. In order not to do so by enrolling financial leases in a single register, it is necessary in this law that this section, which speaks of the register of financial leases - Head VII, is arranged in accordance with the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to these members. The Registrar does indeed have a purpose only if it contains records and records of all concluded financial lease contracts. You're here to predict that it's only the lease contracts concluded between natural and legal persons. For the first time to Article 43, I see in this law that there is a difference and that there are opportunities to conclude contracts between natural and legal persons. I realized, right up to Article 43, that it's contracts that can be concluded by persons, whether physically or legally, there's no difference, except in this article 43. Everything seems to me like this 43rd term is pretty messed up. That's why I propose to this assembly, since the government's representative is gone, to adopt my amendment, so that at least today, tomorrow, we have an orderly register of financial lease contracts, and that we can control you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29601	Anybody else answer for a word? He has the word Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29602	There's only one thing from Chapter VII that's not clear. I'm taking the opportunity to make this amendment - unfortunately, there is no minister to give an answer, but I guess by the end of the debate, I'm going to point out the consequences of non-registration in the register, since it's one public document. If the contract is not entered in the register, is it valid and what if the organ... Although we do not know which one is responsible for the registration, because Article 44, which follows, reads: "The register is run by a competent organisation, determined in accordance with the law". "Z" is small, so it would be said it does not apply to this law, so I can assume it's the Ministry of the Interior again. If that is the case, we know who the second-degree organ is, we know there's an administrative dispute. If there's a "z" here by chance, so it's related to some other law, we don't see in reason what law it applies to and we can't judge whether there's a right to appeal and the possibility of running a administrative dispute. I think this part is very important and requires an answer to make it clear to the MPs. I don't think it's a minor fact of this entry in the register.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29603	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Sreten Mitrovica. The government has not accepted the amendment, nor the Finance Committee, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There is a word from MP Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29604	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 43. The draft financial lease law, which we propose to delete in Article 43(3). In principle, it was said that this is a brand-new economic law, which is an attempt to regulate all relevant issues regarding lising activity in one place. The reason for the adoption of the review is to ensure legal certainty in the relations arising from the business of the financial lease. Chapter VII of the Financial Lising Act regulates issues in the field of the Financial Lising Register, and in particular Article 43 sets out the concept of the Financial Lising Register and says: "the Financial Lising Register is a public register in which, in accordance with this law, data on lease agreements concluded between natural and legal persons are entered. The Financial Lising Register is a unique electronic database, the basis of which is the central database in which all data are stored in the register." Item 3 says "Local units of the register are formed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". We suggest erasing heading 3 because by amendment to Article 44. We propose a concrete solution to the establishment of local units of registers and that the register of financial lising from Article 43 of this law be conducted in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and that local units be formed in regional chambers of commerce. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is an association of economic operators, so we find it justified and logical to do so and that local units are formed in regional chambers of commerce. These institutions exist, thus saving funds in the formation of new agencies or similar entities. The reason for the Government is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the register of financial leases, together with the register of rights of movement matters, the register of economic operators and other registers of certain laws, will be conducted within the framework of a single body for economic registers, as established by the law governing the establishment and functioning of bodies for business registers, which is said to be prepared in the form of drafts and whose reference to the National Assembly is expected as soon as possible. We do not know what is proposed, but how each register is a massive organisational and technical apparatus, which involves specialized personnel and suitable rooms, we believe that with the help of a small technical and staff, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce would be the institution that could run the financial lease register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29605	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Veselinović to article 44. He's not there. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs Miomir Ilic and Ljubomir Mucic submitted together to Article 44 of the amendment. Is there an application for this amendment? There is a word from the People's Messenger Miomir Ilic. The Finance Committee and the Government have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29606	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted, on behalf of the Socialist Party, along with counterpart Mucic, an amendment to chapter 7, meaning the register of financial lising. The very text of the Bill of Law in Article 44 states: "The Register is run by a competent organisation determined in accordance with the law". I think this is the only bill in which the proposer, or the government, has not given concreteity to things. In all the legal proposals you've made so far, there are certain particulars. Most of it was agencies. We've been listening here to the sea of legal proposals you've made, to form agencies with this and that jurisdiction. There's no such thing here. Let me say, from the point of view of the opposition, for the first time the agency has not been mentioned. It's not right that one of these important legal projects has no jurisdiction. For this reason, we have suggested that the text of this article be changed and read as follows: "The register of financial leases from Article 43 of this Law is being conducted in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. Local registration units are formed in regional chambers of commerce." I am sorry as a businessman that Mr. Veseinovic, president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, is not present here, because his proposals, which he made in his previous amendments, say he, as president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, wants to raise the role of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to a higher level. It is an association that unites all kinds of economic operators, who, after privatisation, have mostly moved to the private sector, and what little social sector certainly wants and wants the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to have a greater impact, not just to gather businessmen there and tell the story without any further influence. For this reason, with the argument that my predecessor stated, that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has the staff and capacity to be the body that can find a place in this legislative proposal to run the financial lising register, I believe that, based on the arguments we have given, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament should adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29607	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There is a word from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29608	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few sentences in favour of the debate on this subject. I am also sorry that the President of the Chamber of Commerce is not present, because we wanted to support this amendment with this amendment, which was submitted by the Democratic Party, or Mr. Vesenovic, on behalf of it, although we have proposed a different solution, but the essence is the same. We now have a situation to lift the Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia or Serbia-Montenegro, and we will transfer its competence to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce has its activities and at a local level, the establishment of municipalities departments. There is a apparatus, there are professional people, and there are, in our understanding of things, all the conditions that the register of financial leases is being run right in the chambers of commerce, even as a transitional solution. At the moment the solution was made, we didn't know that the draft law on so-called law was being prepared. the economic register, and even in our own time, we were thinking that the jurisdiction could temporarily be taken over by the Commercial Court, which normally covers all municipalities, through district centres or centres that have trade courts in their headquarters. But it seemed to us that the Chamber of Commerce was a better solution because it is a place where, among other things, all information must be collected about financial lease operations, starting with telling businesses and economic operators what legal or physical persons are willing to participate with our domestic legal and physical persons in financial lysing business, what kind of offer is on the subject, and that we register all these businesses and register within the Chamber of Commerce, including local registrations, through regional chambers of commerce. The question here can now be asked whether natural persons can participate in these affairs, given that they are not members of the Chamber of Commerce, but, starting from the fact that the natural person involved in the business of the financial lease essentially becomes a businessman and performs one business that is in the function of the economic operator who gives or receives the lease, the question of rationality is now being asked - whether it is justified to form a special register for these financial lease transactions, as if we are few of these state administrations, registrations, officials, bureaucracy, etc., and we already own, I would say, a key and fully sufficient structure in terms of staff and people, as well as equipment in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and in regional chambers of Commerce. It seems to me that this is a proposal that needs to be seriously considered, even if it is a temporary solution, until a business register law is passed in which we will register not only that, but also many other economic activities that are subject to some other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29609	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment is the mid-national MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word from the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. The government did not accept the amendment, the Finance Committee also, the Legislative Committee believes the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29610	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44. The draft financial lease law, to say "the competent organisation designated under the law" replaces the words "The National Bank of Serbia". I've listened very carefully to Minister Pitic, I'm sorry he's not here, that the kindergarten kids are here, in order to present this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29611	On the basis of article 101, I give you a warning because you have offended the presence of representatives from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29612	.... which does not exist in our legal regulation, with one single desire to introduce legal certainty, i.e. the economic importance of the financial lease, to enable companies to obtain equipment without investment in capital or credit and that the lease is extremely favourable for medium and small enterprises that do not have initial capital. Here you are again trying to introduce some institutions whose task would be to close this triling i.e. that there is an intermediary between the buyer and the seller who will legally control the transaction. And that is why, by submitting this amendment, I wanted this institution to be the National Bank of Serbia for the safety of such a transaction. The government has not accepted the amendment, with the reason that there must be an institution with the possibility of monitoring the registration of the financial lease register, along with a register of the right to exercise and registration of economic operators. And this time you're trying to form such institutions, as well as the agencies that you've formed so that the government can manipulate individuals more easily. In this respect, on the basis of a comparative-legal analysis of the issue mentioned, it has been found that the management of special registers in different institutions implies disproportionately high costs and the necessity of recording and searching data in several different places, which is why such systems have proved to be inadequate, both in financial and functional terms. If this draft law does not determine the body responsible for keeping the register, then it is not clear why the draft law contains provisions on the register. The National Bank of Serbia is probably the only authority capable of running this register, considering that payment traffic control is also with that authority. At the same time, the keeping of registers is an exercise of public authority, and their trust in other organisations would create other problems, especially for individuals who do not carry out economic activity. By this law, since all your methods have been exhausted so far, you are trying to sell out this little bit of lagging economic capacity that has been struggling hard for their survival and to preserve their employees. With these legal standards, you are trying to protect the mediator, not the user and the equipment salesman. Such institutions as you want to form must be trained, both in monitoring financial flows and in the technological-production process, which would prove to be irrational and massive. You want to ensure a high level of legal certainty in business traffic, and I agree with that, but he remains an unprotected user. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29613	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic - right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29614	Gentlemen, I almost knew that the chairman would come out after telling the MP for no reason, so I would, for the sake of respect of the Rules of Procedure, remind me of a member of 189 who speaks of who is the Government in the National Assembly. "The right and duty to represent the Government in the National Assembly, when considering all issues of its jurisdiction, has the Prime Minister. The government determines the members of the government representing it on a specific issue on the agenda of the National Assembly session, or session of its committee. Representatives of the government at meetings of the National Assembly and its committees can only be members of the government." For this reason, and it was my observation during the afternoon session of Mr. Minister, I had no evil intention; there was practice, there was still, it was arranged for a Rules of Procedure who could attend the meetings of the Assembly. "The government representatives participate in the work of the National Assembly in accordance with the powers laid down by the law." Here is Article 190, because Mrs Comic likes to read at least two more members after what I read: "To give professional and other explanations, at the meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly, the government can determine its creditors". Article 191 states: "With the draft law, regulation or general act, or other material submitted to the National Assembly, the Government shall inform the National Assembly of its representatives and trustees for meetings of the National Assembly and its committees." Please, we haven't been informed of this and hence this remark of mine. I once said "students," maybe it is, maybe you're graduates, maybe you're assistants, I don't know, the only thing I know about a gentleman is that he's a deputy -- I asked Mr. Shabic, but the chairman didn't inform us about it. If she'd let us know, we probably wouldn't have asked, but if someone told me "girl," I wouldn't have been offended, and I don't see why this was an insult here. I don't see why it's an insult, why it's an insult within the meaning of Article 102. Please, may a reminder be made for what he has spoken to the Lord, not knowing who they are, with children?- I'm sorry. I don't really see anything wrong with that. Since I am certainly unsatisfactory by your argument, I ask the Administrative Committee to declare this because the de facto fact that the chairperson today during the session did not find it appropriate to introduce us to the persons present here. I don't mind, but we have every right to know who it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29615	I do not dispute the accuracy of the cited provisions and articles of Rules 189, 191 and 192. The statement of notice shall fall within the discretionary authority of the President of the Assembly or of the Chairman and shall not fall under the jurisdiction of the Rules of Procedure as such. Anyway, on behalf of the National Assembly, I want to say hello, because this National Assembly is glad to see young and successful people in places to work. Is there still a word report? National MP Velimir Simonovic, I cannot formally give you a word in the context of the debate in particular. It would really be a violation of the Rules of Procedure. There's a chance within other points. Only by amendment. According to article 89, you would only be entitled to a principle debate. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Pitic, since he became minister, no longer comes to the Assembly. As for the amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 45, it is in the direction that Gordana Pop-Lazic spoke of a time ago, explaining one other amendment, therefore, in the function of the legal-technical editorial of this law and in the function of concreteising and preciseing some members of this law. The largest number of amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group are indeed in the role of legal - technical editorials and the precision of certain terms of ovzacon, and a small number of amendments essentially amends this law, as the SRS is in principle against the law, i.e. against the financial lease. We think the lease law is supposed to exist, but we think it's too high and we're basically against the financial lease. So, as for Article 45 of the Law, that is, the amendment that we have submitted to this article, the word "leasing" is also added in front of the words "financial", so it is clearly what it is. The government is in its response, which is why it does not accept... Milka, the congregation has determined what you are competent and competent to do, not licking, so I ask you to respect this congregation home. (Milka Marinkovic, from the scene: "Do you want me to slap you in the middle of the session?" )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29617	Member of the People's Parliament, I remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which prohibits discarding both MPs who are in the MPs' benches and the speaker behind the payphone, so I am warning you to pay attention to the text of the amendment you are talking about and to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29618	If you had warned her, I probably wouldn't have reacted. So, the government, explaining why it did not accept this amendment, gave the same answer as the amendment that we submitted to Article 6, calling for Article 2 of this law to be specified that in the further text, the Financial Lising Treaty would be called - the Lising Treaty. Once again, I note the analogy that the government could apply, that in the first term when it defined financial leases, it said that in the further text of this law, financial leases would be called licking, and then would lead to the same level of financial lease and financial lease contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29619	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29620	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 46, and that is, in fact, the continuation of Amendment 43. I've requested that the National Bank keep a registration register and I've requested that the data be kept not in the register but recorded. This amendment was rejected by the government on the grounds that the amendment would not be accepted for the reason that the register of financial leases, together with the register of right to move matters, the register of economic operators and other registers of certain laws, will be conducted within the framework of a single body for economic registers, as established by the law governing the establishment and functioning of bodies for business registers, which is prepared in the form of drafts and whose reference to the National Assembly is expected within the shortest time limit. This shortest deadline can be much longer than this congregation and this government. We are witnessing that many of the laws passed by this congregation to this day have not come into force, although they have been published in the "Official Messenger", although they should have started to be implemented, so at the very least one such explanation by the government's representatives wonders at the very least. It is known that this is now the youngest minister in the government, who is currently not in the Assembly, who brings in his team, his deputies and assistants. Now that he's gone, we don't need any deputies or deputies, and deputies and deputies bring their deputies and their assistants. No one's told me yet who these gentlemen are sitting here in the assembly. If they're guests, they belong at the gallery, and if they're members of the SCOY, I don't need to be surprised at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29621	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29622	Dear colleagues, when we came to a member of 44th and the arguments the government gave to the amendment of the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, or DHSS MP, we saw who would run this register. It says that, together with the register of rights of movement, the register of economic operators and other registers of certain laws, this will be conducted within the framework of a single body for economic registers, as established by the law governing the establishment and functioning of bodies for economic registers, which is prepared in the form of a draft and whose reference to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is expected as soon as possible. We've been expecting him since Sunday. We've heard we'll have an emergency procedure, obviously, that law, even though we're in a regular session. It is now our best option to decide by an urgent procedure on the laws, that MPs do not have time to deal with them in more detail. I ask why this law, which is addressed by an emergency procedure, with an explanation given for an emergency procedure, comes into force immediately, and these members of the register, from Articles 43 to 51 of this Law, will apply from 1 January 2004. Registration in the register, which is one public document, everyone has the right to see into that register. It also has certain facts according to third parties. Third parties are believed to be familiar with that if the register exists. I'm asking, when this law comes into force, when these financial lease contracts start to be concluded, they won't be able to be registered at all until next year, as far as I know, and maybe I get it wrong? There's no minister to explain it to me. Article 49. (I will not return to each individual, because the whole chapter refers to the register) - the leaser is obliged to register from Article 1 of this Article within seven days of the date of conclusion of the lease agreement. Where? When? Who? We really don't know that. Therefore, these amendments did not simply allow them to confuse the opponent, which we would say, but indeed in good interest, to draw attention to the applicant of the proposal, which is not infallible, which can be overlooked by some things. Or the same package was supposed to bring in that second and third laws, all those that complement each other, so that we wouldn't come into practice in the situation to pass the law, and it can't be applied. Then, like, it'll all work out, but in a year. Don't cut the donkeys to the green grass.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29623	National MP Milorad Mircic submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29624	The SRS amendment to Article 47 is related to the amendment submitted by the SRS to Article 44. In contrast to some other proposings, the SRS suggests in Article 44 that the National Bank of Serbia should run the central records, and in Article 47, we also propose that the right to charge the fees be paid by the National Bank of Serbia. The right of the promoter to accept; or not accept, if he does not accept the amendment, then he must give a logical explanation. This explanation that the promoter gave has no logic or foothold in reality. Namely, the proposer in this case, the government says -- a new body will be formed to keep a central record. Of course, I suppose this new body will also charge its services, but this new body should not function until 1 January 2004. Here, in an explanation and from the presentation of the Secretary-General, it was heard that this law has its own justification for an emergency procedure, for simply being a new incentive for the development of the economy, as you like to say, a new momentum for the reform currents coming from the west. What's the point? Let's just say that the promoter can suggest forming a new body. Some political parties have proposed to the amendments that it be the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. What is the fundamental problem, where it is an obstacle that services or service fees, and in a new body, can be charged by the National Bank of Serbia. There's no reason. There is no argument that an institution called the National Bank of Serbia cannot charge services. The explanation says - we are calling for an explanation in Article 44. A member of 44th and a member of 47th had absolutely nothing to do with it. Especially since in your reasoning for article 44, as a reason for not accepting the amendments, you state that the job cannot be done by the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. We say in Article 47 -- the fee for expenses can be paid by the National Bank of Serbia. You want to be kind and explain to me what this has to do with the Chamber of Commerce and what is legal, legitimate, which is done by the National Bank of Serbia. If you're giving an explanation, or if you don't want to accept the amendment just because it's proposed by the SRS, then try to help the minister, then come up with an explanation, state the real and real reason that we can say it -- it's not because the SRS suggests it, but because the ministry has a new vision. You don't have any new vision, gentlemen, you're on your way to the realization of an idea. You want that idea to come true or to live on January 1st, 2004. How about I continue these two minutes tomorrow? If you wanted to live, you would accept a temporary solution. It won't be at the expense of the bill, it won't do any harm, and you will allow after this law enters into force and the conclusion of a lease agreement. If you have any argument, we Serbian radicals will accept that argument. You have no arguments. Had you had them since 2001, you would have made at least one argument that would have been accepted by you not by the radicals, but by the whole of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-05-14-0.u29625	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) If not, we are finishing work for today and continuing to work this session tomorrow at 10.00 hours of discussion in particular, by amendment to Member of the 48th National MP Stevan Kesejić. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 108 MPs. Please, in order to determine the quorum needed for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that we have a quorum for work and I am informing the National Assembly of the absence of Members of Parliament for today's working day. They were prevented from attending the following MPs: Meso Omerović, Neda Arnerić, Pal Shandor, Milos Radivojčević, Branimir Trajkovic, Ratimir Svirčević, Išpanovic Istvan, Zivica Predojev, Juhas Atil and Miroslav Markicevic, and Srdja Popović and Biači Anton will only be absent during the morning session. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Financial Lising (existing in particular) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Stevan Kesejić.
