ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28334	Dear People's MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed to be a member of 6. The bill is deleted. Here's why. If that's not how it's done, there's going to be a very awkward situation. This isn't about politics, this is about a practical solution. Look what it's all about. If the proposed amendment would not be adopted, we would be in a situation where all those convicted under this provision of the Law later complain and use a remedy for violating the principle of legality, which clearly states that there is no penalty that is not provided for by law. Such a complaint would have to be adopted and it comes out that this proposed provision would return as a boomerang - would not lead to what is wanted by the proposal, or by the proposal of this legal member, but would have just encouraged the execution of these crimes. Of course, we're not going to get into whether this is a good general or not. Max is one thing, and when we wrote this amendment, we left it aside. All we're saying is that it's impossible to do this in this way, because the bill violates the principle of legality of Article 3. The criminal law of Yugoslavia. She would, however, be possible, but would have to change the maximum sentence of Article 38. The criminal law of Yugoslavia, however, did not do so. What does Article 38 say? Criminal law? It's very precise and determines that prison can't last more than 15 years on any basis. The exception is a substitute for the death penalty, and after amendments to the Penal Code, a 40-year sentence can be prescribed. However, a 40-year sentence can always be prescribed only with a 15-year sentence, only to highlight a general maximum prison sentence that cannot be overcome. A 15-year sentence or just 40 years can be imposed. However, there is no possibility, neither theoretically, to impose a sentence between 15 and 40 years in prison. The same situation is also in the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia -- for all those acts that envisioned the death penalty until the amendment of the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia in 1993. And when these changes were made, the death penalty was replaced by a 20-year sentence. So it wasn't a sentence between 15 and 20 years in prison, it was just one or the other. Therefore, the failure to adopt this amendment would lead to serious consequences, would return as a boomerang, and not only would it not achieve the purpose that the Proposer wanted, but it would have happened the opposite - would have prevented adequate punishment for the perpetrators of such crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28335	Thank you. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28336	Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law relating to a Article 46 of the existing Law. In part, we agree with the intervention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we cannot agree that the word "multiple" is thrown out of the title of this member in tightening the sentence in the event of a return. Perhaps Mr. Sabic, as a lawyer, and Mr. Batic, also as a lawyer, will agree with our intervention. As members of the government, they probably have a different opinion or respect for the position of other government participants, but there will be cases in practice that someone will be sentenced to 12 or 13 months in prison because of some random bar fight and if it happens to him one more time, he can get a very strict sentence. As a result, we believe that there should still be a certain time limit in the event of multiple returns. See how this says in the Law: "When a court weighs the punishment for a crime committed in return, it will take into account, in particular, whether the act is the same as the new act, whether both works have been done from the same initiatives and how long the time has passed since the previous conviction, or from a sustained or forgiven sentence". We don't think he's burned that even now he exists. No matter what you say, these laws may be of temporary character, and perhaps after three or four months, a review of these laws will be carried out, if any of the faces do harm, they will be irreparable. For this reason, we propose that in the draft law amending and supplementing the law, this institution, so-called. multiple returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28337	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28338	The bill promoter made a big mistake when changing this member. I don't know what the motives are and what are the reasons why he suggested that this member be changed; he can contain some grammar or linguistic irregularity, multiple returns seem a little raving, but that rightly has its own particular meaning and that meaning hasn't changed for 200 and a few years. This should be one of the institutes that allows the court and the judge to apply a very precise criterion in individualization, which is the earlier condemnation of that person, which suggests his proclivity, means the proven tendency to commit crimes. If the word - multiple is cast out, then that tightening loses that meaning of a particular case and the proneness of an perpetrator. This is why we ask that the concept, a multiple return, remain practically, to point to the continuity, perhaps even the mental state of a person who is prone to crime. Even more important for this member, it does not matter whether it is a tendency to commit only certain crimes, but a multiple return indicates that it is a conflicting personality, so in some variants and psychopathic structure of a person, who simply cannot accept standards of conduct in a healthy society and his space, his being is located in the doing of socially dangerous and forbidden works. That's why the word "multiple" especially potentiates that tendency. That's the first reason we've submitted this amendment and we're asking for something that's a classic criminal law institute. The second intervention that we have carried out with this amendment concerns Article 46, paragraph 2, which reads as follows: "The strict penalty must not go beyond the double measure of the prescribed penalty. "The basic text now says, "not 15 years in prison," and we're asking for an amendment to erase this "no 15 years". For what? The rest of the text is not so important for this amendment, and it says - if a 40-year prison sentence is prescribed, it must not be 40 years. This restriction is acceptable, but this in 15 years, we believe it should be deleted, although it points to contact, and this provision does not treat contact. This provision treats the situation that the person against whom the proceedings have been conducted earlier has already committed a criminal offence for which the sentence has been imposed, and one verdict solves the situation and lighting up five, six, and more acts. So, you can't make that connection and that mistake, but this norm and this part of "no 15 years" practically means nothing in this provision, and it can only confuse the court when measuring the penalty for the latest act, since it's obviously an individual, and then it's a crime machine. So we suggest that these words "not 15 years" are thrown out; of course, this applies only to prison sentences, and the fine cannot be applied, because that member does not treat that kind of tightening.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28339	Five minutes, okay. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic and joint MPs Đorđe Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Please, the word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28340	As a representative of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law of the SRJ. In this Article, Article 8 proposes to delete Article 48 paragraph 2 (1) and (2) of the earlier law. So, with the amendment we have submitted, we suggest that this member be deleted, and why? Let's take a look at the explanation of why an existing solution in the old law needs to be changed. Namely, Articles 8. (shown in the light of the Bill's proposal) it is envisaged that, when sentenceing the perpetrator who has committed several crimes (criminal crime) a single prison sentence that may be greater than 15 or 40 years in prison, with no greater than the collection of established penalties for certain criminal offences. How was it in the existing law? There he says, in Section 1: "If the perpetrator has committed several crimes with one or several actions, which he is being tried at the same time, the court will first establish penalties for each of these acts, and for all these acts he will give a single sentence. A single sentence will be imposed by the court under the following rules: 1) if a criminal offence has been found in prison for 40 years, it will only punish that sentence." Second, if he has found prison sentences for a criminal offence, the single sentence of prison must be greater than any imposed penalty, but must not reach the set of established sentences, or must not exceed 15 years. What is it and why do we advocate to remain an existing solution to the old law? If I were to, in Serbian terms, want to make a cut, I could say, well, when we adopted that article on 48th and when we said what should be in attitude 1 and what should be in attitude 2, we must have had something as a model; that's when we said that we had to compare ourselves to the laws of the European Union, that's a ticket there. So from here my question would be logical, if we had it as a model and if we applied it, what does it change now? If we're not, why aren't we, but it's not the point of being distracted whether or not we are, the point is something else. I remind myself that I have also advocated from this pay phone that the death penalty is not lifted, however, it is said that this should be done, because we will not be able to do otherwise in Europe. That's when we set a 40-year sentence as the highest sentence. What are we doing with this now? We're now saying, if the highest sentence for actions is 40 years, then there's another, then another 40 years, we can theoretically sentence someone to 120 years in prison. Look, the maximum sentence of prison is 40 years, there's no life sentence. The human century is still limited, man doesn't live like a Galapagos turtle or some kind of raven, so this one's not worth it. If the purpose of punishment and of measuring the penalty to determine the period in which it is necessary to resociate, then the 40-year sentence is likely to be sufficient. Otherwise, if it's something else and bigger, it's no longer a punishment and it doesn't lead to resociation, it's revenge. Then we need to see what and how and what we want with this. What we want for over 40 years, is whether we want to introduce a small door to a life sentence that isn't here, because this is the biggest punishment or we want to do something else, or we're going to say-- someone's theoretically sentenced to 120 years, and he's only 40 years old. (President: five minutes. ) These are things, thank you, which should certainly be clarified. That's where our intervention was to consider what we were talking about before the final decision was made and before it was determined how to solve this problem. As far as we're concerned, we expect this, what I'm talking about, to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28341	The People's MP, George Mamula, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28342	For this member of the bill, what I was saying yesterday for Article 2 applies. The reason here is that there has been an increase in the number of crimes committed, which does not fit the MIP report at all, where crime has been reported. In fact, the total crime rate was down by 6,500 in 2002 compared to 2003. Economic crime has fallen by a thousand, a general crime of 5,500. Then what are some crimes on the rise? Secondly, there is no analysis of whether prison sentences and criminal policies have affected the execution of these crimes. So the amateur approach is something extremely unserious in an emergency, where it's said that the seriousness of the moment requires us to accept it. If someone analyzes this seriously, compares it to the M.O.P. data we got from Mr. Sutanovac, then I don't think anyone's taking their work seriously enough. On the other hand, the amendment here indicates the mistake that occurred, which was an oversight or a slip. It is not possible to combine sentences with a higher sentence than 15 years in prison, because the maximum sentence is 15 years, and for the most difficult acts of 40 years. So you can't change Article 48 and not change Article 38, which says the minimum penalty is 30 days, and the maximum is 15 years. This means that even in criminal acts where you can say 40 years, you can say up to 15 years in prison, so the minister's explanation that the bill predicts that you can say over 15 and over 40 years is not true. In addition, it is also important to see how solutions are made in other countries. From Germany to Belarus, there is no such proposal. So this has nothing to do with harmonising rights with the European Union. The worst part is that the government did not accept this amendment, and if there were any failures in the proposal, then the amendment encouraged reflection. It takes people from the government to correct a mistake. Article 2 proposes something already proposed, and Article 8 proposes something that is impossible. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted. According to this, as it turns out here, it is possible for someone to commit five heavy thefts, to receive 10 years each, and given in a collection, it is then 50 years in prison, and it does not change Article 38. You have to change Article 38 if you keep to the law. This is what I'm saying because I believe he's sticking to the law. And if I didn't, I wouldn't show up at the pay phone. On the other hand, look at the practice of other courts. One lady in The Hague for genocide got 11 years or just 11 years. So, he says settlement, well, plea for genocide for 11 years, and here for five thefts he can do 50 years. It should be taken care of, and I think the objections have arrived from the European Commission and the European Council, only they are not made public. The Minister of Justice could take care of it. In addition, Professor Phler was to be consulted from the New Sad Law Faculty, Bora Cejovic of Kragujevac, Professor Lazarevic of Belgrade and Djordjevic. You'd see what they, like people who are admitted to the profession, think. All right, maybe the minister thinks they don't deserve his attention and their work, as foreigners quote them. In addition, it should be borne in mind with this member that the criminal justice system can at least achieve when the state apparatus expects it most of all. (President: 5 minutes. I know. In addition, Mr Batic said that the conditions in our prisons, and what about this member, are better than in Cheveningen. If that's the case, then the prison sentence will begin, if it's not already seen as a reward, not as a punishment. It could happen, because of such improved conditions, that prisoners write applications to prison administrations to extend their stay due to good conduct. So respect this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28343	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28344	The legal and logical link in this article is preceding Article 7. The bill; although the amendment was submitted, unfortunately, no one came out to explain it. It's a particularly difficult case, especially a difficult case. This has been expelled from our legislation since 1990, and all the conditions and reasons that can indicate that it is a particularly difficult case, have been inserted into concrete criminal acts; whether it is a position 2, 3 or 4 of a member who regulates and describes the elements and will be given a criminal offence. We practically now have a particularly difficult, especially difficult case for already existing particularly difficult cases in concrete crimes. When that logic is applied, then there is no wonder of the solution proposed in Article 8. The bill, that a single sentence, when it comes to the acquisition, comes by system one and one is equal to two, two and two is equal to four and so to plus infinite. All those in law school, who just mentioned my predecessor's silence, just shut up and can't say anything. If they write about these changes and additions, be sure, it will be presented, these changes, as a ridiculous Olympics of impossible things, legally and lifeless things. What's this about? If a person is brought before a court, at that moment it is determined in a court procedure that he has committed 10 crimes of the same kind, of different types or of those crimes that logically follow one another, we will be in a position to ask the question - and why the state did not prevent him when he did the first act. If the state had stopped him after the first part, he wouldn't have been a multiple returner and would not have done other acts and would not have been a crime machine. So that state can't rule out its responsibility. That's the first problem. The other problem that arises is ice. Our M.O.P. is still working on the system -- he catches a man, he declares himself a suspect, and then 30 unexposed pieces are placed on his account, he's taken to the N.C., he's held for two or three days, or he's tied to a radiator, admit it, confess it, confess it, confess it, and the man admits it. When they take him to the coroner's office, he confirms that statement and finishes his job. As a result, in the legal theory, there is a dual opinion on what the defendant means. Whether it's just a party statement, because the accused party is in the process or it's full recognition that the act is executive. For this reason, and because of these particular shortcomings, in our criminal practice, this kind of mathematics cannot be accepted when establishing a single prison sentence. We'll be in a situation where a man gets 10 crimes for which the following provisions of this law are prescribed, for example, the minimum sentence of three years, in 10 parts 30 and a few years in prison. (President: 5 minutes. ) Another great lack of this article is that in this way it is out of the hands of a judge who has to apply individualization to cast out the most important argument in the criminal responsibility of a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28345	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28346	Ladies and gentlemen, since this really is a serious matter, I think we should take a little bit more into account, because it's unfortunate that the parliamentary majority is not showing enough interest in these topics. But when you look at the consequences of the proposed legal solutions, we come to the fact that it really is something that can be a disgrace to our country, to all the lawyers sitting in this assembly and to our entire legal system. I did not go out to explain the provisions of the previous amendment to Article 6 which regulates multiple returns, nor the amendment which erases a particularly difficult case or particularly difficult case. These two provisions were abolished in the early 1990s in line with the democratisation of our country and our criminal legislation at the time, because I think the situation is absolutely clear. In this amendment to Article 8, the acquisition of criminal offences and the manner in which it is regulated will allow for a situation where cumulative punishment will be a substitute for life sentence. Now we come to the legal court or the field of legal controversy whether a life sentence is socially justified, whether a society that has a legitimate claim to punish perpetrators, a serious crime or more criminal acts will be satisfied in case it has an obligation to hold a prisoner for the rest of his life in prison. Then we open the question of whether our prisons play such a role that allows prisoners to deal with enough community service, whether they will work for the benefit of society or only be on the burden of society. Again, a particular issue of human rights and civil liberties has been regulated since 1948 by the United Nations Declaration on Human and Civil Rights, through the 1966 International Pact, which came into force in 1976, through the Civil Rights Charter of the 1950s, the European Union, to the Civil Rights Charter and the rights of minorities of our country, adopted on 28 February this year. So the life sentence is unacceptable. I regret to say that these changes in criminal laws have been announced for a long time, that Justice Minister Mr. Batic and the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Pajtic, have repeatedly in their statements, both on television and in the press, announced that, among other things, organised crime will be more effectively controlled by stricter criminal policies. I have to remind you of one fact. All those who have tightened their criminal policies have failed to achieve their goal by tightening their criminal policy, or by providing for punishment or united punishment for several crimes. It is much more certain when perpetrators of criminal acts are intimidated by the unforgiving application of the penalties they are intended to punish, which may be milder than by predicting stricter penalties that are not applied. So, I think that American criminal rights theorists have found one formula - a criminal before committing a crime or crime has in mind, for example, that a fine of $1,000 is intended for his crime, and that the likelihood that the punishment for such a crime will be 1:10; his assessment of the cost of a crime is one tenth of a thousand dollars, and that means 100 dollars, and according to this, he estimates whether to commit a crime. It's an example from the U.S. judiciary. We have a situation here that the cumulative punishment is predicted and can lead to a conviction of life, but since time is running out, I'm going to have to report back some time to finish the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28347	No more logins for the word on this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law relying on Article 48. SRJ's criminal code, as it stands in the bill. So, what's this all about? The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely for heavy crimes to be punished in accordance with the law and applicable regulations and the Constitution, which is still in force. However, we absolutely cannot accept the proponents' views that, as amendments and additions to Article 48 are foreseen here, cumulative penalties are being added, thus determining almost life-long prisons. As a result, my amendment speaks of the removal of the sentence of 15 years in Article 48, paragraph 2, and this point speaks of the fact that if the sentence of 15 years is found by a court for a criminal offence. We are erasing this point for the reason that there must be a point 1 that says, "If a crime is committed, it will only punish that sentence for a 40-year sentence." Also, at point 3, which is logical, we delete the word "fifteen" and add the word "fourty", which would limit the limit on the maintenance of the penalty for the most serious crimes. The promoter wanted this proposal, as we heard here from Minister Batic, to punish those crimes committed in various criminal attempts, to add up and thus to punish over 100 years in prison, which is far less humane than the previous punishment that was under the applicable laws, which we have abolished, and that is the death penalty. I must say, I'm afraid that in a poor country like Serbia, we don't get into a situation that we can't provide prison facilities for such heavy convicts who are practically sentenced to life imprisonment and that this is going to cost the country a lot, because we need to build some new Sing Sing or Goli Island. As an example, I can name a country whose name I won't name because of diplomacy. At the beginning of the 21st century, there was an unkind event in that country and there was a translation from Russian -- yesterday, today, tomorrow. There was a case in that country that a relative came for his convict, whose long - term sentence expired, and he was practically gone. The question is, where is he? He's gone. After the investigation, it was found that the prisoners had eaten him. I fear that Serbia, also a poor state, will become a man-eating state; I believe that this member would necessarily have to accept it, because otherwise we would be in a position to be accused by international communities of humanity in addition to all charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28349	There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28350	The problem of a uniform punishment in the pursuit of criminal offences regulates this article, and we have amendedly tried to establish one principle, and that principle is about to say that by collecting fines for a large number of crimes, a maximum prison sentence of 40 years can be imposed, not a day after that. Which is why -- the fact is it's hard to shed light on some criminal acts that make up an organized group, where there are elements of brutal, ossion, ferocious, and in another particular way of committing a crime, where probably the punishment of prison should not be a measure of resociation, but rather a rematch of society towards such a brutal perpetrator of criminal acts. But everything must have its own measure not only because of who we send to prison, but because of those who are on this side of the prison wall, for all of us. You know, for a death sentence, it was usually a life sentence, or a 20-year sentence. By 1983, all the professional public in Europe had simply gotten on their feet because it wanted to make Europe different from America, that there was no more death penalty in Europe. Many wrote petitions, both as students and as lawyers, joined the initiative, was a special group of lawyers in Serbia who for many years led the action to simply end the death penalty. She is not essentially a punishment, and anyone who holds on to an ordinary rot that he is a Christian and that he is a human being knows that a human being has no right to decide on someone else's life, there is no. That's right for the one we believe exists and is the Most High. If we're Christians, if we're humanists, then we'd all have to be against the death penalty. I'm particularly surprised when the representatives of this new government so irrevocably appeal to return the death penalty, and you see for yourself, in half of America they threw it out. She's only stayed in some states with a clean cowboy past. So, the purpose of this amendment is to only get to the maximum prison sentence of 40 years, which is possible and desirable. Everything beyond that would no longer be a punishment, it would already look like something else, for which we are not human beings authorized. It's a moral problem here -- why someone came into the situation to do so many crimes, and usually when the most brutal murderers appear (I'm talking about the most serious crimes, taking a man's life, there's no hard part of it, whether it's murder on the mah, whether it's some other qualified form of murder), it's supposed to be taken care of. So, even in the most serious crimes, if it's about a man who killed 7-8 people, so today he's being tried, believe me, he's closer to inaccountability than any criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28351	Anyone else want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28352	The substance of the proposed amendment is the office, even if this solution is better than the existing one, and I will only complete the story of cumulative punishment; the long-standing sentences, which will be allowed to life sentences, will not be able to perform that basic function which, in recent times, therefore in a more modern theory of criminal law or penal law, criminal law, mentions, is resociation. So, if the aim is to impose a prison sentence, above all, is to isolate the perpetrators who would be protected by society, and if the aim is to satisfy justice, there is also a third objective, which is to repair those persons who are perpetrators of multiple crimes, in order to resociate them. In this way, cumulative punishment can lead to a situation where resociation is absolutely unspeakable. Despite the fact that I have already mentioned, which has been mentioned in many statements about the press of the DOS gentlemen who have said that in this direction, by tightening the criminal policy for criminal offences, more severe penalties are to be imposed, a uniform penalty for the same crimes is to be determined, the system of cumulation is applied, i.e.. the collection of individual penalties established. However, they overlooked one thing, that in our system there is really no provision for life imprisonment. I explained why this sentence of life is not acceptable; I explained why we will have problems in relations with the European Union, in relations with those in charge of monitoring comparative rights and in this area; I explained why in the late 1990s, more precisely, in the early 1990s and late 1980s, we made solutions or changes in criminal law that had to comply with the provisions of our criminal law with the provisions of international criminal law, and I really don't think further explanations are necessary, because I'm increasingly getting the impression that I'm talking in vain, that no one will understand the essence of what is proposed. I do come to a dilemma whether it is necessary to continue to explain this, or to interrupt, but I said and saved my soul, the sentence of a life sentence in the practical application of that system, compared to organised crime, will be only a difficult circumstance, which can lead to another situation, very difficult for our country. The situation was faced by the US state authorities in the mid-70s, when in their prisons (and there are two types of prisons in America, one regional, and the other local type) of the regional type were somewhere around 650 thousand prisoners, and in that local type there are still about 250,000 prisoners, which is close to a million prisoners; this is indeed an extremely large number for the maintenance of these criminal and correctional institutions, and in that case there cannot be a word about the achievement of any of those three goals which are intended to be achieved by saying the prison sentence. That is why I urge you to consider these provisions on eradicating Article 8 from our amendment, but also from the amendment to the SRS, extremely seriously and to accept them, so that we do not really set fire to a legal galamitias, even greater than it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28353	The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Golub Rajic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28354	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has tabled an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Criminal Law of the SRJ. Article 9 reads: "In Article 114, the words "five years" are replaced by the words "seven years". "The government has defined, in its explanation of the proposed solution, that Article 9 should be changed in order to sharpen criminal penalties that presently pose an increased social danger, given the number of crimes committed. First of all, it needs to be defined, because when you say "at this moment", it's a short period of time -- is it meant for a month in the course of this year or for a period of extraordinary measures? So we need to know exactly what moment it refers to, so that we don't be changing, supplementing and amending that law again. Thus, when it is defined as an increased social danger, it is again a question of what is a social danger -- whether it is organised crime, the mafia, the railway between the authorities and the mafia, whether these are problems in the judiciary and judicial solutions and judicial proceedings that have not been done in good time, whether these are health problems, or whether political opponents are a social hazard. Obviously, political opponents are just a social hazard to the current government. This government, unfortunately, only knows that it threatens sanctions, by increasing some existing solutions, whether they're fines or other penalties. Representatives of the SRS would always accept that if it were appropriate for all other MPs. If the Administrative Board is trying to regulate the working relations of MPs, I would ask the chairman to look at the third row, where the representatives of the Democratic Party sit, where you have six cards, and you do not have any MPs. I ask you to look on both sides and respond adequately. As regards the amendment itself to Article 9, the title of Chapter 15 and Article 114 are amended and read as follows: "Crime acts against constitutional arrangements and security of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia". First of all, it's just an attack on the constitutional order, in Article 114. Article 114 reads, "Whoever tries to use force or threat the use of force to change the constitutional arrangement of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia or to overthrow the highest state authorities will be punished by a prison of at least seven years." As for changing constitutional arrangements by violent means, the SRS has no objection to increasing sanctions. I will remind you that Minister Batic and the MPs of his parliamentary club were for independent Serbia and tried in every way possible to... (President: Please return to the topic, it has nothing to do with the topic. I don't know what it's all about. The chairman, in addition to chewing gum, you might as well listen a little. It says "the state union of Serbia-Montenegro", and the constitution says "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". If the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia no longer exists, then how can the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia stand in the Constitution, if amended -- the Serbia-Montenegro community. So the law has defined these things differently. I ask you to really pay attention to this, because it was your MPs who participated in the change, and now they are trying to change the Constitution and that Yugoslavia no longer exists, but some community of Serbia-Montenegro. However, you need a little more attention to address all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28355	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28356	We tried to convince Mr Batic yesterday that it is necessary, necessary, I don't know what word more to use, the intervention of the promoter with regard to all the crimes in Chapter 15 of the Federal Criminal Code, for one simple reason why this head today has the title - Criminal acts against constitutional order and security of the SRJ. The title must change, because of these words - SRJ. But the change of those words is not mere spelling, so where is the SRJ to stand the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, for the simple reason that criminal law is, according to the Constitutional Charter, both materially and procedurally given to the Member States. Then the question arises -- if the alliance of states, the state community is protected well, who protects it, which protects it, and is theoretically possible for us in Serbia to protect the state union in this way, and for those in Montenegro in a completely different way and for them to have a completely different view of what social value is protected by this or similar head, regardless of the title, but if it is directed to the protection of constitutional order. So it's not about grammar, it's not about spelling, it's about the essential thing. Those who wrote the agreement, who wrote the Constitutional Charter, defined where criminal legislation is, and had to say what was the protected good in the matter of the alliance. That's the first problem. The second problem is in the text of an existing member. We'll all agree that there are sanctioned verbal delinquents in that chapter of the law. This particular crime Mr Cvetanovic tried to inform you about, to convince you, is called an attack on the constitutional arrangement. It sanctions the attempt and says, "Who tries to use force or threaten the use of force changes the constitutional arrangement of the SRJ." Where is the constitutional arrangement of the Republic of Serbia? He's gone, no one's protecting him, and we're passing Republic law, as if the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia doesn't matter. This provision and Chapter 15 were applied throughout the territory of the former SFRY, because such a constitutional arrangement was, so that through the protection of the SFRY every republic within that Federation was protected. Things have changed in the meantime, what's protected good has changed, the potential perpetrator of the crime has changed. Some members of this head say, "Citizen of the SRJ." If we translate that, it's a citizen of the state community. If we go wider, it is a citizen of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia. Some of the provisions say "who." So, a stranger can do it, but we don't know what's being protected. This chapter had to change, not only the termologically, it had to be changed, and in terms of being a criminal act, the elements of a crime, who was the perpetrator, who was the potential perpetrator...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28357	Five minutes. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Ljubojevic submitted an amendment proposing that Article 9a be added after article 9. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojević, submitr of the amendment to Article 9. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28358	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by adopting amendments to Article 1 and supplementing the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's Criminal Law, which has practically been renamed this law to the basic criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, the Proposer has accepted, in some ways, the previous amendment and amendments which I am now explaining on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, i.e. the amendment to which we add Article 9a, which concerns Article 115. The criminal law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which does not affect that part of the provisions proposed by these amendments and amendments to the law, therefore to criminal provisions, i.e. to increase the prison sentence for certain crimes. With this amendment and a number of amendments rejected by the Committee on Justice and Administration, the essence of this law is changed, but in the direction that it accurately identifies certain perpetrators of criminal offences, i.e. to identify and specify what is being defended by this law. Chapter 15, which contains Article 115, on which I submitted the amendment, bears the term "criminal acts against constitutional arrangements and security of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". The question arises whether we at this federal level today or at the level of the state community have a constitutional arrangement? If we take the Constitutional Charter to replace the constitution, that it is a constitutional arrangement, we must specify which states - the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, because we can come to a situation that if such a law remains in legal traffic, no one will potentially be able to break this law, or will not come under the influence of this law. If you don't know, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has been gone for over a month. So this law has nothing to protect. On the other hand, we have here in several members of the "Citizen of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia", in Article 116. "the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia", in article 118, again "a citizen of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia". We can get into the situation that we talked about when they were on the agenda to amend the Public Prosecutor's Law and we touched the judiciary a little bit, to leave a wide space of interpretation for legal holders. If criminal charges are filed against citizens of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or if someone tried to violently change the constitutional arrangement of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the judge can interpret that it was simply not possible, because the constitutional arrangement of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not exist, or a citizen of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia does not exist. Also, in one part of this Chapter 15, the "President of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia", "President of the Council of the Federal Assembly", "President of the Federal Government", is mentioned. The holders of such functions no longer exist, so we don't have a president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we don't have a president of the Federal Assembly and we don't have a president of the Federal Government. So, this Article 122, we are practically not protecting anyone, or if someone offends or attacks a number of persons, namely the President of the State Community, the President of the National Assembly, he will be prosecuted under some ordinary criminal law, and not by this criminal law which is as it is and which applied to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I therefore believe that this amendment, which was tabled by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, should also be adopted and that the Committee on Justice and Administration should, during the debate, ambush and adopt another number of amendments, namely that I propose one number of amendments, in order to make this law meaningful and comprehensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28359	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28360	And with this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the promoter that he had to go far more seriously to change this basic criminal law, as he now called it. It's about Article 115 of Chapter 15. The federal law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and it is a criminal offence called the recognition of capitulation and occupation. The position of the first member begins with the words "Citizen SRJ" and here is the first problem for the judge, who could not interpret who this refers to. If you look at the Constitutional Charter, if you look at other documents that have been adopted over the past month and a half, documents that claim to be a constitution, you will see that there is no clear notion of whether or not such a citizen exists or is going to some broader interpretation that they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro, which may be problematic in applying this particular member. The article says -- which signs or acknowledges the capitulation or individual part of it, will be sentenced by a prison of at least ten years or a 40-year sentence. From this second sentence, you can see it was a death sentence. So one very serious crime - capitulation and recognition of occupation. If the proposer remains an opinion, according to the theory of limited sovereignty, that the state does not have in mind the sovereignty of the full extent of protection of the Supreme and the only authority in the territory of the State, but is already going towards some integrations, then because of you, you have to change this member for a simple reason which, if this member remains, someone notices that what is happening in Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedji looks like one act and one action described in Article 115, which could mean that someone has given up the works of sovereign territory. On one occasion, I'm trying to prove to you how serious this chapter of the Law and this criminal act is, and unless this is specific, be assured that it would not be good for everyone to apply it in their own way and that the acts of capitulation and occupation are interpreted in some particular way, because many people would come under the influence of this member, and I don't want that to happen, but I want this to be specified and regulated. If you consider this a criminal offence unnecessary, get him out of the Criminal Code, he shouldn't be standing here. If you feel it is necessary, and that the issue of occupation and capitulation in the conditions of approximation should be given some other meaning - define it, because according to this, many are in the area of criminal responsibility, and what public prosecutors do not initiate, it is another problem which I hope will be resolved in a few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28361	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28362	In front of the Serbian Radical Party MPs' club, I submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. "Whoever, in the intention of jeopardising the constitutional arrangement and security of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, deprives the life of the president of Serbia-Montenegro, the president of the Serbian-Montenegro Parliament, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, will be sentenced by a minimum of 12 years." The explanation - the degree of state interventionism in social life is different, given that the state is materialising organised violence and each of its intervention reduces the possibility and extent of free human activity. This in any case raises the question of the degree of social justification of the state and the eligibility of its apparatus of force. Through the judicial system of states, it implements the principle of constitutionality and legality as the basis for the overall political system and the most modern expression of the rule of law principle as the basis of the legal order. It involves establishing and respecting a hierarchy of general legal acts that already have different legal powers. This is also motivated by the need to ensure the full legal certainty of all natural and legal persons as entities of legal traffic. The principle of constitutionality and legality is primarily a political principle because, without adequate political will, a state with a modern legal order cannot be created, based primarily on party respect for political freedoms and personal rights of man and citizen. The police state does not respect the principles of the previous general sanctioning of specific infringements of neither the primal value of civil rights nor human freedoms in relation to the existing normal order. They apply violence to those who belong to different political insinuators, ideological insinuators and party opponents. There is no legal certainty for citizens, so political life is based on fear, maximum manipulation, systematic suspicion, stalking and demonstration. Article 10 is based on the old law and Article 122. You actually apply the laws of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia that you buried on 4 March 2003, i.e. Is it possible that the legislator did not notice that these crimes are against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which is no longer present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28363	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28364	This crime has a name - the murder of a representative of the highest state authorities. The government as a bill promoter suggested only a change in the level of punishment, from 10 years to 12 years, that it be a minimum prison sentence. We accept that. That's the change we accept. We ask that, in the context of the change of that member, the government goes to the end, because here is what the article says, the original text says: "Who in the intention of jeopardising constitutional order or security the SRJ deprives the life of the President of the SRJ, the President of the Council of the United States."... and the Federal Assembly no longer exists, there is no bigger, and further "the President of the Federal Government", which is now the President of the Council of Ministers, the President of the State Community, and "the President of the Republic or the President of the Assembly or the Government of the Republic, will be sentenced by imprisonment for at least 10 years or 40 years". Now it's been changed to -12 years or prison of 40 years. The SRS suggests that both these state officials and representatives of the highest state bodies, as particularly protected goods, agree with the emerging situation. We are simply surprised, since 12 March, the state of emergency has been introduced, contrary to the Constitution, in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia and in the government's proposal for the introduction of this situation and in decision v.d. The president of the Republic of Serbia says that the assassination, the murder, was a shooting at the state and, if so, why did this government not completely change this member. She didn't forget that there were no more government officials, some state authorities, so she accepted that she was still what she didn't exist. It just surprises us. If a full review of criminal law is carried out by emergency procedure in order to care for the way in which the shooter was shot in the country and to stand in the way of organised crime, then the government must specifically tell us why it did not fully arrange Article 122, which is an intervention only from 10 years to 12 years old. We accept it from 10 to 12 years of age, or 40 years of age, but why continue to protect some who do not exist. The President of the Greater Republic, the President of the Greater Citizens, the President of the Federal Government, no longer exists. Was it hard to reconcile, if nothing else, that government, in the form of a pedestal to its previous president, harmonize the entire member? The government has defined itself as media, so everyone is conducting investigations in the media; it is better that they have agreed on this member in order to make it simpler and easier to apply. By harmonising this member and these terms, we see what the protected values are. It's not enough just: wherever there were five, write seven, where there was 10, write 12, where there was one write three, and where there was 15, write 40. It's not a change of law, it's just a threat. There's your drink to the president, you're sorry for him, and you didn't want to change the member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28365	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28366	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 relating to Article 123 of the existing Criminal Code of the SRJ. Article 123 is directly related to Article 122, i.e. one logical extension of Article 122. Let me remind you, Mr Krasic was just talking about article 122. The article defines protected values under this criminal law, which are the president of the SRJ, the president of the Federal Assembly, the president of the federal government, the President of the Republic, the Serbian Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 122 defines a penalty for the lack of life of one of those persons, and Article 123, which I have submitted to the amendment, is a minimum sentence, a sanction for the kidnapping of one of those persons or a person close to him or the execution of any other violence against those persons. I have several objections to these members this way to define these sanctions. The first remark is the one that has already been heard about several previous members, perhaps formal, but is essentially not formal -- there is still a reference here to SRJ, to something that does not exist. Namely, if this is interpreted consistently, this law protects Mr. Vojislav Kostunica, Mr. Dragisa Pesic, and does not protect Mr. Svetozar Marovic or any other person who now has some functions on that level. I should, and I don't think it was a big problem for this to be reconciled to termologically so as not to pull this SRJ clause anymore, since that country is no longer there. My second objection refers to the term - a close person. It's just too often here defined -- if a kidnapping or violence is committed to a close person. What does a close person mean and who belongs to that group of close individuals with these protected personalities defined in Article 122? I think it was necessary to define precisely what belonged to that group of close-minded people. I have tried this amendment in some way to correct it, so in the amendment, I said it were members of the family household, which is much more specific than what was given in the proposal for this law, that is, in Article 123. The next remark refers to this term - kidnapping or other violence. The kidnapping is clear, but other violence has been over-conformed again, and yet it's not clear what it's all about. The kidnapping and many other violence, as it says here, have already been sanctioned by other members of the Criminal Code. It remains unclear here whether these faces are also protected from verbal deliction. For example, if one of these individuals defined in Article 122 comes to a public rally tomorrow in some pre-election campaign, and there were such cases in 2000, and at this public gathering, a people who are dissatisfied with his exposure to the target, let's say, the eggs, whether it will be characterized as violence and whether those who do so will bear the sanctions prescribed here, these amendments to the law. Those sanctions shall be at least three years under this proposal. I'd like to ask the promoter to think about this a little bit, to correct this. Such imprecise formulations can only be introduced into dictatorship and cannot contribute to the democratisation of society.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28367	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28368	The logical consequence of the change in Articles 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12 is this illogicality pointed out by Mr Jovanovic. Such a broad formulation of the crime that has the title - violence against the representative of the highest state body, which essentially says in the opening sentence, if this violence is directed towards a violation of the constitutional order. It is another important element of this crime, the intention of endangering the kidnapping and violence of a member of the family of the highest state official. We are still about to retain as a minimum penalty what already exists in the law, not to increase it, for the simple reason that such a formulation that is retained allows arbitrary interpretation. If the media prepares the ground, it is hard for any judge to get into the evidence assessment and to freely judge such cases. Of course, in this way, I don't want to devalue the real danger of kidnapping a child, a mother, a woman, etc. The cause and motive of violations of constitutional order. Of course, in that part, I accept a member like this. There is a possible abuse, and you yourself know, unfortunately, we had several tragic events in 2001 and 2002; general Bosko Buha was killed outside the "Yugoslavija" hotel. It was immediately that night: it was shooting in the state. Of course, he's not a functionary covered by this article, but I'm saying this because of the qualifications and the fact that it's already done, right now everything is said, what's the background, what's the intention, etc. These are some arbitrary qualifications. They can be so arbitrary, when it comes to family household members of a government official, that even some harmless argument can be violence. If the child of the Prime Minister or the president of the National Assembly has problems at school, don't give God some business, so he comes into conflict with someone, this kidnapping or some kind of violence happens, here's a minimum sentence of three years. That's not even the purpose of this article, but there is a possibility of very easy abuse. Because there is a possibility of such abuse we are in order to maintain a minimum sentence of one year. It would be much better if this member were divided into several members, depending on the protected goods. As soon as there is an attitude 2 in that article that even goes with the release of responsibility, if a person who has committed violence or kidnapping a doorman who has been kidnapped and allows the case to be resolved. If that is the case in Section 2, it is not justified to raise the minimum penalty in attitude 1. to three years. It may be justified in the case of the kidnapping of the President of the Republic, but in the event of the abduction of a member of the family household, it could not be justified. Simply, the position of the 2nd member devalues what the Government proposes to change in attitude 1. That had to be taken care of. I know that in this situation, anger, hatred, euphoria, and in other emotional states the need to change something has been imposed. If it changes, let it have its own reasonable limit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28369	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 12, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28370	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was necessary that Minister Vladan Batic be present today when we continued the debate on the bill's amendment, now with the amendment adopted on 1st Parliament member Zoran Krasic, to be renamed to the basic criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, because all this further does not make sense without accepting and this amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and others who follow, who normally have to follow the amendment of MP Zoran Krasic. Here's the thing. The amendment that I submitted to Article 12, or 124 of the existing Law, treats armed rebellion. We, the MPs of the SRS, have accepted, in terms of the rigorousness of the prison sentence and its increase, this is the government's proposal. So, Article 124 says - who participates in an armed rebellion that is headed for the endangerment of the constitutional arrangement or security of the SRJ... So that's necessary to change, because you wanted a new state union, you changed the name of that new state community, you adopted so-called. Constitutional charter. Here it is necessary for the "SRJ" to change into "the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia", as this is now the basic criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. A further member says, 1st position -- he'll be punished by prison (he who participates in armed rebellion) at least, there were three, now it's five years. We accepted that. A second member's stance says -- the organiser or ringleader of the rebellion will be punished by a minimum of five, or seven years now, which the SRS also accepted. For us, it is absolutely unacceptable that many others per state, society and people of dangerous crimes are not covered by this article that speaks of armed rebellion. That's the problem we faced when it came to the case of one of the vice-presidents of the Republic government, who, though, was resolved by that function, but also because of many things, especially because of one vote that decides, and by a close majority, so-called. a new assembly of the state community. It's about Momcil Perisic and the already famous affair, when he joined the spy network at the Charac motel as Deputy Prime Minister. It is all closely linked to the further dangers that threaten the Serbian people and the country in general. It's about spying. Why this member did not include spying and why he did not punish the perpetrators of such an act, such as the country's betrayal and the state's secret; it is precisely in the society of not only one of the leading CIA people for the Balkans, but also the famous Nejbor sectarian, Radio Momcilo Perisic. You cannot amnesty your coalition partners; and the question is whether he is your coalition partner, because his party broke down, and here we have some who claim that he is no longer the legitimate representative of that party, who is a participant of your coalition. You cannot in such a way convince the citizens of Serbia by orchestrating a media campaign to go to the end of the fight against organised crime, and that the protected witness is one of the leading and greatest criminals, whom we first mentioned from this pay phone, Ljubisa Buha called Chume, and many of you have called him Mr. Chume, the ringleader and organizer of a criminal gang who broke off as recently as you have now arrested and blamed for the murder of Zoran Djindjic. You can't amnesty him out of responsibility. It's just that justice has to come to everyone. He cannot selectively apply himself and must know who he is in this country who is ready to go to the end to serve his employers, especially those from the West, to commit treason to the country, to deal with various spy affairs. We will go to the end to be severely punished, and when we are in opportunity, we will change the law by adding these acts that are most dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28371	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28372	It's a criminal act of armed rebellion and usually people who are not well-intentioned interpreting this act as if it were something the government wrote to protect itself. It's not a crime, and that's how the government doesn't want to protect itself. At least none of the authorities put it for themselves, but because the consequences of the citizens, the citizens of one country are heavy, catastrophic, incomparably more difficult than any other individual criminal act that can be done by one natural person. So, according to its consequences, this act is extremely dangerous and we accept the government's proposal to correct the minimum prison sentence prescribed for this act. So, we fully support this tightening and increase in prison sentences, except for a few crimes where we really feel it is necessary to make the extent of minimum and maximum punishment, but I think that by our principled view of the single sentence for the strike, we have shown that we simply accept one firmer criminal policy, if we can impose it through the court and through court practice. The same problem arises again, which cannot define what is protected well, whether it is security and constitutional arrangement of the state union, whether it is security and regulation of the Republic of Serbia. Because, again, I must say, this is a Republic law and it is not appropriate to practice so far so far that the Republic of Macedonia protects something that is an association with its legislation. I guess this association has its instruments, its specific values and special means of protecting these values. Perhaps when writing the Constitutional Charter it was necessary for this head and this group of criminal acts to be kept at that level of the state community because of the common social value and protected goods. Since it wasn't done, then there's confusion and there's a practice, and it's gonna follow us. Not only with this crime, but with a large number of crimes in this head, there's a very long time to stand over our heads like the sword of that law of amnesty, because, according to this chapter of Criminal Law, only the Cypriot terrorists were practically in prison, only they were tried. They've experienced two amnestys and some pardons. Data are pardons to them, although there was no positive proposal from the federal minister of justice, simply under pressure; the most radical terrorists, and they can be classified as a group of terrorists, because by definition these acts belong to terrorism in a broader sense of the meaning of that word. So these laws of amnesty and these individual pardons stand over our heads and probably the promoter shouldn't have touched these crimes, because he got the impression that it was a restricted zone. Other countries in Europe protect themselves, protect their constitutional arrangements, protect their security and have similar provisions. Their punishments are far more rigorous than ours because they probably have an idea of what a state is, what civil society is and what values should be protected, they know how important sovereignty is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28373	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28374	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 13 of this criminal code. In Article 13(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill is amended and it reads: Article 136, point 1 of the word "at least three years" is replaced by the words "three to ten years". If a proposal on which only a minimum sentence is accepted, many crimes could be sentenced to 40 years in prison. This law is not systematic and as such suffered constant changes. According to your comments, this law will suffer certain codifications, and the main comment is that the name of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia should be deleted and that you call this law a general law, which will lead to legal illogicality and confusion with the judicial authorities. It's like if I were a forester, I'd plant the seedlings upside down. So all laws will be brought to Serbia-Montenegro's Constitutional Charter. Reports from your ministries, mostly referring to the Ministry of the Interior, suggest that the ministry is extremely active and works and that it has the slightest increase in crime according to European standards. It's just a comment for you, and now this law needs to be corrected urgently due to an increased percentage of crime in our country. Strange games with laws. The mentors probably didn't give you a detailed insight into the title, but you were just working out their settings in detail on our legal terms. You're taking us back in the 1950s, so you're taking a step back, not a step forward. It's obvious and visible from all your legal projects. The amendment to Article 13 of this law, which I have proposed in front of the Serbian Radical Party, will certainly not be adopted. If, let it remain a written clue, and that makes us a satisfaction. Shouldn't we just shut up about what you're doing? We're not gonna shut up. From the means of information, we are left with this assembly speaker and the records of the stenographers. It's funny, a little bit and incomprehensible, the attitude of your majority to unite all these laws. It's all a group can do that's in a hurry. Although the SRS advocates appropriate penalties for serious crimes, this law that you today pass and by not accepting this amendment shows your anger over increasing crimes since you've been in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28375	There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28376	It's a crime of association for hostile action. It has one stupid formulation, long ago there's an objection that this act may not exist as such, maybe it should suffer some changes. I do not want to refer to that part of the objection and objections, let the theory discuss and future legislators, but what we have objected to concerns height, or length of measure. We believe that minimum and maximum punishment should be prescribed, and in that sense we have also filed an amendment, and in particular this applies to paragraph 1, that the sentence is three to ten years in prison. In order to understand the gravity of this crime, I have to say that both laws on amnesty, one adopted in 2000, and the other in 2001, covered this very crime, because it was so widely set that under hostile action could mean anything and everything. However, there is also a danger of misreading, in terms of euphoria, this provision. Well, I'll read the first position that says, "Who creates a conspiracy, gang, group or other person association to commit the crimes referred to in Articles 114 to 119, pages 2, 120 to 123, 125 to 127, and Article 132 of this law, will be punished by imprisonment from one to ten years." Of course, the government suggested that this change, we also suggested that this scope be appropriate. It may be a foolish formulation of this article, but this member, reshape, we need it if we want to return or establish sovereignty in our territory, if we want to decide our sovereign rights. If by any chance we had been persistent in the near and distant past in applying this chapter of law, I don't think we would be in this situation today, in a situation of total destruction, in a situation where most people don't even know the limits of their country, most of them don't know what this system of social values is, because it's simply all disturbed, and those who have dealt with terrorism and violent secession of part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia have been rewarded by, allegedly, the international community. Recently, we had the opportunity to hear on a TV show that the thinking was, in 1999, that no Serb remains in Kosovo and Metohija, so that these 120,000 were practically past, others, resisting the international community; everything and everything they resisted, but they showed that they wanted to live on their own doorstep, they don't want to get back together with something that someone came up with. And those who have contributed to this, who have done hostile action and hostile propaganda, have released this power into two stages.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28377	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28378	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 14. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code of the SRJ, and I ask that it be changed, and then it reads, "Article 137(1) of the word "at least three years" is replaced by "three to ten years". If a proposal on which there is only minimum punishment was accepted, many crimes could face 40 years in prison. The legislator who knows which way he proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a set of judicial laws, extremely vague and unarranged, which in themselves represent evidence that you did not seriously deal with this very important business, or someone was hastening. Criminal legislation for the promoter wasn't a serious job, so he was taken so well and so presented to us. If you had taken this seriously, you could have changed the term SRJ, which your wise policy does not have. It is discriminatory and vague, inaccurate maximum punishment. In the opinion of us, Serbian radicals, it is rational to determine exactly the minimum and maximum penalty. Why exactly did you determine only the minimum penalty, whether space was left for possible abuse, and your intrepidness and intrepidity depended on the fate of the people. Does 40 years in prison also mean life in prison? It is illusory to expect you to show rationality and expertise at least in the area of criminal law. Since you DOS are the best publishers of the worst possible government Serbia has ever had through its history, I have no illusion that my amendment will properly understand and possibly vote for it. You have so far shown a great deal of success in the sphere of deception, burning and destruction, etc., and building and construction is not working out for you, because you and your ideology are the real masters of destruction. With a lot of optimism we can expect new proposals and additions to the Criminal Code soon, it's just a question of how much longer you'll have, because time is not your best ally. You gentlemen are in a teat, your time is slowly running out, you've shown what you knew, and there's every chance that the area of criminal law will be regulated by the SRS after an emergency election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28379	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28380	With this amendment, we propose that the sentence be settled and that it be between three and ten years old. But Article 137 regulates a crime that has the title - providing assistance to the perpetrator after a crime has been committed. This is a special form of complicity, i.e. helping after one of these serious crimes has been committed from chapter 15. In the essence of this crime is the following - whoever commits a criminal offence from Articles 114 to 129 and Articles 132 to 136, as well as the members of 138 and 139 of this law hides, gives him shelter, food, material, money or other means, serves him to maintain a relationship, takes actions designed to disrupt the detection or capture of the perpetrator, or otherwise provides him with help, will be punished by imprisonment - the law stands from one to ten years, the government suggests at least three, we say - three to ten years. You see, the possible actions of committing this crime are, in practice, the concealment of the perpetrator of the crime, the concealment of organised groups that are working to endanger the constitutional arrangement and the security of our state, regardless of how we define it, whether it is the federal republic, the state union or the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of this member of the law, then we need to go back a little bit to our close past and say that there were also those acts of enabling organised groups to be created by criminally responsible individuals from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. You know those famous arms transfers from this territory to Kosovo and Metohija, especially from the Republic of Montenegro, without talking about what came from abroad, like Albania, etc. This crime must exist. You know, it's not enough that there's only a rule of law, but that law has to be applied so that organized groups of terrorists and all those who have significantly threatened constitutional regulation and security, as well as all those who have helped these people after crimes, are brought to justice. I expect that in this cleanup of the total galatias, generally observed, crime in Serbia, these examples of criminal acts of assistance following terrorist attacks are removed. If this euphoria is directed only at organized crime, as one variant of the crime group and left out terrorists and others, then we've done a bad job. I have to remind myself that those two amnesties and those individual pardons stand over our heads all the time. We need to get rid of it and start law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28381	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28382	This member is being punished for preparing a crime. So it's not an individual crime, as prescribed, but it's said -- whoever prepares any of these crimes in Chapter 15; it's self-preparation that's an independent crime for which sanctions are prescribed from one to 10 years. The government has suggested that this change, that the sentence be at least three years in prison, and we, with our amendment, follow the tightening of criminal sanctions and suggest that it be between three and 15 years. So we define the range of prison sentences for this crime, for one who prepares to commit crimes; preparation is when several persons participate in a criminal act referred to in Article 18(3). Criminal law, and then there are concrete crimes in this head. This member originally suffered a change in the sanctions, as it prescribed far more serious sanctions in the 1977 law. We, about this way, return that sanction, determine that upper and lower limit, in which range the prison sentence can move. We believe that the preparation of these crimes against constitutional order and security is an independent crime, also a dangerous crime, because it is about preparing for the destruction of something called state, regardless of whether it is national, but in any case, the state as one hat under which all citizens are, one civil society, where people exercise their human rights, for which we advocate and which, hopefully, this constitution should guarantee; not only to guarantee them on paper, but to guarantee their fulfillment, or respect for human rights, and above all, that is bound by the state. So the preparation of these crimes is that danger serves the penalty, because it prepares the so-called. logistics for something that can be and how bloody in every country. That is why we propose that these penalties be limited, and we fully support this idea that minimum punishment should be increased. I have to say, it's a little strange that the pronoun of this change should be the one who passed the laws on amnesty. It's a little weird, we doubt honesty. If someone pardoned the perpetrators of these crimes, and now increases the penalty for preparing those crimes, where is the consistency, my people? Someone in politics needs to be consistent. If he thought about the need to increase his sentence, then he couldn't amnesty, he couldn't pardon. That's illogical. For those parts, amnesty is given, pardons are given, it's been a year, and now, turkey dots, don't apply, let's increase the fines. When the government proposes that a certain member of the Criminal Law increase the fine, sentence or impose some other sanctions, the government clearly tells us which policy course it is on. We support this course, but we ask the question -- did it take the government two and a half years to realize that she was wrong when she gave the amnesty, when she gave the pardon?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28383	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Olgica Kircanski, Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Dragan Milentijevic and Slavica Tatomir together submitted an amendment proposing that Article 15a be added after Article 15a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, People's MP, Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28384	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I apologize in advance for not barbarizing and not ruling a lock-up legal dictionary. We were here today, yesterday and the day before yesterday, having the opportunity to enjoy the extraordinary presentations of this dictionary. I will try very simply, directly and precisely to explain my amendment to you and to draw your attention once again to the necessity of accepting this amendment, in line with everything that surrounds us and in line with everything that is really happening in our society and in the world at all. Human trafficking is one of the three most profitable organised crime jobs in the world, alongside drug trafficking and arms trafficking. I don't need to underline anything in this sentence. What's the situation with us? Most of you know very well. For two and a half years, a very serious and very organized campaign has been under way in our country. In 2000, we established a Yugoslav anti-trafficking team, and since April 2001 there has been a republican anti-trafficking team. It is precisely because of inadequate legal regulation, that is, because the crime - human trafficking does not exist at all in our criminal law, that there are major problems in the field, in combating, disabling and punishing the organisers, people who participate, who are intermediaries and who are well-rich in this business. There are a large number of international documents containing provisions relevant to the definition of the criminal act of human trafficking. The United Nations Regulation on the protection of the rights of foreign migrants, the protection of women's human rights, is numerous. I'll just remind you of some. At a meeting of the Council of Europe in January 2002, an official declaration on women's trafficking was adopted, which means that no country can become a member of the European Union unless it adequately responds to this problem in relation to the law and on the protection of victims and prevention. All laws should be amended and complemented in accordance with the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocol on Human Beings Trade, which our country signed in Palermo in 2000. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible and the Committee on Justice has not adopted this amendment. In the opening part of Mr. Minister, we heard that only one amendment was accepted, and the government's report with an explanation why our amendment was not accepted was not received in writing. I serve only part of the reasoning of a member of the government, i.e. Deputy Minister, who was present on the Justice Committee and who said that the amendment is not accepted, because there is a member of the Criminal Law 155, which is called "Finding a slave relationship and carrying a person in a slave relationship" that covers this area. All forms of occurrence are not covered by this article. The major problems are our investigative bodies, law enforcement authorities, and judicial authorities, because not all possible details about this crime can appear and appear on the ground. The member starts with "Who, by violating international law, puts another into a slave or a similar relationship" etc. - It's normal for me to have a slave relationship in this article, like it's something that's a phenomenon that's present, and "who's breaking the rules of international law" is such a broad notion that rarely anyone will be able to cope with such a formulation. Our amendment begins with: "If by force or threat, by misleading or maintaining in error, by abuse of authority, by trust, by relations of addiction or by difficult opportunities of another" these are all situations from which it comes, such as premises, "exercise, transport, transfer, sell, surrender, buy, mediate", and in the explanation we have very detailedly highlighted all the moments and all the advantages of such a formulated criminal act of human trafficking and the lack of this formulation of criminal act, the establishment of a slave relationship and the transport of a person in a slave relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28385	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 16 on which the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28386	Article 155, which the previous speaker also spoke of - the name of the crime is "The establishment of a slave relationship and the transport of a person in a slave relationship"; the first point also mentions the purchase of a person. International rules on combating and preventing forced labour exist. They date back to that period of anti-colonial struggle, and in 1949 and 1950 documents were brought to you. If we go back, they date back to 1777, especially in America, and later it was transferred to Europe, and Europe is unique in that attitude that slavery should not be based, regardless of modern appearances. Modern forms of slavery are means of economic coercion, political and other conditions, which also exist. However, this article concerns a specific natural person involved in this business, even a group of persons involved in this business may intervene in trade. It's a good thing the government suggested that this member be changed. However, we have made one correction and we suggest that the minimum and maximum penalty be determined, not that the minimum one be determined and the maximum one can be determined, because that arbitraryity can be very dangerous. In determining the limits within which the prison sentence could move, we also took care of the penalties provided for by other crimes, which may result in the consequences of this crime. This is why when determining this range is defined from - to. There's no reason for the government not to accept this amendment, but I don't know why it insists on freedom to determine the maximum penalty, when it's already restricted in another way. I don't go into government reasons. The government can accept that, refuse and take a stand in the Supreme Court and live in court practice what is proposed here. It is important that both this discussion and this debate today on the proposal of this law and on a concrete member, we have unequivocally made it clear that a human being must not be subject to trade; a human being who has the exclusive right to remain on this planet once, and possibly the duty to torture, deserves special attention. All people who deal with politics probably 90% of their motives to do that job are in human rights and above all in preserving the right to life. The man who's the subject of the trade - the question is whether it's a human being, is it just a commodity. We can ask a similar question when it comes to the abilities of some people. I don't want to open a theme about footballers, basketball players who change clubs for money, who just agree to be a slave in part of their proclivities and abilities. But I think the government needs to accept this just so the courts can work easier, make it easier to decide, and I hope that the police finally need to bring in those Zarubices and similar ones, who trade in people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28387	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 17, to which the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stefanovic. This amendment was adopted by the Committee on Justice and Administration and by a representative of the Government, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible and I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28388	This is a very dangerous crime involving unauthorized production and the placing on the market of intoxicating drugs. We follow that idea to sharpen the penalties and our amendment is in that sense and filed, with that sentence being between five and 10 years old, and in paragraph 3 to prescribe a 40-year sentence. So I hope that all those who, on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the National Assembly, give public statements and suggest that the alleged opposition is not to sharpen criminal policy, for these past two or three days we have convinced (as well as all MPs) that the SRS has even gone a little further than the Government - where it has been six months, we have proposed a year. Here, in this very dangerous crime that destroys everything, the consequences are severe by the psyche, family, individual, normal judgment, affecting the system of social values, we suggest that punishment be prescribed which, by our assessment, is quite difficult, but also adequate for the work. I have to say, until 15 years ago, we didn't have any drug addicts in prison. They were usually placed in special facilities, where they supported these security measures, but over the past 15 years, there has been a change in our criminal sanctions institutions. A growing number of people are there and an increasing number of convicts continue to enjoy drugs in the penitentiary. This sentence may not have much to do with a specific member, but it is widely observed, in terms of production, distribution and the consequences caused by the use of these intoxicating agents. I think we rightly need to think about that those people who support a prison sentence, and with a junkie, he's both a salesman and a producer and a user, and what Mr. Batic said yesterday, he's wrong about why those conditional judgments are going. They go to parole because the court is in a lot of trouble, because of these provisions of our criminal law, that they don't know what the amount of drugs for the personal use of the drug addicts who were brought in and whether that amount is necessary, or some optimal amount with which he is legitimateized to put on the market, a third person. There's a real problem here. That amendment that was filed, I think it's accepted, and if it's not accepted, it should be accepted, only possession of these intoxicating assets should be a crime. I know that in parallel with what I say, the domestic and conservative part of Serbia pushes, there is this advanced part of Serbia that even collects some signatures to legalize so-called. poor drugs, etc. I think it would be necessary in the National Assembly to open a special debate on the matter, so that both the Assembly and the MPs, and in this way, in an indirect and public opinion, share those who are for legalisation, as well as those who are for a harsh punishment. I'm sure when we talk about possession we enter part of human rights, but there are international documents that say that the user of these intoxicating drugs can be deprived of freedom, we pointed out in that law on the prevention of organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28389	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28390	This is a criminal offense to allow the use of intoxicating drugs. "Who leads another to the use of intoxicating drugs or gives him intoxicating drugs that he or she enjoys, or puts the room at his disposal for the use of intoxicating drugs or otherwise allows another to enjoy intoxicating drugs, he will be punished by imprisonment from three months to five years." We ask that the following attitude be changed, which says: "If the work of the 1st article is done to the minor or to several persons or has caused particularly serious consequences, the perpetrator will be punished by prison from one to 10 years". We say, three to 10 years at least. So, those who poison our children, and I guess there are a lot of parents here, I guess they're communicating with their children, our schoolyards are full of syringes, there's a drug dealer in every school yard, there's no help here, no help, no help, no help, no help, the family's been experiencing their tectonic disorder for the last 15 years. This alleged democratisation and freedom of mind, the release of everything and everything simply makes us return to some conservative waters, to return to our tradition, to save those generations, and therefore we suggest that this minimum punishment be greater, that the state take action, to clear up this evil. It's probably on its way, if it's true that a large organized group dealing with drug trafficking in prison, but, you know, it's probably the price of narcotics on the market for the last month has jumped, because there's some kind of competition. Probably some new ones showed up, whether they're Bulgarians or others, it doesn't matter. Probably the state's tracking that, too. I believe and I want to believe, if that's true, it's good that a large number of drug addicts volunteer to appear for treatment because there are no such means on the market. If that's the case, that's a good thing. But, the MUP and other institutions need to take action to apply this member in practice, that all those who poison our children end up in the place where they should end up, because we should defend ourselves against that evil and because of these children and because of our generation and to preserve the psyche and collective spirit of this people, so that we don't get involved through the freedom of mind abnormality, both through television and through other means of public information, that we simply form a system of values, that the idols of young generations are not the ones who are on the sniffing or on the needle. We have this situation. Estrada, public figures, all public talk. Before New Year's Eve, a famous five-octobar singer said, "I don't sing anywhere for New Year's Eve," and asked him why, and he says, "You know, I don't fit in." How come you don't fit in?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28391	Time and theme. We're not talking about anecdotes, are we?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28392	I'm talking about drug trafficking. He says I don't drink or sniff, so I can't get a gig.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28393	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, and the proposing representative is not present to give the final word, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. We'll make a statement about the bill. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and PURPOSE OF THE CRIME LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE (SERVES) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Lazar Marjanski, Dragoljub Stamenković, Branislav Vakić, Petar Jojic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mirčić, Natasa Jovanovic, Branislav Blažić, Sinisa Mitrović; together Olgica Kricanski, Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatović, Dragan Milentijević and Slavica Tatomir and Zivodarka Dacin. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic wrote a amendment proposing an amendment to chapter 14 of the basic text of the law. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since we have conducted a joint principled search, under which the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28394	Practically, we're on a special part of the Criminal Law now. This is a member of the bill proposed by the Government for a new criminal act - the violent taking of human organs or body parts. That was practically a big problem. It's simple, the practice made this law change and put this act as a felony. We propose changes in the respective positions of this member, in terms of the height and length of the sentence. We believe that whoever by force, threat, deception, or in another unauthorized way takes from another organ or part of the body, commits an attack on a man, on his organs; taking organs without the will of that person directly concerns his life and existence as a human being. It cannot be a punishment from one to five years, as the government has suggested, but it itself is a burden. When a man's force kidnaps something that's an integral part of him, as a human being, can't be a minimum punishment for a year. We suggest that that minimum sentence be three and maximum seven. That's the first attitude, that's the general definition or general act. In the following attitudes, we propose that a tightening of penalties be also carried out. Here's why. If part of the article in Article 1 has put the life of the person to whom an organ or part of the body has been taken, the life of a person who has been violently, unlawfully taken away from a body or body cannot be a minimum sentence for three years. We suggest that it be five years. In addition to this violence, when taken, life was at stake, and an integral part of the being of this part is a danger to life. Of course, we suggest changing attitude 3, also in terms of minimum penalties. There's a result of death. If someone violently, unlawfully takes away a man's organ or part of his body and that man dies, it's, uh, people, murder. There's no humanity here. How can there be humanity in the violent seizure of something. There's no valid reason this act in attitude 3 would lead to a classic murder. A man's life has been taken. Some unnecessary things are being written, unfortunately, in these new laws of ours. Some words that absolutely mean nothing. If the work on the subject of the perpetrator is covered by point 1 it shall not be repeated in paragraph 4. In particular, this is about attitude 5. Why would there be a particular need now for the intention to gain material benefits, if anything is violent and illegal. The material benefits and other motives and initiatives that cause something to be done absolutely are not important if we protect a person, if we protect life, if we protect the health of a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28395	Five minutes. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28396	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2, which consists of two parts. The first part refers to what counterpart Krasic said about the amendment of counterpart Blazic, that too little penalties for the violent taking of human organs or body parts were too disproportionate, but I would like to draw your attention to the second part of this amendment. This is: the name of the new crime and the new members 54b and 54v is added after Article 54a. It would say: Violent seizure and trafficking of newborns and minors. Please, really, this is something that needs to be incorporated into the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to tell you that the basic incentive for proposing this amendment was the fact that not long ago in public there was a very disturbing situation about the fact that some mothers from the maternity ward were leaving without their child. I, as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, had in my hands the act with 103 parents' signatures. They say it's not all of them. They have reason to believe that the child did not exist at the maternity home, but, unfortunately, an abuse was committed to obtaining property benefits and that the child was given, or unfortunately, hardly sold to another family. I'm not saying that a good part of the signatories doesn't have an illusion and wants his child to be alive and well, even if it was in another family. Come on, let's give it a chance to prove it. All these people and these families spoke in turn from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ms. Natasa Micic, through ministries and health and justice and, of course, no one has the authority to initiate such a procedure. The justice ministry responded, and in the signing was the deputy minister, about paraphrasing, that there was actually no member in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of which an investigative procedure could be initiated. Yesterday I spoke to Minister Batic today with Professor Hiber. They say the amendment is good and should be installed. Of course, I'm not a lawyer, I'm a medical worker, and he's supposed to suffer a legal-technical order. I really ask you to take all this into account, given the shortness of time and that this afternoon you are already planning a vote, conditionally to accept this amendment and please, colleagues, to help me with this, for the sake of all these families, with a legal-technical editorial, of course, which would be done by professional and competent persons. I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28397	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28398	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS also made clear in the draft law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia that we are the perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences. It is the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 3 or to a member of the 63rd Act that is being amended that speaks of the worst possible form of violence, which destroys one society, which leaves serious consequences for a family that survives that horror of kidnapping, imprisonment, the illegal deprivement of the freedom of another person. As counterpart Krasic said, one of the most basic motives of all of us who belong to political parties, above all us who are organized in the patriotic national political party, is the motive to preserve human rights, human freedoms and citizens, which is one of the basic principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Charter that you adopted and which is being applied back months and more days. If you look at the black chronicles, if you look at the lists through the country's criminal structures and through the crimes committed in previous years, you'll see that abductions are one of the most common crimes. When it comes to some sound names, and also famous people, it was given a much greater meaning, which in the media, which in those who deal with public affairs, but I must warn you of this terrible fact that in 2002, in many smaller towns in Serbia, these most serious crimes and abductions occurred, and even in one city in the Zlatibor County, the girls, when they went to buy something from their parents, experienced this terrible fate. Usually, these abductions were related to people who were involved or who were successful in some work. However, on the other hand, many of our daily papers, and one that boasts that the most rabid forerunners in it, publish photos of strangers who are called so and so, are from a certain city, and their family is said to be wanted, disappeared that day and that day. We had a situation, and there was a lot of talk about it in the media and in the assembly booth, that we are facing this terrible fact that in our country Serbia there are some kind of private prisons where people are illegally deprived of freedom. Because we believe that this type of violence is one of the most serious crimes, we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, this amendment requires that penalties for such acts be more rigorous. With the position of the 2nd member - if the unlawful deprivement of freedom makes the official person an abuse of his official position or authority - we have had a backlog of how many years of such cases, and unfortunately many families and those who have been killed are not through the trial, which is stalled for who knows what reasons, we could prove that they have fallen under such abuse by the official - they will be punished by prison - and the promoter stands from six months to five years, and we have placed between one and five years. So, let that lowest sentence be one year. What we are asking to change in the following position: "If a person who is unlawfully deprived of freedom has lost his life due to it, the perpetrator will be punished by a minimum prison," the proposer put "five years", and the Serbian Radical Party has been seeking seven years. These are truly minimum penalties for such serious crimes that, as I said, leave serious consequences for people who survive such torture and such horror.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28399	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28400	This article of the bill shows the indifference with which the proponent approached the amendment to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. My predecessor pointed out exactly what was proposed, which changed. We suggest that these penalties be increased practically, but I must comment. It's just that I don't get it. A crime is called illegal deprivement of freedom. According to attitude 1, anyone can be the perpetrator of that crime, Section 2. - official face. If an official wrongfully, and yet using official authority to deprive someone of liberty, the government proposes that the minimum sentence be six months. It's that someone who has a ID is less criminally responsible for the same crime than an ordinary citizen who doesn't have a ID. A whole complex of crimes, widely observed, called abuse of official powers, regardless of whether it's an excess or a classical abuse or a misappropriation of official powers, which is also an act of abuse, if there is an element of illegality, and by logic things are often present there, and even the deprivement of the freedom of a citizen, is it possible that the minimum penalty can be six months. I guess the civil servant, more widely observed, is more responsible than an ordinary citizen who commits some kind of crime. By the logic of the matter, because a civil servant has a special responsibility, he must know the rules, better to be aware of the state of human rights and the rights some persons enjoy and his mistake is far more difficult, far more dangerous. It's a higher degree of social danger, because his mistake is a message. When it moves from one party to a multilateral system, when it moves from dictatorship to democracy, one of the first measures is the law on freedom from fear. That kind of thing was in our practice, and it was just brought before with the intention of civil servants, civil officials, being brought into a state of law enforcement. Here the bill promoter tells us, by this change -- you know, it's dangerous if an official illegally deprives some freedom and it's by abuse of official office, we're going to punish him at six months. This official should receive far greater punishment for all other officials to think carefully when applying a measure, whether the measure is in accordance with the law and whether it has the elements of this criminal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28401	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28402	Article 4 The draft law refers to Article 64. Criminal law, and it's a crime of kidnapping. If the number of abductions is on the rise, it's a new crime in the last 10 years, it's been prescribed before, but it wasn't so often. We also propose to change those parts of the sanctions provisions, to increase sanctions, to increase prison sentences. We suggest that it be a more difficult measure than the Government has suggested, and to see why it is necessary for it to be a longer term prison sentence, here I will only quote what is already there: "Whoever, by force, by threat, by deception, or by other means leads or by keeping a person, with the intention of not letting him go free until he or she has extorted money from him or another person (so we could hear everything and anything for a month) or any other property benefit, or that he or anyone else, coerced him to do something else, to do or to suffer, will be punished by prison... "The SRS proposes that the sentence of prison be more severe. Why -- well, it hit a man, his dignity, his life, his body. If we look at the next views of that member, where the consequences of this crime are qualified, if we want to root out abductions from our country, then not only do we have to anticipate more severe punishments, prisons, but we should apply them. You know, we can't beat crime by media war, we can't use the media war to show -- well, that's where it happens, it doesn't happen where we bathe. It doesn't work, there are health workers, watching people from the terrace take a bath, taking baths, who's friends, it's clear. Serbia is a very small country, 10 million people, so New York has more, aman. We know everything, there's nothing we can do to hide, and that's where you agree with me. Well, of course you agree, we're a small country, so if you look at it, probably 40% of the people here are cousins in some third or fourth knee. Now, since we want to root it out, give more punishment, let the punishment and the one who prepares it, and whoever helps to take it happen, clear the question of kidnapping. What's Serbia doing kidnapping, why? Now, we can say -- we don't want that crime to be with us any more, let's discuss it all the way. Who knew about the abductions, who was kidnappings, who was pulling the kidnappers out of prison, who was taking the hair off, who was there removing the evidence, who was hanging out with whom, whether the kidnappings were the basis to wash the money, whose money, how much money, who gave it to, who bought the car from, from those who were kidnapped.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28403	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28404	The SRS proposal is to tighten the threatened penalties for officials, for several reasons, especially because at this time changes and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia are being made, the criminal measures for the perpetrators of criminal offences are being tightened, but we have to make sure that at this time and what responsibility they bear and the officials, those who are interrogating already detained, or those who will be detained, because, for the abuse of their position, they have been punished so far by some minimum penalty. And of course, since there's some logic that any official who conducts an interrogation in the event of force use can no longer be treated under the existing law, punishment must be more rigorous, for several reasons. First, in order to trigger a certain effect, an effect of responsibility, and secondly, that in all this, what is happening in Serbia, all those involved in these and similar cases must take good care of what they do and how they do. And earlier on, it is known to all of us, regardless of party belonging or ideology, that there have been abuses by officials, especially in investigative procedures, and now we have another new moment, where the detention period increases to 90 days, or 270 days. And if they stay this minimum sentence, that official doesn't have to think very much, because what's his three-month sentence if he uses force during questioning. That is why we, Serbian radicals, propose to change the sentence, to increase it by one year, to extort statements followed by severe violence. It was also scheduled in the Bill's proposal of one year, and we Serbian radicals suggest it be three years. It may be somewhat unnecessary to say that this is a proportion relative to those penalties, because, to put it simply, it would be untasteful to compare it in this way now and to seek some proportion, but we still need to sharpen them, to take advantage of this opportunity to, in law, through these changes and additions, simply give some limitations, to act preventively on official persons, so that they do not abuse their functions. It's a shame that no preventive penalties are intended to be imposed for officials anywhere, especially for those who go from study to study, accuse, present data on investigations, and there's no law to punish themselves, but they've had enough of this punishment so far, we'll see how they'll be doing in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28405	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28406	Extorting the testimony is a felony, and we suggest that punishment be sharpened. Why tighten the penalties - because it is something that is forbidden not only by our criminal law but by almost all international documents concerning human rights, and about a similar provision lies in the constitutions of all republics. It's usually Head II, which is called the Declaration of Human Rights. So if violence, coercion, and otherwise extorts a statement, it's a crime. Whoever did this is guilty. We propose that the punishment be greater than what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed. How can a statement be extorted? Well, it can be tied to a suspect's radiator, or the stairs are drawn, so it's said to him: get up the stairs, if you can't climb, please sign this statement, etc. Reading those rights belonging to the suspect, at the beginning of the first sighting with law enforcement, is usually lagging behind, and following the new criminal code. Believe me, people, that a good number of people in the MUP, that so-called. a police lobby, a hook, looking for and crying out for that three-day police detention, and if they were to pass laws, they'd have had police custody for 33 years. That's a fact, we have people like that in the service, and we don't need to close our eyes in front of that fact. We've got people listening in separate rooms, extorting statements. That's our reality. It's not this one, or that previous government, that's something that's inherited, that runs through the blood flow of our police, and that part of the police that's involved in ice-colding. In order to eradicate this, in order for these people or some new one to work on lighting up crimes and who come in contact with suspects, witnesses, etc. to bring the Constitution and the law, we need to increase criminal sanctions for those persons, for ourselves, because of our children, because of friends who can be found, neither guilty nor in debt, in a very difficult situation. It doesn't even matter the criminal procedure, but it's a big insult and a violation of the dignity of a 50-60-year-old man, who someone said could be a witness, when they bring him to the station and not give a statement that fits the police, and they slap him. It's extorting testimony, to form a criminal case, to shut someone down -- it's solved, it turns paper, it goes home, it's successful in business. How this success came to pass, the soul and heart of some people know it. That's why it needs to be sanctioned. I'm simply surprised why the government didn't increase the sentence for it, especially by those who say they demonstrated and were beaten, arrested. I guess the consequences on their backs are, I guess, that pendrek that they've received for some time is a little bit more jumbled when they're in power, they're looking for something to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28407	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after article 5. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28408	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this crime belongs to a group of crimes against man and citizen's freedoms and rights. As a result, the SRS believes that the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia should tighten the fines in this chapter, since it is about the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Article 66 provides for malpractice in the ministry. "If an official in the service of another abuses, insults or treats him at all in a way that offends human dignity, he will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years." The SRS, submitting this amendment to Article 5, proposes adding Article 5a, which reads as Article 66. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia replaces a three-month sentence, in fact, to be at least one year to three years. When the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia was passed and adopted, we pointed to this illogicality and this void, because we felt that the abuse of the service was a serious crime and that the punishment could not be from three months to three years, but that this punishment should be more severe, precisely because of the protection of the good, and there is a very great social danger. As a result, I propose that the National Assembly adopt this amendment, which would sharpen the penalty, which would prevent those who are prone or who would be in a position to abuse their official position and abuse other persons and citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28409	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28410	This is another crime from Chapter 8, and these are crimes against the freedom and rights of man and citizen. It now has a new terminology, after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. Whoever brought the Constitutional Charter and worked on the Charter of Human and Minority Rights, in respect of what he did a month and a half ago, could change both the name and a large number of these crimes, according to what was written in the Charter of Human and Minority Rights. So this head is being discussed that obligation and that guarantee that every constitution provides, which is that it is forbidden to violate human rights and all acts and all acts of human rights violations are punishable, as it traditionally stands in all constitutions. This is one of those acts, malice in the service. I have to say, I don't remember this provision being applied in any particular case and that someone was responsible for this. But this work should exist. I will read, in order to see what this value is protected by this criminal act: "The official person who, in the course of the service of another abuses, insults or treats him at all in a way that offends human dignity... ". So, to protect a man's dignity. The action of committing this crime, you see, can even be an insult committed by an official, an insult the citizen suffers on the counter, when he knocks on the door of some official room to ask if his case is finished, so he gets a family list. All of this can be placed in this criminal act, and each of us is probably, if he wasn't in a situation to endure an insult, then surely some serious inconvenience that could be classified in this crime. If we want order, if we want work, if we want the responsibility of the officials, we should probably increase the penalties for the perpetrators of these crimes. That is why the SRS has also suggested that where it stands: "three months", that article of the bill is listed as "one year". The announcement of this change in the official messenger is a warning that should come to those people who can be perpetrators of this crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28411	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted an amendment, with an amendment, proposing that a new Article 6a be added after article 6. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28412	Madam President, dear colleagues, I am very sorry that no one from the government is present, or the minister, because I know that the minister would accept this amendment, so I would not be obliged to explain it now, but what is there. I'm in front of a crime - rape predicted a crime - sexual abuse, and I offered it to you. I'm so glad you're so happy to accept him with a reaction like this. So you agree with me that a crime - sexual abuse should enter our criminal law as its amendment. After your reaction I am fully aware that you are all agreed to protect the integrity of a person, dignity of a person, and that you will vote when it comes to voting this amendment, so that what is not present today will not bother me much. Clearly, it is a crime of less intensity than what is now there, which would have been behind it in some order in Criminal Law. It is a weaker intensity than existing crimes that predict the protection of morals and the protection of personality dignity. But since it's quite common and there's a crime all over the world in criminal law, I felt it was necessary to enter our criminal law as well. Of course, I must once again express my satisfaction that I have the impression that you will vote for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28413	Thank you. Natasa Milojevic, president of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28414	Dear Mrs Micic, dear colleagues, only a few sentences when it comes to the amendment of counterpart Ruzdic-Trifunovic. When we discussed amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, which we adopted last year in March, the Social Democratic Party and the Social Democrats submitted an amendment in the same text concerning this area, i.e. the criminal act of abuse. I must remind myself that a representative of the government, or minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, accepted the amendment on that occasion without the amendment being passed thanks to the vote of the uninformed and those who do not understand the problem. I am counting on this opportunity that those who were uninformed in the meantime were informed, and those who did not understand, that they understood the problem of abuse. What happened in society? There have been many cases of mistreatment that have not been properly prosecuted precisely because of the lack of a member of the Criminal Code, which treats this crime in an adequate manner. I'll give you an example that happened two weeks ago at the Pirot. A young woman was killed in Piroth on Saturday, followed by the suicide of a murderer, thanks to the fact that the authorities of the MUP did not take seriously warnings and a request for help from that young woman, who reported an act of abuse. Therefore, colleagues from the MUP will know the nature of this crime and will be able to process if this amendment is accepted. I expect, given that the Justice Committee has accepted it, that it will also be accepted by a representative of the government, and I especially expect that if we have to vote, all informed and all those who understand the problem will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28415	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, the People's MP, Živodarka Dacin, submitted the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The Parliament of the People is not present. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28416	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The bill, which is added after Article 111a, proposes a new crime called "Utilisation of Juvenile Persons for Pornography". Article 111a, which is proposed here, reads: "Who makes a photo, film or other video of a minor for making a subject of pornographic content, or sells, cracks or displays such material, or causes a minor to participate in a pornographic performance, will be punished by a prison of one to five years. If the act of Article 1 has been carried out according to a person who has not been 14 years old, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment for at least three years." The amendment provided for this position to be changed on 2nd, so that the upper limit of this sentence is introduced. I assumed that the words "at least three years" were replaced by the words "three to ten years". It doesn't make sense that most of the crimes here are determined both at the lower and upper limits of the sentence and that only the lower limit is established for this crime. I believe it is also necessary to establish the upper limit here, in order not to leave it to those who judge and make judgments to overly arbitraryly interpret and make those judgments, or penalties within broad borders. The case works, in Article 2. The proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the violent confiscation of human organs or body parts, stipulates that one who takes the threat and force of an organ or part of a body from a second prison sentence from one to five years. So, both here and in other criminal acts, the upper limits are given. So I think that for this crime too -- the exploitation of minors for pornography, in a second position, if it's a person who didn't turn 14 years old, we should introduce the upper limit, which we predicted would be ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28417	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28418	It's a new crime, and it's a good thing that finally, by installing this member, it's turned to one phenomenon, to increase the number of abnormal people. As soon as the number of abnormal and kinky people increased, then these vultures who need to satisfy this abnormality and, of course, abuse it through pornography and children. We've suggested that these prison sentences be increased. And you saw for yourself with the other attitude, just one rigorous punishment, because this act can only make an absolutely conscious face. He who uses the products of that pornography is a perverse person, but he who organizes these shootings and plays is absolutely oriented in time and space and as such completely criminally responsible, complicit and should be punished maximumly. But we didn't want to go further during the amendment intervention, except in the sanctions case. The full formulation of the first position of this member may be problematic in the application of this law. I think the government could have the strength to adapt the formulation in order to allow the court a simpler approach to this problem and a simpler application of this provision. Such a silly formulation can be counterproductive in some way to suppress the phenomenon of allowing kinkyness. I propose to the National Assembly and MPs, when they consider this amendment, to pay particular attention and to have in mind the position of the 2nd member on criminal liability and sanctions, if this work is done to children under 14 years of age. It's all about children, not older minors, not anything but classic children, it's one notebook that needs to be written, to form a personality. How will that child feel, family, friends, if on any pornographic material, whether it's installed or otherwise identified by someone in the neighborhood? I would suggest that when you decide on amendments, you accept this amendment, because we can all raise our heads to get out of this room and say that we have done something for our children, for the dignity of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28419	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Olgica Kircanski, Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Dragan Milentijevic and Slavica Tatomir together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 7a be added after Article 7. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word for it. It's a folk letter from Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28420	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I'll just for a little while, I won't overstep this time like I did last time. We have submitted the amendment in the same text to the Criminal Law of Yugoslavia and the Criminal Law of Serbia. They only repeat that human trafficking is one of the three most profitable organised crime deals besides drug trafficking and arms trafficking. In our criminal law, there is no adequate member who treats this crime, does not cover all the forms of this crime. The proposed incrimination contains all the elements of a criminal offence that are shown to us by existing knowledge and which require international documents. I'd just like so much, as an addition to the previous presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28421	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Natasa Milojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28422	Mrs. Micic, respected colleagues, when it comes to supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in a segment called trafficking in human beings, i.e. the addition of a new member who would in this case be a member of 7a. or whatever, you need to keep in mind a few things. In addition to what my colleague Kircanski has already said as an explanation, the fact is that not only in the region, but also in Southeast Europe, there is a serious action carried out by international organisations together with domestic organisations that are concerned with preventing and punishing human trafficking. There are several details that are important to those who are going to prosecute this crime or these crimes. To remind me, Minister Mihajlovic announced five key segments or a group of processes to be conducted the other day. One of those five includes the process against Zarubica and the group that dealt with human trafficking and trafficking. Yeah, it's true it's only women in this case, but the investigation will show if it's just women. I ask you to take seriously the additions of this member of the law because the additions include the punishment of those who are not directly, as it stands in the law, whether they hold a face or be in a slave relationship, those who were inciting, those who were recruiting, helped in falsifying documents, brought food, convinced girls that they would go to good work somewhere in the countries of Western Europe, those who passed through there, those who were driving cars, those who knew something about it. So the addition refers to very precise descriptions of the crimes. One more thing, it will also directly help investigations and judges to prosecute the crime in a way that is in line with international provisions. Please inform and those who understood in the meantime that they were voting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28423	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing that a new article 7a be added after article 7. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28424	Dear fellow Members of the People, I will be rational, given that I have submitted more amendments. It's about the area of environmental protection and what hasn't been treated here so far. There are plenty of people in the hall who deal with various areas of environmental protection from hobby or profession, and I will remind you that 7% of Serbia's territory is protected naturally and that this is the good that has been so developed in Serbia for the last decade that an organized ecological mafia is observed in Serbia. I'd just like to give some classic examples, or metaphors that are important to understand this problem. Namely, you are all familiar with the great "Balkan birds" affair, where only from Serbia's territory have several tows gone to Western Europe. I would like to say that one egg of white-headed soup on the Western European market is 10,000 euros, that a couple of Falcons in Vladic's Han offer 3,000 euros and I would not list further examples, but hundreds of thousands and millions of euros go to secret channels in the Western European market annually. For this reason, we wanted to apply more rigorous measures in this criminal law, and the Committee made it clear that it was the interest of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28425	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28426	Someone's throwing a break, a break, and I'm asking you to be patient to explain the amendment. In the amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law relating to the existing Article 169 paragraph 2. The SRS requires that "10 years or 40-year-old prison" be replaced by "12 years". This SRS parliamentary group consistently amends the bill's proposal in accordance with its own ideology for dissipation of a proposing who has not yet been freed of the opinion that, in one way or another, the death penalty should be returned or maintained in the legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28427	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28428	This amendment changes practically the government's proposal relating to Article 169 and these are difficult cases of robbery and robbery. Depending on the consequences, it determines the severity of the relevant crime. The SRS proposes to change, let me say, and criminal policy, although that is not a proper term, to say "10 years or 40 years in prison" by replacing the words "12 years". So, for 12 years, as a minimum sentence in case a person with imagination is deprived of life in the execution of a robbery or robbery. So this qualified form of robbery theft and robbery, which has as a direct consequence of murder, should be particularly sanctioned, should be punished far greater. We're only proposing that minimum sentence here, and the maximum need to move within those frameworks prescribed by law. In this way we prove that all those who use a gun to enter the exchange room, kill the founding officer, collect the money, should be adequately punished. All other abusers who do well, gain some property, and some benefits accept human life and the loss of human life as collateral sacrifice should be properly punished and this punishment that we propose quite corresponds to the punishment we have proposed for murder.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28429	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 15.05 hours. [[After a break.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing that a new article 13a be added after article 13. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted an amendment with an amendment suggesting that two new members 13b and 13v be added after Article 13a. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendmentr doesn't want a word. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakić. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 14. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia refers to Article 206(3) of the current law. The government suggests that if false testimony is given in criminal proceedings, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years. So far, the penalty for this crime has been a sentence of three months to five years in prison. The amendment I filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party requires that the impediment be tightened and the perpetrator be punished for a sentence of one to five years. It is true that giving false testimony can result in the release of the perpetrators and the most serious crimes. This equally applies to witnesses and experts, or other participants in criminal proceedings, but it is equally true that giving false testimony in criminal proceedings may result in condemnation of innocent persons. These days, we are busy with irresponsible statements by various state officials, government officials and the Serbian MUP, as well as officials of various Dossmanian parties and parties, without any evidence, which has the character of false statements, which fills the daily and periodical newspapers and occupys electronic media. Giving such statements in criminal proceedings may result in condemnation of innocent persons and acquittal for the real perpetrators of criminal offences. Therefore, it is the Serbian Radical Party's opinion that more severe penalties should be sanctioned for the execution of this crime in the course of criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28432	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28433	It is a pity that this intervention made by the Government as a legislator was only done when it comes to criminal proceedings. It is likely that the motives are in the current criminal proceedings and the criminal proceedings that are yet to be initiated, so it is likely that this current interest should be threatened with a greater penalty in the event of false testimony in criminal proceedings. We accept that punishment for this crime should be more severe, but we are taking the opportunity to indicate that this punishment should be more severe and when it comes to false testimony given in litigation or in any other procedure, because in all these proceedings it is most directly resolved on the rights of one man, on his interests and on what belongs to him. The problem with this crime is, among other things, that our Code of Criminal Procedure does not contain any provisions on the basis of which we could undoubtedly determine whether this crime was committed. Anyone who was present in the courtroom at one of the hearings, on the main search, could have had an extraordinary opportunity to see the judge interpret what the defendant said, dictated in the record of what the witness said and how he conveys the thoughts of the witness given before the court. In order to make sure that this crime is in place, I am sure that a quality amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure is needed, in terms of keeping stenographic notes during the main search, because what the judge dictates, believe me, in 70-80% of the cases is what the person who reached the court and gave a statement to the judges did not even mean, did not even say. The defendant does not have the right to dictate his statement on the record, but, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, he tells the judge, and the judge conveys and dictates it. This may well be the biggest problem, which is why this crime has rarely been the subject of criminal proceedings, and it directly affects the issue of truth in criminal proceedings. It may be a central issue of criminal responsibility. Several thousand books are written on the subject - truth in criminal proceedings. The theory has not come to the right answer where the measure is and where the truth should be sought. I'm taking this opportunity to tell the absent legislator, I'm guessing he'll be reading notes from this session, in which direction he should build up criminal regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28434	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? (The amendment holder is not present. ) There is a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28435	This amendment refers to the crime of falsifying an official document, and it is known who may be the perpetrator of this crime. We propose a change in the position of Article 1 248 that what the Government has proposed to be six months be one year. The reasons for this are found in the fact that counterfeiting such documents directly concerns the rights of every citizen. In this way, one who is authorized to apply regulations and respect the Constitution and the law practically creates some virtual reality, with the intention of accomplishing any benefit, or harming anyone. And it belongs to a group of serious crimes committed by officials, and it needs to be sanctioned in the strictest way. And finally, given that this is the last amendment to the entire complex of these laws, I just call on all the MPs to say that when we vote on these bill proposals and on this amendment they have in mind that this quick change in the set of criminal laws, ridiculously carried out, unspoken, shows that something serious is being prepared, that we are not on the right track, that these criminal proceedings that follow us are going to get some weird flow, and we have experience for the past two and a half years, that everything that is fast, that's short, that's bad, in practice, it's proved bad. One of these examples is the law on one-time extraprofit tax. He did not, folksally, "break" because someone did not show tenacity, but because there are systemic failures that make it inapplicable. We have tried with a large number of amendments to point to the problem and to improve something, if possible, to improve. However, it is obvious that identification cards will solve the problem of something deeply affecting human rights. In what way and whose interest it is, let each judge, so that when the vote is over, let it look in the mirror and say which way we're headed. Criminal law has been done for years, just so you know. They are being studied, there is also time for studies, and for evaluations, and for programmes, and for changes in the essential features of every crime, and for finding new crimes, describing new criminal acts, establishing a new degree of social danger in changed circumstances, but this speed all needs to worry us, especially the provisions to put into effect the next day of publication. Today, on April 11th, it is a symbol that on today, a year ago, a man committed suicide, probably because he felt that a group crime was committed to him. The Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal was passed. All those who said to go there, so let them prove their innocence, have shown how much they know the basics of rights. And know, there's no difference between those who break regulations and commit crimes, and those who make regulations, so they say, we know it's against the constitution, but it brings benefits. And people do crimes, because they know it's against the law, but they do some good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28436	Does any of the authorised participants in the debate come forward under this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular and since the proposal's representative is not present to give the final word, I conclude the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - THE PROPOSALS FOR FINISHING THE FUNCTIONS, THE CHOICE, THE NAME AND THE REFERENCE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF JUSTICES FOR THIS POINT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF DECISION: 1) The motion to amend the decision on the number of judges and judges in the courts, which has been submitted by the High Council of Justice; 2) the motion for a decision on the termination of the judicial duties of judges and special courts, which was submitted by the Judges' Board of Justice and Administration; 3) the proposal for a decision on the termination of office of the Judges of the Public Prosecutors, which was submitted by the Committee on 7 April 2003 to the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of Justice, the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice for the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of In addition, you have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration on the examination of the proposal for decisions made by the High Council of Justice. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for discussion, is five hours. I would ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to submit lists of registered Members of Parliament who wish to speak on this agenda item and, in accordance with Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? There's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28437	All the proposed decisions within this agenda point of course deserve attention, but in this first part I would refer to the proposed decision on the choice of judges. It refers to the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the District Court in Belgrade. Of course, I do not dispute the legal basis, nor the possibility of proposing, etc., but I hope that, within this point of the agenda, a little question of the ability, dignity of the proposed candidates can be touched, for one simple reason, to see who these people are and what their qualities are for which they are proposed for such high judicial functions. Of course, the Supreme Court, of hundreds of judges, has several vacant seats. Some of them retired, and it's a good thing they retired. New people are coming to their place. What, doubtless, can be concluded on the basis of some v.d. settings. Judges, V.D. Presidents, and they are involved in this decision, is that it is obvious that someone else, not the High Council of Justice, or the competent committees, and probably not the Assembly. So in Novi Sad, they sit at the table, they agree who could be in that position and propose a man. Whether there is a quality, whether or not the professional public can say something more significant, doesn't matter. What matters is that the time of silence, the time of emergency, the pets can go, most of them exist. In this proposal, special attention deserves a candidate under regular number 9, the Supreme Court of Serbia. He will be remembered for a famous sentence as he walked through Belgrade County Prison, when he said, "Who took my prisoner? "The district court's investigative judge doesn't know who stole his prisoner. His prisoner disappeared on the basis of one decision, based on the 1990 constitution's pre-lated member, which gives the Republic of Serbia the right to protect its rights from the SFRY or the republic within the SFRY when the interests of the Republic of Serbia are at stake. The judge, in practice, proved that he could no longer be a judge, for he did not call anyone to account for his missing prisoner. The prisoner was in custody for his solution and, to use one word, the full authority over that prisoner had that judge. It's simply impossible for a judge to know where his prisoner is. Although, it's not the only thing that that judge is known for. He's also known for stalling some criminal cases while he was in court. He didn't want to finish them, and the problem was one zero. Someone said someone bought a million tons, which is theoretically impossible, and basically, it was only 100,000 tons, as far as possible. Of course, he stalled the procedure, of course, by order of a third man, and the one he sued did not know about the deal. Basically, the scam happened there, which was a single zero misquote. Of course, that procedure ended with some parole. That procedure doesn't matter anymore, but it matters to that judge. He proved to be a judge on those two or three cases. Earlier, the president of that court, where the judge, as a rights fighter and a respected member of the Society of Judges, works day and day, went to the Supreme Court, so that the story is complete. One Supreme Court co-ordinator retired. Coordinator, this is a fictional function. It doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure, nor does it exist in the court's organization. But he was in charge of co-ordinating all the political processes that were going on, especially when the Serbian Supreme Court discussed it in the last instance. Apparently, society is being completed, not the Society of Judges, but a special group, in conditions where there is not yet a special section of the Court of Appeal for these trials, where it still belongs in the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, and there it will group and by system -- probably someone has committed a crime, some criminal proceedings will end. A similar situation is with the Belgrade District Court. I didn't want to discuss candidate number 13, when it comes to district court. I attended some trials where this man was tried. He's a very correct judge, at least as far as the proceedings and those procedural norms are concerned. He respects it perfectly. However, when I saw a proposal a few days later that he was no longer a candidate, then it was clear to me that that famous Cane - Frog got involved. That judge judges in one criminal case - slander with a serious consequence, that is Article 92(3) in relation to Article 2 and Article 1. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia. That's the judge's team of lawyers, Which is why they didn't give a reason, but they wanted to exclude him. Since they failed, and this judge has also proved to be tough, because he insists on seeing Cane-Frog and conducting the procedure in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, it is obvious that he no longer fits, that someone has wrongly proposed him and that he will not be fit for the district court, for a special department that would judge in selected cases. That's two or three examples of human resources policy. Of course, most people have the right to implement that human policy, but most people have an obligation to hear about these reasons, to know these reasons. There are court cases, you can see it all well. I wouldn't want us to get into a situation that we were in a few days ago, when the promoter, who we warned about the shortcomings, the inadequacy, the intricacies and other problems, which is why some people shouldn't be elected, with two years of delay, concluded that we were right, and then by an emergency procedure, he solves himself. So we're informing you in advance what is possible after such quick proposals, obviously a proposal with one unique interest, that both the law and the criminal proceedings that follow, fold, finish and send people where they need to be. The one who did and should go, but he has the right to legal action. The state is obliged to provide him with legal proceedings. (President: 10th minute. Do you want to use the next 10 minutes? No, no, no, This hastyness is dangerous, for haste will cause someone to be amnesty even though they have committed a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28438	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28439	Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary majority has absolutely the right to determine what the law allows. The parliamentary majority in this assembly hall can elect judges, at the ministry's proposal, by the latest authority, to elect a public prosecutor, and only to watch the ministry appoint deputy prosecutors. Normally, it is the right of the majority to determine on its own the situation in the judiciary, but at the same time, this work also implies responsibility for the situation in which the judiciary is located. We have nothing against the provisions of this point, which concern the regulation of this issue in a new way, by introducing a new body -- bigger for the issues of the judicial administration. Normally, it's by the regulations of the law that you've made, so you'll see how you deal with all of it. However, the question is whether the proposed list for the completion of the vacancy of the judges, which in the Belgrade District Court, was made in the Supreme Court of Serbia, based on moral-political similarities, obedience to the authorities, which is unfortunately the executive authority in this country, because we have the absolute supremacy of the executive authority over all others. Is the list for supplementing the vacant seats, in particular, what is most important, in the Supreme Court of Serbia, based on similarity criteria or on the criteria of expertise, good results shown in the exercise of judicial functions and similarity for the exercise of judicial function. About the other candidates, I would not like to spend too much of my words, but there is one example, and this is the man listed under number nine in the proposal for the addition of vacant Judges to the Supreme Court of Serbia, which is specific: this example tells us that the criteria for determining people who will be proposed for the Supreme Court of Serbia was precisely this moral-political resemblance, because if it was a matter of expertise, he could not really be found in the country's highest judicial authority. The Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group in this parliament on 2 July 2001, sent it, in accordance with the provisions of the article. 40, 46 and 48. The Law on Courts, from the 1991-1992 "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" and Article 49(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then in force, an initiative to launch the procedure for the resolution of the following persons: Serbian Supreme Court President Leposava Karamarkovic, President of the District Court in Belgrade Vidi Petrovic-Škero and Judges of the District Court in Belgrade Goran Cavlina. At that time, we launched an initiative that meant the possibility of the Justice and Administration Committee, as it was then called, to submit initiatives of this type, because it had jurisdiction under the provisions of that law. The High Council of Justice should do so today, but that's another question. Why is such an initiative filed? Against Slobodan Milosevic, president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, former president of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a criminal case was conducted at the time, more specifically at the stage of an investigation before the Belgrade District Court. The resolution of investigative judge Goran Cavlina accused him of being held in custody, and this measure was in effect on June 28th 2001, when there was an unlawful departure and delivery of Slobodan Milosevic to the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. According to the initiative itself, this act will enter the history of the Serbian judiciary as a precedent and entails political, criminal-law and any other responsibility of all its participants who, by their actions or inaction, have affected such an epilogue event. Let me explain the legal aspect of the situation that was happening back then, on June 28, 2001. The provisions of Article 316. The 1997 law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions provides that the detainee is to be temporarily brought out of prison and implemented by other authorities; Article 320 of the same law stipulates that the application of the detention measures is to be supervised by the President of the District Court, in which the office of detention is to be established; and Article 321 of the Law provides that the detainee is to be released from prison on the basis of a decision on the suspension of detention and a warrant for release from detention brought by the court before which the proceedings are to be conducted. The investigating judge, under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, was the only one obliged to take care of the fate of the detainees he was overseeing, had to know what was going on with his prisoner, as he himself, when he saw that the prisoner was no longer in the detention unit, is not there. The judge who allows himself the luxury of throwing his judge's office and authority under his feet, does not respect what he has been required under the provisions of the law, does not deserve, in our opinion, to be proposed for such a function. Because of all this, we Socialists, regardless of what the case is and the case related to our President Slobodan Milosevic and the former president of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what your political opponent is, not the enemy, we must say that everything that is related to the individual should be absorbed and that the principle should be seen. The principle in today's modern judiciary is related to the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime, which we have discussed in the debate in the principles and particulars of these days; it is related to the provisions of the international Charters of Human Rights and Civil Liberties; that is the principle that no one can be in police custody for more than 48 hours, the principle which obliges the judicial authorities to be the only one who can give the measure to keep a person in custody for more than 48 hours. All of this has to do with a judge who has failed to comply with his obligations, and he has been proposed to judge the Supreme Court. As a result, our initiative since 2 July 2001 referred to an initiative to launch a procedure for the resolution of the then-examination judge of the District Court in Belgrade, Goran Cavlina. Today we have come to the situation that such a man, who has not responded to professional obligations, is proposed from this judicial post to an even more responsible place, as judge of the Supreme Court. If we look at what happened to the other holders of the judicial function who were responsible for this act of legal violence, we'll see clearly what it is. Namely, as you know, Article 192. The law on criminal proceedings is prescribed for detention to be determined by the investigating judge of the competent court. The cited rules unequivocally conclude that Slobodan Milosevic had the status of a detained person over whom jurisdiction is exclusively investigated by the judge and judicial authorities. So, don't now... I'll try to explain it to you on the professional side. So if someone is detained... Can you, Madam President, restrain MPs who are impatient and give me conditions to continue my presentation?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28440	I ask you to listen to the MP, and I ask the MP to stick to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28441	Therefore, the decisions of the executive bodies, the highest executive body in one country, must not be a reason to disregard professional judicial obligations, which was, in particular, present. The Serbian government act, then, I will not mention, since I promised not to remind you of what hurts you, served as a legal basis for the extradition of one of the detainees of the then district court's investigation department in Belgrade, as a legal basis for bringing him out of custody and taking him to another country, specifically out of the country. Because of this, it has been stated that a procedure should be initiated for the resolution and the most responsible holders of judicial functions that were competent to oversee the work of the district court's investigative judge in Belgrade, and above all it was the office of the President of the District Court in Belgrade, and then it was Mrs Vida Petrovic-Skero. When I mentioned this lady, she is now (as far as I know) whether due to the merits of this procedure, appointed or elected Judge of the Supreme Court. Furthermore, we have suggested that the relevant investigative judge Goran Cavlin is suspended and dissuaded by his professional duties because he is not satisfied and not satisfied in a specific case, showing a concrete example of the criteria for performing his judicial function. What's today's situation? You know that Leposava Karamarkovic, who was then president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, has submitted an irrevocable resignation in order to protect the independence of judicial office and justice in general and to withdraw from the judiciary. Perhaps this example was also one of the reasons why Mrs Karamarkovic decided to take such a step. On the other hand, today, Goran Cavlin is proposed. As I have mentioned many times, he has not fulfilled his professional obligations. Resume in this case what is related to a person, but if one investigative judge does not take care of the detainees he is only responsible for, and has had to be placed under the supervision of his judicial function, will you then allow yourself to continue choosing the most responsible holders of judicial functions in such a way. If that's what you're going to do, it's an honor, but know that responsibility for this mess in the judiciary, as I've repeated repeatedly, falls on you alone. Whether it's eternal glory or thank you, I don't really know, but you shouldn't be dealing in such an irresponsible way with the most important issues related to the judicial function in our country, because it didn't do anyone any good, so it won't bring any good to this government either. For daily-political purposes, ignore the criteria that should be general and should be an unchangeable principle for the impartiality and objectivity of the bearers of the highest judicial functions, but it will remain recorded in this stenogram, so we may have opportunities, if we are alive and healthy, and hopefully we will be, in a few years we ask ourselves whether this was a good solution or not. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group will not support that proposal, and therefore you will have full responsibility for this situation. Mr. Minister, if you're in the mood, and I'm in the mood to open up the controversy, here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28442	People's MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group -- Serbia's reform -- came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28443	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DOS Parliament Club - Serbia's Reform essentially dealt with the topic of this item of the agenda these days, so the debate is exclusively about quality, without general place. It is clear, then, that the structure of the High Council of Justice is such that in the election of the judge, the domination of the judges is ensured, and in the election of prosecutors, the domination of prosecutors. I believe that by amending the law, we have allowed the Great Greater Personality to be established by the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court and our judiciary to be established in a quality way. There was no dilemma in the talks about all candidates meeting all professional, professional and criteria of personal integrity. Certain concerns have come about only the proposal that Mr. Zoran Savic, Judge of the District Court in Belgrade, be elected Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and in that sense, I would like the Assembly to make a special statement on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28444	The word has a minister of justice, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28445	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm always in the mood for controversy, only when I have an equal talker on the other hand. I can't argue about judicial finess with people who don't have a pass, and they don't even have a law degree. It's not nice after all, and I don't want him to be the weak Urosh on the other side. So, I apologize, ladies and gentlemen, for not being able to attend the afternoon session of the National Assembly. I spoke to Mrs. Veren Taylor, representative of the Council of Europe in Belgrade and Mr. Jeffrey Barrett, head of the European Commission for our country. I spoke to Mr. Masari the day before yesterday, the OSCE representative in our country, and earlier with European Troika representative, Greek Ambassador Spinalis. I can tell right now that from all these addresses we have received absolute support from the government of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, for the fight against organised crime, for these laws, as they are written and everyone absolutely supports and realizes that it is necessary to do this, that it is inescapable and that it is not aimed at destroying some European standards. If you are unhappy, you can contact Saddam Hussein, if you are dissatisfied, you can realize your rights in Belarus, Lukashenko is waiting for you with open arms, and as for mentioning the name of the president of a party, please listen carefully to what the protesters in Baghdad are shouting. You know what they say, "Now, Slobo," and that explains it enough. Otherwise, as the proposed candidates for the holders of judicial functions concerned, they were unanimously proposed by the High Council of Justice, all nominated by the profession. No one has been proposed by the Ministry or by the Minister of Justice. I think this is an adequate selection and we'll get the good judges of the Supreme Court and the District Court in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28446	Is there any other representatives, or president of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) Right to replica, MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28447	Ladies and gentlemen, just in the past few minutes, we have had the opportunity to see what is the main preoccupation of the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia's government in this system. First of all, I answered the line to say that I am glad that from the speech of the respected and respected doctor of law, Mr Batic, I have failed to hear a single word, no argument against what I have brought out of this pay phone as a matter of fact. So whenever someone has no arguments or they're weak, he calls for personal reasons. It's a well-known principle, in accordance with Shopenhower's principles, how to always be right. Shopenhower, sir, it's not the most famous shop, it's Shopenhower Arthur. That's why I want to say one more thing, calling on the names of the former presidents of the SRJ or such a peorative relationship with previous public authorities is really not good. We would like to work together to agree on good solutions, to find good legal solutions to improve the situation in our society, including in the judiciary, and not to pausally accuse, insult or disrespect each other. Whether protesters in Baghdad or elsewhere are yelling at one or the other, I really don't know if any of us have been able to hear what those protesters are yelling at you. One thing is inevitable, and that's that the truth has to come out eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28448	Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? Here, first call, MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28449	The only thing you can say in this situation is that we may not have to choose judges during our emergency. One thing. The other thing, which is violent or set v.d. The president of the Supreme Court of Serbia signed. That's two things that are controversial. I think the judges should be elected in a regular procedure. They're being tried, of course, by the Judges Act, and that's something that's good. The only reserve that can exist, we will not make any remarks, is whether you will go to the Supreme Court of Serbia and justify the job they are supposed to do. Since they have not had the opportunity to deal with such a responsible job as the position of a lawyer, such as the seat of the Serbian Supreme Court of Justice as the same choice in the district court by lawyers is somewhat unusual, there is no monitoring of the current that should exist, meaning, the lawyership, the judiciary, the district court and the Supreme Court. Okay, that's a proposal from the High Council of Justice. We are not making remarks, but simply making these two observations, as well as that Sonja Brkic certainly cannot do the work she does, that she is being appointed against the law to act as acting president of the Supreme Court of Serbia and that we disagree with the relationship he was with the previous president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, which is almost forced to resign. That's some stuff. We expect the next election of judges to be much more correct and not to be followed by extraordinary circumstances, which certainly affect the work of the High Council of Justice and some judgment, given which the hajka was led against the courts. Simply, the court does not need them to choose themselves and to have some self-censorship; it is necessary that legal conditions, the atmosphere in society, enable them to work, prevent corruption of the judiciary and, of course, political interference with the judiciary. We have some institutional guarantees for this, but the general climate in society and constant threats to courts do not allow and contribute to the construction of an independent judiciary, and we urge to prevent the involvement of the executive authority, the violent resolutions of judges, public prosecutors and to get a responsible, independent judiciary. That way we can contribute to the construction of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28450	Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic, second call. Does anyone else sign up for a word? Okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28451	The proposal to elect judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the Belgrade District Court, and given the conditions that the proposed candidates should meet, means that none of the proposed candidates likely received some criminal charges, due to a criminal offence by the judge. It is likely that this proposal means that they have shown an enviable degree of efficiency in their current judicial career, and probably that during the working century they have had a small number of judgments that have been abolished or annulled by a second-degree court. These candidates who are proposing for the Supreme Court are likely to have taken some of their rulings on a new, legal stand that has become binding and entered court practice. That's probably how it's supposed to be. It is neither the time nor the place to mention specific names, for individual candidates it is perfectly reliable to say that they are recognizable by something contrary to what I just cited as quality and guarantee during the election. Unfortunately, we also have judges in court who don't know what immunity is. I'm just surprised that one of the judges of the Fifth District Court wasn't proposed for the District Court, because he would certainly qualify for new criteria. It's that famous judge who's got a criminal record and he's got a lot like him on this list. That's the judge who doesn't know what the immunity of the MP is, so he's making such judgments, which are why the District Court has to explain on several sides and point to basic ignorance. And if he were a freshman, that man would know more than a judge. It's my fault that criminal charges haven't been taken into consideration yet, because of the alternatively mentioned two crimes. One is a violation of the law of the removed judge, and the other is a bribe in the judiciary. However, the prosecution continues to remain silent, and similar to him is progressing. I don't want to mention names, so they don't get me wrong, that I'm expressing myself offensively, although it's impossible for a man from this assembly speaker to express himself offensively, because the Criminal Law allows political attitudes to be represented and political action can be exceeded, too. That's not what we're gonna use. I would just point out that it's not good when a representative of the government, who officially does not propose this decision, and I'm talking about a decision on the choice of judges, etc., after two days of absence from this room comes and says... A lot of things have been suggested here, if you were present, you would hear that the SRS asked to tighten sanctions and to be precise, and that the elements and features of some crimes be made a little clearer, so that the court could be more efficient, that ultimately the pre-criminal procedure could be more quality. When it comes here, so when it is said -- please contact Saddam Hussein for protection, it must be commented on for one simple reason, which we as Serbian citizens should not seek protection outside Serbia for all of our rights. We should seek protection in Serbia, from competent authorities that should be both impartial and objective and related to the Constitution and the law. If we're talking and mentioning that name and name, then we should remember that that name and name was on our side, even verbally, when someone bombed us, even if a speck of someone had to tell us that if we didn't like it, we shouldn't really hate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28452	Please stick to the agenda theme. You didn't get the right to a replica. They got the Socialists right to the replica, you didn't get the right to the replica. You've got ten minutes to talk about the subject and stick to the agenda theme. I don't know if you have anything to do with Saddam Hussein. If you've found yourself offended, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28453	It's nothing past the subject, it's all about the subject. You need to understand one thing, that if someone doesn't listen to the Government's representative and doesn't talk to them for help, I'm just afraid there will be people who will turn to the other side, the Council of Europe, and it's much more dangerous. Why is it more dangerous? Because this Europe has some special criteria. You know for a fact that a man can be a peacemaker, a guarantee of peace, a guarantee of stability.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28454	I'm sorry to interrupt your grill, but this isn't a press conference. You've been given the right to speak as deputy chief of Parliament's club on the subject on the agenda. Please stick to the proposal for the Supreme Court and the District Court in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28455	Ma'am, I'm just talking about the Supreme Court and the District Court as institutions where people speak for the protection of their rights. I'm just making a parallel, and I'm suggesting that one government official has instructed us to contact someone else for protection. I say the latter is not in charge, but there is a third authority that is responsible for the Supreme Court, next to the District Court, which is committees of the Council of Europe and other institutions, because the government representative here has been reading a lecture about how in contact with these organisations he has received full support for the provisions of our laws to apply these people, and these provisions say that a man can stay in custody for three years and wait for a decision. I don't know what I've overstepped some authority into, not to stick to the subject of the agenda. I'm talking about people who need to apply these regulations. I'm talking about whether these people are capable of applying those regulations, whether their existing reference is adequate to apply new regulations. Half of them won't understand these new regulations. That's what I'm talking about. But for the past few days, we've got another protective institution. It's a commission, it's the Court of Justice of Europe. They have to take care of the people they've proposed. They have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28456	But you don't have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28457	Mr. Batic made me take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28458	The second time I warn you to stick to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28459	Mr Batic is the minister of justice. If you had a chance to read what the Ministry Act said last week, you saw that the Justice Department had, among other things, jurisdiction, as someone said, but it does the affairs of criminal law, etc. Don't defend me from Mr. Batic. He sent us all here to go to the wrong addresses. We don't want the wrong addresses. We want to contact these people you're going to choose as judges, but we want to say we're asking these judges to apply regulations, to apply laws, and even these pheleric but objectively, impartially in a unique way for everyone. And I'm expressing dissatisfaction if there's one among these candidates who's been charged with a criminal offense by a judge, and he's got them. Why isn't the criminal report made? The D.A. didn't want to go through with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28460	There are no more statements filed by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, so we move to debate according to the application for the word of the MPs. The only list was reported by a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. The first has the word National MP Dragan Ljubojevic, then Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic and Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28461	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an agenda point - the appointment of certain holders of judicial functions. The Serbian Radical Party on several occasions in this hall, in front of this house, when the voters of judicial functions were elected, pointed to poor personnel policy. Was it necessary that a month ago, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia was killed to admit that you were running a bad personnel policy, and then by means of media pressures to resolve, that is to say, a number of judges and prosecutors to resign, a number of judges and prosecutors should be detained, arrested and charged against. It says that in these past two and a half years, your human policy has been bad. What are the guarantees that these too today, I think of nine Supreme Court judges, 15 District Court judges in Belgrade, will not soon experience the same fate as Sarajlic, Terzic, Djoinčević, the Niš investigative judge and many others who came under the law back a month ago. I am really surprised that on April 1st, the High Council of Justice submitted a proposal to elect the Supreme Court and the District Court judges, and then one of the court judges, Zoran Tejic, was withdrawn on 7 April. Just a week was enough to realize that you were wrong or maybe this act, which was filed on April 1st, represents a first-april joke, or maybe in some months, two, three or five, when it turns out that many of these judges are not adequate, are not frames to perform the functions that they were proposed for, simply be an explanation that it was a first-april joke. You, a while ago, and I think there was a full month, perhaps a little more than that, solved a number of Supreme Court judges because they met all the conditions to retire, and here you suggest Neda Antonic, who turned 61 years old, then Milena Drecun-Inic, who is 60 years old. These are judges who will perform Serbia's highest judicial office for the next seven, eight, nine, 10 years. Is that the real staff policy you're running? Also, of the 97 candidates on the Supreme Court list, you've chosen two lawyers. Are lawyers really adequate to go straight to the Supreme Court or should they be judges of county courts; simply, slowly the stairs on the stairs climb on this judicial scale, therefore, first be judges of municipal courts, then county courts, and then as a highlight, as the crown of some judicial career become judges of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that the Serbian Government, or the current government, will not do anything seriously in this extremely important area of justice either. I doubt this issue will be settled properly with this proposal. This time, although the law is not on the agenda right now, but it is in close contact with the proposed candidates for the holders of judicial functions, I would recommend that you adopt amendments by the Serbian Radical Party to the proposal for a criminal law of the Republic of Serbia which increases penalties for civil servants, or for authorised persons when committing a crime of abuse of official office, to try in this way and in this area by increasing the penalty for you to act preventively, so that we do not again come into a situation where some high-level judicial functions are directly involved in certain criminal acts. Also, I would especially like to mention now a number of judges, which were 1999/2000. the year off, and that was Zoran Ivosevic and Leposava Karamarkovic, who you pompously returned to power in Serbia, and then two and a half years later realized that those who had resolved them were in fact right; you only lost two and a half years, only two and a half years in place and only problems in the judiciary accumulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28462	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28463	For two and a half years, DOS officials have been saying that whenever they talk about the failures of their government, their functioning in any area, they say someone in the past is guilty of it, that the former regime is guilty. Now, today within this agenda point, we are able to talk about the successes of your personnel. I know I and we all know that in Serbia we have never had an independent judiciary before, but since the DOS has been in power in Serbia, the judiciary has been maximumly politically colored. You know well what decision you have made here, the illegal decision of the Assembly, when you returned to the judicial functions of Zoran Ivosevic and Leposava Karamarković. You wrote and talked about them, as the best judges, as judges who adorned all possible judicial qualities, with their mouths full of praise that these were two high-quality and professional judges. I now conclude that you must have been denied obedience, so you decided to relieve them after two and a half years of trial. Ivosevic, and when you brought him back to the judiciary, had conditions for retirement. I don't know what it took you two-and-a-half years to practice, and, well, you know, a man disappoints you. You also hurried to advance your staff, such as Radet Terzic, who is being prosecuted before he resigned, which is why you - you know, Milan Sarajlic - you know how that chamber of yours infamously ended, Đorđa Mirkovic, the President of the Fourth Municipal Court, whom you have appointed, you have solved, you are prosecuted; they say now that a man who was a lawyer, a colleague of Minister Batic in Obrenovac, has been appointed as the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac. Now he has come to correct the mistakes of Gjorge Mirkovic at the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. I haven't noticed, and I don't think anyone, in these arrests, in the last month, at least as far as the judiciary is concerned, has been arrested by anyone you can tie to your former government. All of these, gentlemen, are your emergency personnel. That is why I fear and fear the duration of these judges, who are proposing to us here today for the Supreme Court and for the Belgrade District Court. Mrs. Sonja Brkic, who has proposed herself today, to choose her, has already been promoted and praised by the government's representatives and has made her own expression on television, the first day you elected her president of the Supreme Court. He said that by the end of that week it would be processed (I have no idea what it means, but I suppose it is a criminal procedure, it is a new coin), so when that week passed, he said that by the end of next week, all those arrested in this action would be processed, and at the end of that week would continue for another week, so that now, the other day, Minister Batic would say that so-called. The procession starts in September of this year, or maybe who knows what year. I would like to know if all these judges scheduled for the Belgrade District Court are scheduled for this special department of the District Court, which has been waiting for a month. Believe me, it's amazing to me that so far in the judiciary, or at the Belgrade District Court, we didn't have enough personnel to form this new, or special department. You, gentlemen, or representatives of the DOS government, especially when it comes to the Minister of Justice, have been talking about lustration for two and a half years. In the last month, you've been particularly saying that you're going to lustrate all the judges who participated, as you say, in election thefts, or election commissions. Perhaps that is why you have now resolved, or replaced Djorge Mirkovic, because the man has been in all election commissions since the election in Serbia's multiparty system. One of the judges on this list, ladies and gentlemen, is a judge who participated in the work of the electoral commission, and as Radoslav Baćovic was now awarded the crossing from the Municipal Court to the District Court, so one of these judges, in 1997, after the presidential elections, was awarded the award for participation in the work of the election commission by crossing from a municipal court to the District Court in Belgrade. I'm not going to tell you on purpose who this is, so just worry a little bit, try to find out. It matters to you, believe me, it doesn't fit your story. Mr. Radoslav Baćovic, who is due to cross over, or has already moved to the District Court in Belgrade, was the president of the Fifth Municipal Court, the court in which Judge Danko Lausevic, Mr. Zoran Krasic spoke, and Minister Batic confirmed that he knows who it was, because everyone in charge received criminal charges against the judge, and here he is, until today, of course, not found himself in motion for resolution. I, as well as my colleagues, want the motionary to explain - first, why Judge Zoran Tejic was proposed to move from the Fourth Municipal Court to the District Court in Belgrade, and then, since Minister Batic said these proposals were unanimous, which was lost in the meantime and why was Mr Zoran Tejic removed, that is, why was the proposal for his transition to the District Court in Belgrade? When it comes to an independent judiciary, Mr. Minister says on TV -- let the judge who was called by anyone in power on the phone come forward and tell him to judge one way or another. He didn't expect Batic to hear from Radoslav Baćovic on TV, to tell him, or to inform the public who ordered him to hold elections without a single voter's list, or maybe he expected Judge Ljiljana Mihajlovic from the Fourth Municipal Court to say that the ruling in Case 5 No. 1913/02 did not write in the court building, but in the building and in the cabinet of the minister of justice. In the end, last night I hear a minister of justice saying that by the end of this year we'll have a clean judiciary. I don't trust Mr. Secretary, because he said the same thing in early 2001, even in early 2002. Gentlemen, the Serbian judiciary will be independent by the end of that year at the beginning of which the Serbian Radical Justice Minister will give you the promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28464	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28465	Ladies and gentlemen, we Serbian radicals are in principle not involved in the personnel policy led by most in the Assembly. There is nothing controversial about it, nor can anyone dispute the right of the majority to lead the human rights policy when it comes to the judiciary and when it comes to staffing in all other areas under DOS authority, i.e. government or institutions that have control from DOS. What's most controversial here is why you gentlemen are justifying yourself and who you're justifying that these candidates have no connection, how some want to present it, with the political parties that make up DOS, or that they have nothing to do with the resolution ministry. What's with the justice? What kind of argument is that? You have every right, both as parties and as Government to propose candidates. It is doubtless that these candidates meet the criteria, meet the conditions for expertise. Also, you shouldn't hide if someone from this pay phone asks you what parties individual candidates have proposed. Why don't we say it publicly, why should we find out from public information, from newspapers, that, say, the resolution minister had no influence, even if he was against the election of a deputy public prosecutor or a public prosecutor or a Supreme Court judge. Why would he be against it? There's some logic. So, some parties have proposed these people you've currently detained and questioned, and then these parties are being fenced. There is plenty of room to manipulate, to go out individual leaders and to argue that they have nothing to do with those individuals, as some others have suggested, related to certain functions or to certain parties, but that no one is interested in Serbia. We're interested in who's behind these candidates right now. The majority of the congregation stands. Gentlemen, don't build yourself up tomorrow. If something goes downhill, don't, it doesn't really make sense. You praised the previous Supreme Court president in all your mouths for all the bells. A man just couldn't believe there were such people, but you introduced them like that. Then this same president, under your pressure, resigned. There's nothing to argue with, it's your right. The time and events that take place have shown that it is not or is capable of that function and you choose new ones. But don't convince anyone that these candidates have nothing to do with political parties. They do, gentlemen. We Serbian radicals do not want to discuss or comment on names. Unlike many of you, we don't want anything in advance to prejudge, but we believe that there will soon be a proposal for amendments for members of the Supreme Court. Again, although we would not like to, you will appoint someone to do the duty. Otherwise, this is a state that is in the perspective of the state of emergency or v.d. state, state of shadows, and you gentlemen are part of that scenario.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28466	The People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. It's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28467	Ladies and gentlemen, the minister of justice, Vladan Batic, spoke, insulted the MPs, and he did not get a warning about it. This shows the relationship between both the government and those who lead this National Assembly to the MPs and, above all, to the MPs of the opposition. It's no surprise to me. Last night, I saw on TV "Politica" one that looked a lot like Vladan Batic, and I don't think it was Vladan Batic, who was even more insulting to MPs and all those people who are involved in the opposition business, or criticise the government and the government's proposals. There are two lawyers in the proposal for judges of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Until yesterday, you said that many in that law profession were infuriating their profession. Some of them were arrested, and I thought lawyers were more like writing a constitution or something, but I see we don't have enough judges right now, but that's why you're proposing lawyers. What I think is controversial and why I do not trust the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister of justice when he says he had no influence on the choice and proposal of judges of the district and the Supreme Court, there are also cases from Nis. I don't argue that one of the candidates chosen as a legal holder was a very good student, that she was a very honest woman, but she has one flaw - she was elected the moment her father was a member of the High Council of Justice. It's a little ticklish after all. Furthermore, a former spokesman and official of the Democratic Party was elected as judge in Nis. So much for saying that there is no party influence, that the parties do not influence the choice of judges and that especially the minister of justice does not interfere, but that even against his will, the holders of judicial functions are elected. In the end, there's a lady or a lady who's an advisor at the Justice Department. I don't think the minister could say that it wasn't his proposal or that he didn't know. You know, there should be at least party divisions in this one. This will be the judges that should be tried both when you are in power and when you are in opposition, and when someone else is in power and when that other person is in opposition again. Some of the Democratic Party's colleagues say they will be retired by then, when they are no longer in power. Maybe if the prison internship counts for double duration.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28468	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. It's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28469	Ladies and gentlemen, if the salaries of judges in Serbia hadn't changed in these last two and a half years, it could have been freely said that nothing has changed in the judiciary since the DOS came to power. The DOS, which announced personnel changes, new judges, objective, quality and qualified, came to power and literally did nothing, except take on more recent SPS and JUL staff, who had performed those functions until then. I'm going to explain to you just one example that is so brilliant to understand your relationship to justice. Deputy district attorney at Uzic Dusan Djordjevic served as president of the Electoral Commission for the Enjoying Election Unit in the federal elections in 2000. How well he did that job and did it, two criminal charges were filed against him. I filed one for monetary, financial machinations, for the evasion of money intended for election committees, and the other for DOS. In my application, literally nothing was done, and the application submitted by DOS was suspended, i.e. the procedure was suspended for procedural reasons. Namely, the process was suspended before a court in Valjevo, as the DOS reportedly could not file an application without the authority of the list holder Vojislav Kostunica. DOS filed a report for stealing votes. The same man, Dusan Djordjevic, was re-elected in February this year as deputy district attorney at Uzic. Now he's the DOS guy, he's still running that function, probably the same way he's done it before. It's a similar situation with the President of the Uzic District Court. First, as a member and when the SPS came from a criminal judge from Cheeta to Užice for the district judge, to be the chairman of the District Court now, but, of course, is no longer a member of the SPS, is now a member of the DSS or of another party that is a member of the DOS. The situation is such in the judiciary in Uzic and in the pleasure judiciary, and the role played by Parliament President Natasa Micic and acting as Serbian President. Its role is very important and important in the pleasure judiciary, but time will show all this and it will one day come on the agenda, so it will determine who it is and how it worked in Serbia's judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28470	This is a exhausted list of speakers. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Before we conclude a single search, does the Proposer’s representative want a word? He's not present. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Since we've conducted a unique search, then on the scheduled day of the vote, we'll be making a statement about the decision. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a list of candidates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic of Macedonia and the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the selection of one member of the Council of the Republic of Radiodifuge Agency, which was submitted by MP Ivan Andrić with a group of MPs, as well as the lists of candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Republic of Radiodiffs, who have submitted the proposals. I remind you that, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a series of MPs who wish to participate in the debate on the proposal for a list of candidates. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a list of candidates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect one member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and the lists of candidates for the selection of members of the Council of the Republic of Broadcasting Agency submitted by authorised promoters. Does the proposing representative, MP Ivan Andric, want a word? He's not here. ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28471	These decisions are part of a job that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must do under the law adopted last year. However, we are doing this job with great delay and, I would say, under public pressure. If they take into account the authority of this council, it adds this state, the conclusion follows that similar candidates should be elected, to form advice and to seduce order, above all among undisciplined media. It's those media that show they're willing to show through the ether a picture that's not in the will of the government, it's not the will of the DOS. Of course, the idea is that it's all in accordance with the law, through the Council that's going to distribute frequencies, rights, break down monopolies, establish new monopolies. That's the purpose of this delay speed, because that could be defined. When looking at what is proposed and who should be a member, it can be unmistakably found that this advice is made by NGOs, 70% of the candidates proposed are either at the head of some NGO or close to some NGO that has touch points with free and called independent media, although this category does not exist. Obviously, there is a cleanup, a denial of permits, the establishment of new regional, rural, local, and global media, at least when it comes to the territory of the Republic of Serbia. These people, combined with a bit of journalism profession and a little expertise in the area of technology that is necessary, need to seduce order, to reduce the number of electronic media to some reasonable extent. Of course, the principle of this reduction will be a fondness, a similarity, who is the main financier of which the media, as provided by the cameras, where he went to get funds for the transmitter, who provided him with a transmitter, who was advertised in the campaign, on which the media, which literally applied all the measures from the Order on special measures during the emergency and especially the measures of the Bureau for the communication of the Republic of Serbia's Government. So, what could not be in accordance with the law and the prescribed deadline, now under emergency conditions, can be completed by an emergency procedure. Now there's even an excuse if some media loses their license, because the area wasn't regulated, so there were pink televisions, media like that, radio stations like that, so the programs got mixed up, and all of that got thrown out, and now this advice is going to bring the situation into normal. I am not a supporter of some terminology that has been used for the past 10 years -- there will be no media darkness, as there was once a speech for why the Internet does its own, for the reason that Serbia is a small country, for the reason that press freedom and classical freedom cannot be shut down, because the right to publish newspapers and publications is achieved by submitting a simple application to register it, so there is the possibility of hearing the other side. What worries is that a request for media domination, a request for media security as a means of mental manipulation, is now getting its special justification, and the objectivity and legality of the work of the future council is justified by composition, and there are representatives of NGOs. I'm not going to use one word Mr. Micunovic used, and she's very picturesque, not offensive, but to avoid risking a warning, I'm not going to use her. Representatives, the most visible members of NGOs, are precisely people who show a super-average of perseverance in the protection of individual rights or one freedom. It's by definition. However, with us, the status of NGOs is very problematic, given that they are financed through the budget; well, simply, the grandmothers and frogs do not go together and probably 60% of these NGOs could not have that status, but we treat them as citizens' associations, something that everyone has the right to establish in accordance with the Constitution, to report and to start working. Here are the representatives of those NGOs who are supported from abroad, but not because of the tenacity to protect some rights, but because of the need, in one period, to create a media atmosphere and the mood of public opinion that they are all against something, and when it comes from multiple sides, then it creates the impression that they are all against something. This resistance of the NGO, and above all I think of the members of these NGOs who are proposed here, of course, they couldn't hide. Over the past few years, they have shown political commitment, that they cannot be objective, have proved that they are defined, on which sides they are found, that they understand democracy and what they think of human rights. Media representatives, representatives of NGOs who were so called here to represent these associations are actually people who provided funds from abroad for one logistics that was needed a few years ago here; they showed us human rights and democracy in one light, and when their sympathisers came to power nothing that had ever been said before, because now some other regulations apply, some other principles of work. No more general rebellion, no more of that pathological requirement to protect human rights, but it's said that the situation is difficult, there needs to be understanding of the new situation, there's been a clean-up of something from before Tito, and it takes time, we're in transition, and a lot of insinuations that can serve or deceive someone to do something that's serious. Now, that group has gathered now in one place and it needs to seduce order in the media, and that order will be a similarity only to DOS; you can work, others will be closed or silenced; and, of course, with other provisions that they will insist on under that basic law, they will be closed to a different opinion and the citizens of Serbia will, I must say, be in that darkness that you have called upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28472	The speaker Ivan Andric and MP Joca Arsic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28473	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, just a few introductory words to explain what is the task ahead of us and the goal we want to achieve. In July of last year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law on Broadcasting; it was the first law concerning the media area and one of the most radical changes that we have brought into our society. This law implies the independence of the body, the broadcasting agency that will lead, I hope, after this session, to count on whether this law is being implemented; the appointment of the Serbian Radio-Television Management Board will bring forward a strategy for the development of broadcasting in Serbia and eventually, perhaps most importantly, to open public competitions for the distribution of frequencies licenses, i.e. a television broadcasting permit. Following the then passed law, there are certain and authorised proposings. The officials are the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina, university rectors, radio and public voice associations, domestic NGOs, associations of citizens and churches and religious communities. The procedure is, therefore, the following: when we appoint these eight members of the Council they will meet at the first session and will propose to the National Assembly of the ninth member, who, in addition to all other conditions defined by law, must meet the condition that he lives and works in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. All the promoters have submitted proposals; if allowed, I will read these proposals. The assembly of AP Vojvodina was proposed by Mr Dimitri Boarov and Mr Vladimir Mark; the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed Nenada Cekic and Janko Baljak, Executively Greater AP to Dragan Rogavac and Natalia Šašvari; the rectors of the University of Republika Srpska professor Aleksandr Todorovic and professor of Dr Miroljub Radojkovic; the Associations of Journalists, Professional Associations of Film and Drama Artists and Professional Associations of Compositors in the Republic of Serbia proposed to Snježana Milivojevic and Nin Brajevic; domestic NGOs and citizens' associations, which deal primarily with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children, were proposed by Professor Vladimir Vojelić and Mr Miljenko Deret, and the religious communities were transferred to his government by Mr. Sigar. We, as the committee responsible, or as members of that committee, multiplied all the biographies and divided them to the MPs, so that I would no longer talk about this, and especially considering that this is about authorised proposings and that we as parliament can accept or reject the proposed proposals. That's what this agency's independence is about. What I would like to talk about is the representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So the law provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia also appoints its candidate as a member of the broadcasting council. On the Committee, we unanimously decided to leave the parliamentary groups, or parties in the Assembly, to propose their candidates. Most of the parties proposed their candidates; the minority, you're right, four or five parties, I apologize, has proposed its candidates. By choosing the way in which we will come to the vote in the Assembly, and bearing in mind that the Committee is not in charge to decide which of the candidates will be held at the vote, the Committee unanimously decided that two candidates whose proposings will collect the largest number of signatures of MPs who support their candidacy will be held at the vote. These candidates who have collected the largest number of signatures are Mrs Ljiljana Smajlovic, who is proposed by the DSS parliamentary group and Professor Dr Vladimir Cvetkovic, whose proposal is the DOS parliamentary group. Their biographies are also shared to you; anyone can decide whether or not they will give their voice to any of the candidates, however, it is necessary that the advice of the broadcasting agency be appointed as soon as possible. I must remind you that the deadlines provided for by this law, which are also not too inclusive, so they do not involve any sanctions, obliged us to make the last day for the appointment of broadcasting council candidates in October of last year. That deadline has long been for us, political and social circumstances have not allowed us to plead earlier on these candidates, and I ask that we do so today and allow the members of the Broadcasting Agency Council to do the following things in the next three to four months. First of all, to name their ninth member, then to bring a strategy for the development of broadcasting in Serbia, to discuss public competitions for the assignment of frequencies and enable radio-television stations to get their frequencies and finally start working in accordance with the law and, as a parallel thing, enables the establishment of a board of directors of the broadcasting institution of Serbia, transformed RTS and thus enables its full, final and formal separation from the state. I hope you will keep all these demands in mind and that you will allow us to choose members of the council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28474	The word has been given by MP Joca Arsic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28475	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not take up much of the time, I would like to warn only a few of the facts that are important for making this decision today. I don't dispute the need to choose advice. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I voted to put this item on the agenda. The president said it was unanimous, which is perfectly fine and correct. We made our remarks that this council was not formed in the context of the debate on certain points that were on the agenda of this assembly, precisely from the aspect of this very important body, or the advice of the broadcasting agency. The president said everything in this council, it's not disputed. We have a problem here that I was talking about today on the Committee and I want to warn the Assembly. The problem's in the next one. The law predicted exactly this procedure, that these seven subjects propose two candidates. The assembly has the power to propose also two candidates, in a manner foreseen by law. So 126 MPs from these two candidates must choose one on the separate list individually, with each proposing. So eight of them pick this ninth. We've got a double job today. First, let's determine the two candidates that were proposed today, and, as is said, four or five candidates were in play. We had a proposal that was withdrawn yesterday. A new proposal for a new candidate for this council has been set out today. Therefore, we are here to determine these two candidates. In which way we will determine, the law is not precise. There is something that after a member who was spoken of by Committee President Andric, an esteemed colleague, comes a member of 24 who is establishing a new obligation, that the list set out in Article 24, I don't know what position, never mind, third from below. At least 30 days before deciding on the selection of members of the council, the Assembly will publicly publish all valid lists of candidates that the proposed candidates have submitted with the basic biographical data of the proposed candidates. So today, when we determine these two, and these are already established, we should publish that list, make it known and be born 30 days, and then join the vote. My commitment on the board today was to identify the candidates immediately, to make the list known, to act by law, if we don't want to question these people we say are the most influential, respected people in the profession by law and by the rules of the game of their choice. If we choose them in one way that is not legal to the end, I think that's why we question their integrity. So I ask that this congregation be determined about this thing, firstly to determine these two, to give an ad, means that in a convenient way we are making this list, and within an appropriate time, or by law, not less than 30 days, we are making a choice, not an appointment. There's a lot of talk here about appointments. The appointment is not defined by this law, but by choice. We must choose between two candidates of one candidate and by a very strict criterion, the criteria by which the government is elected, meaning 126 votes for, or more than half of the total number of MPs, as is the number of this assembly. Therefore, I ask that this be taken into account when deciding. I ask the majority of the assembly who has the authority to propose (and, as we have seen, she has made a proposal), if she wants to reach a consensus on this and choose the right candidates, that everything that is stipulated in the law about the election of the council is respected. I don't want to tell you the reasons why it hasn't happened so far. They're already told, there's no need to repeat ourselves. We've been working really hard for a long time. I don't want it to seem like this is the way we want to obstruct, but I want to warn you of what's very important in today's decision-making. I'd like to point out one more thing. We need to take care of how we're going to make these people's choices. The Rules of Procedure are clear and defined, and we have not heard how we will make the choice. I think it's very important that we know whether it's a secret vote by an electronic system, which I personally think is not good, because it can favor the first for whom it is voted. It is that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is chosen by a secret vote that means from a separate list of two candidates, with a commission and a vote, that we make the choice of these candidates. I think it's the most correct, fairest and most democratic way to choose these people, who will have the main word tomorrow and lead the basic policy in this country as far as broadcasting organisations are concerned, that is, the most significant segment of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28476	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28477	It's been waiting a long time for this law and we're in a position to start editing the media space in our country. Since we are a state that has a lot of TV and radio stations and that most of them work without any permission and without any control of the strength of the transmitters and even financial control at all, certainly this is very important; the need for the constitution of the council has proved not now, but much earlier, since the takeover of power itself should have been done as soon as possible. Those who certainly had illegal buildings, such as Pink Television, and frequencies and everything else, should have been adequately sanctioned for everything they did to us and in whose function they were, and against which we were all against until October 5th. After that, there are obviously those who are no longer so against it. On the contrary, that's what they're for. I'll enjoy it, and I'll wait for the decision of the broadcasting advice to be given the frequency. I am keenly interested in how these four national frequencies will be shared, as two are intended for RTS, i.e. the successor of RTS. It will be quite interesting to me, who it is, and what it has done and whether all those who have proposed lustration will insist that the lustration be carried out in the media space and that all those who have done what they did and were in the function of a political option do so. So this advice is certainly important. It is equally important for people of professional, personal and moral integrity to be able and able to resist political influences. This is very important, not because of us, but because of the state and the construction of a healthy media space and the introduction of order into this media area. It is also important to note that the provisions of this law when proposing the last two candidates for one seat elected by the Serbian Parliament are not respected. The list of candidates must be published, nationalised 30 days before the list of candidates is decided. It's an imperative provision under this law. So, we cannot decide today on the list of candidates proposed by the Serbian Parliament, because we received a proposal for a candidate in the broadcasting council, Mr Cvetkovic, today. It's something that, if we want to respect the law that we've passed ourselves, we have to do, that is, to comply with the 30-day rule. Of course, some will say, it will prevent the constitution of broadcasting advice and will delay the resolution of this process for another month. That should have been taken into account when the candidates proposed. I don't think the media should be responsible for recklessness when proposing candidates, when it wasn't about who was proposed. It may have been tried on the basis of its professional qualities, which are, in the biography of Zoran Petrovic, if it is said to be, definitely indisputable, but the other side that is required for membership in the broadcasting council, which is an undeniable moral quality that should allow that man to be resistant to the pressures that will surely be on the two remaining frequencies, while targeting four or five televisions, remains to be seen. That is why we cannot today, if we are to comply with the law in the first step that we have to make, to decide on the candidate of the Serbian Parliament for this place, because it has not been 30 days of a kind of public debate on the proposed candidates. The public debate also contributed to Zoran Petrovic withdrawing his candidacy, precisely because he had in the past the responsibility for applying some laws, which we have described as non-democratic and anti-civilisation, of firing professors at the time of a non-democratic regime that is behind us. This public debate, I do not judge Mr Cvetkovic's quality, which is doubtless given his renaissance, but simply those 30 days must be respected as a provision of this law. Because the law says it has to go 30 days, and this law precisely and in detail defines the selection process of members of the broadcasting council, precisely because it takes great attention and great caution, a great responsibility in the election process. This is a very sensitive area, and because we have a lot of television that will definitely lobby and do everything to make sure that they're the ones who get the frequency, and it's important that those 30 days go by. This is an objective obstacle to selecting a member of the council. We as the Democratic Party of Serbia do not dispute the need to elect the other seven members of the council today, but with due regard to the legal provision it can certainly be elected today, because it has only been a few hours since we received his candidacy, let alone 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28478	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. We move on to the debate by applying for the word of the MPs of the people. The first member of the People's Parliament to be declared is the People's MP Milorad Mircic, followed by the MP Stevan Kesejić, and then the MP to the people, Veroljub Arsic, and this is a list of registered speakers on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28479	The law says that the Agency's council has nine members who are elected from the ranks of prominent experts in the fields of importance for the performance of the Agency's tasks. Says media experts, advertising experts, lawyers, economists, telecommunications engineers and others. It is a law voted by this assembly, and the proposal on who should be a member of the council, which we have received from the board or from the mandated proposings, covers the most of the last item, which is this - and others. Gentlemen, the Agency's advice decides on very important matters, key matters. It decides primarily on the natural wealth of this country called frequency. It decides on the fate of the media, decides in some way on the fate of this country, and we know how powerful the media is. What are we doing here? Here we have received proposals that have clearly arisen from trade within political parties at first sight. Some of these proposed candidates, listed here in your biography as experts, specifically for marketing, who work in some trade organisations, personally as an opposition MP, felt on their skin what they were like as journalists, what they were when they were employed in the media, what they were doing, and what a powerful and striking fist they were, as you say of the former Milosevic regime. Now you gentlemen are promoting them to experts, to experts, to Democrats, to people who will be able to contribute with their knowledge, previously acquired by experience, to the development of the agency, or to the development of democracy or the media. Gentlemen, you're making a terrible mistake. There's a lot of us here in the Assembly who've been here for years. Some of these candidates, whom you explain in your biography that they are excellent journalists, I also personally know and I felt in the fate of an opposition MP as they were opponents and as they were persistent about fighting for democracy. They were loyal to the last dinar and faithful to every regime. When the money went missing in the previous regime, they quickly ran over to you. Many have already found themselves in your ranks on October 6, 2000. Of course, they couldn't go to this big game or these big parties, and then they went into smaller parties. They moved into smaller information houses, and then when it was enough time they introduced themselves or you consciously suggested that they re-determine this country's media destiny. Gentlemen, you have to understand that this is a very important decision. There was no reason to bring this kind of progress. As Professor Petrovic filed his resignation or withdrew his candidacy, it would be good if you spoke to these candidates again. Maybe some will finally decide, since here I am revealing their careers, their past, to retreat. It's better to withdraw their candidacy than to throw up again. You gentlemen want to do it at all costs and how sincere the desire of the leading DOS coalition is now, I will not discuss it. I highly doubt it's their insistence, but from some reliable sources, I find it to be the insistence of small, minor parties, which have long been history. They want to blackmail you now with five or six votes to put their candidates on such responsible functions, so they can make a prerequisite for themselves in the election campaign when they leave you. Gentlemen of the Democratic Party, I'm telling you, they'll leave you, and then they'll have a ticket on all the media, they'll be able to introduce themselves. Don't let that happen. It's better to wait, no matter how important. Nothing will be lost until the next Assembly, that a little within the DOS, and also on the board, and also MPs a little bit to collect data, especially for newly proposed candidates, so on the basis of making one decision, a decision that is not harmless at all. And you gentlemen, despite the good advice we Serbian radicals give, obviously you have a task, you have instructions. Here's the simplest example, just an example from your proposal - the Executive Greater and the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina; so don't explain to me that it's not a political trade. Well, one candidate suggested an executive council, and the other was proposed by the Autonomous Province. And secondly, this is an incomplete proposal, gentlemen. Each promoter has a memorandum, and here the promoter is signed - the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Nenad Canak (there is no one in the title he signed when he proposed). No, it's a store, it's long known, there's nothing to hide. Nenad Canak has long been blackmailing the Democratic Party, DOS, with its six votes, blackmailed when the government was elected, now blackmailing you again. Unfortunately, you've got a lot of them inside DOS. Now's the chance to cut them off, tell them they can't blackmail you. This is not something that is urgent, this decision can be made in the first next congregation, and you can make it willingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28480	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28481	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had the intention and the desire to show you plastically that I have no confidence in the proposings, which are signatories on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But one of the signatories, who's in the media, escaped when he heard that I was going to go out and that's why I won't even mention the name of that promoter. It would be much clearer to you why there are only six signatures here, and there are 11 members of the Committee on Culture and Information. That's very interesting. So, there is also a proposal to pass through the needle ears, which should be carried out by emergency procedure, even though an information law was passed in July 2002. According to this law, of course, the proponent is obliged to make a decision, i.e. to elect members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Although we Serbian radicals against agencies in principle, especially this agency that would lead to control and censorship over the media in Serbia, over the media sky in Serbia, we believe that this would be far more comprehensive, objective information and media allocations of frequencies, that this would be done by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, if it's not possible for this large body to do so, then we could make some advice within the Committee on Culture and Information, which would do what we do. But this will all be done under the carpet. In fact, this is what my predecessor, Mr. Milorad Mircic, said, is about political trade, because apparently, the law prescribes the selection of nine members of the Council -- at least there are those that the law prescribes, and there are most of them from these NGOs. I would particularly stick to this NGO that is primarily concerned with protecting freedom of speech, protecting the rights of national and ethnic minorities and protecting children's rights. Well, where this NGO has been so far, doesn't it see what's been going on in the media in Serbia for two and a half years, has it ever done anything to inherit a monopoly from previous authorities and focus on the citizens of Serbia to be objectively informed, that they are all equally and evenly represented in the means of information, etc. The media outlets that will compete for frequencies will not be in an equal position, and that is obviously based on the proposed candidates, for which you will make no decision here today without procedure. Because the election procedure of the Council clearly states that the election of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency must be announced, and then elections are made. We have today won a new candidate for the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and, of course, it is not possible to make a choice today, because we were not even able to get acquainted with all the necessary qualifications that this candidate has. But we're asking a question -- where do you lose this candidate, this candidate you've been "networking" where you lose a man you thought you were in the government, another 26th of September 2002, when the government made a decision on a proposal for a member of the Council, and now it's changed that decision and proposed some new candidates. Where did you get lost in six months, those candidates of yours, for which you made a decision in the government six months ago? It can therefore be concluded that there is an inconclusion between the government's proposings and non-seriousness. The only thing you want to do with this proposal is to put under the strict censorship of all those insubordination media, to give listeners frequencies and thus simply create one-of-a-kind ones in Serbia, and that nothing in this country can be said and that freedom of speech remains completely out of public opinion. That is why the SRS parliamentary group cannot accept such flat-rate proposals, because this development strategy, as the proposing representative here said, is in fact a mirror of your rule in general: everything is mixed, unarranged, in haste, and in a very untasteful and undemocratic way. This really looks like you, and we believe that there are still opportunities here to run for this council and citizens, the consumer basket associations, which would certainly be far more objective in determining frequencies, because in this way their will, their bellies, could be presented through the media, which you want to shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28482	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. It is, according to the order of the elected MPs, the last to be declared by word on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28483	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must say I am honestly surprised by the speed of education of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. First, when we established this agenda, you refused to debate at this session even a set of tax laws, but you insisted that this procedure, when it comes to the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, be concluded as soon as possible. Now, just before the start of the debate on this agenda, you informed the Committee on Culture and Informing the National Assembly that one of the proposed candidates is withdrawing his candidacy. I'm not going to go into whether the candidacy has been withdrawn voluntarily, under duress, or just withdrawing an excuse for your change of mind. Your decision has been changed, most likely, because of the letters some of the parliamentary groups in this assembly have received. The letter says that there is a series of indications that he was deeply involved in the illegal licensing of frequencies and so on. That's not the problem, but the problem is that Mr. Petrovic is who he is, and you need him. The only question now is how many such Petrovics remain in this council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. To put aside a little bit of the Council itself, but I think the frequencies that users receive are sources of real wealth revenue for those who betray these frequencies, and God damn it for those who use those frequencies. I can take this as an example of one television from these spaces, Pink TV, which precisely because of the illegal and privileged status of the frequency, created an empire, and its owner, who was the most common bass guitarist, became a multimillionaire. To make things worse, that television, like -- like that, is full of spines in its programme, thus ruining the culture of the Serbian people. I see there's no chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information here right now. To be even more drastic, it is television that uses its own program to defend this current regime, more than the regime itself uses its own state television, or RTS. The problem of the law itself is that there is a bit of a hypocritical provision in this law that members of the Broadcasting Agency's Council can also name representatives of domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech. I say hypocritical, because none of these NGOs in the past month have rebelled for a single time against the senseless heist that members of the government of the Republic of Serbia lead against the SRS and claim that the SRS is involved in organised crime. I don't mind, gentlemen, that you accuse us even falsely, but I have against you giving us only 10% of the space, as much as you take for this slander, to destroy both your lies and your politics. In this, the most fronted by Mr Nebojsa Covic, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, argues that the SRS is involved in organised crime... (President: I warn you to return to the agenda topic. This is the agenda. (President: No, the agenda is the selection of members of the broadcasting council. ) Professor Dr Vojislav Seselj even wrote a book titled "Nobojsa Covic - a poodle of the Serbian mafia".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-11-0.u28484	National MP, based on Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give you your first warning. Are any of the other bosses, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant's representative does not want to give the final statement. Since we have completed a single search on the proposal for a list of candidates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am concluding a single search. I'm setting a 30-minute break, when we'll approach the vote. Please be here at 6:30, so we can vote. [[After break - 18.50.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into your MPs for the purpose of determining the quorum, so that we can access the decision-making process. I figure we have a quorum and we can move on to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the way and procedure of change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (vote) After the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Law on the way and procedure of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in principle. For 130, against 40, the abstentions were not voted by one, out of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the way and procedure of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 129 against 39, the abstentions were not voted by one, out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state orgnance in the subsidisation of organised crime (vote) I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against organised crime, in principle. For 126, against 40, the abstentions were not voted by two, of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to the Committee on Justice and Administration which is proposed to add a new member of the 4a. I would also remind you that the MPs of Ljubisa Kesic and other written amendments that were submitted to Article 3 together and that the debate was not subject to amendments to Articles 2 and 3 submitted by MP Djordje Mamula, which the Legislative Committee rejected. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by Parliament MP George Mamul on 1st. For 40, against 108, with five abstentions, 15 did not vote, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Ljubisa Maravic to member one. For 31, against 117 abstentions, five did not vote 13, out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubisa Kesic and others. For four, against 139, a abstentioned one, did not vote 24, out of a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic as member of the 1st Parliament. For 20, against 121 abstentions, there were no 27 votes, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 2, which were submitted by the MPs Ljubisa Kesic, Sima Radulovic and Milos Lucic. The Committee on Justice and Administration adopted this amendment, with a legal-technical editorial, which was agreed by the applicants of the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. For 45, against 85, with four abstentions, it did not vote 34, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Milan Jankovic on Article 2. For 13, against 135, the abstentions were not voted 20, out of a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 2. No one, against 140, with abstentions, voted 27, out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Gordana Pop-Lazic on Article 3 of the same text. For 38, against 118, three abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP George Mamula and others. For 30, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP George Mamul to article 4. For 29, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 22, out of a total of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 4. For 26, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 168 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Hranislav Peric on Article 5. For 36, against 118, the abstentions did not vote 13, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, in general. For 122, against 42, the abstentions were not, 5 voted, out of 169 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the arms and ammunition laws (vote) I put the draft law amending the Law on arms and ammunition in principle. For 154, there are no 6 abstentions, no vote of 10, out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We need to make a statement about an amendment that has been submitted to this bill. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Joca Arsic to article 1. For 30, against 122 abstentions, there was no 18 vote, out of 170 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting the bill on amending the Arms and Ammunition Act, in general. For 145, against 18, the abstentions, did not vote 8 out of 171 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Arms and Ammunition Act in general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice (voting) I place the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of Justice, in principle. For 124, against 38, with two abstentions, did not vote six, out of 170 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the Law in principle. We approach the vote on amendments. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Hranislav Peric as member of the 1st Parliament. For 41, against 121 abstentions, there was no vote of eight, out of 170 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Slobodan Tomovic on Article 3. For 32, against 116, the two abstentions, did not vote 19, out of 169 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Miomir Ilic and Joca Arsic on Article 4. For 33, against 119, the abstention of four, did not vote 13, out of 169 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MPs Miomir Ilic and Joca Arsic on Article 5. For 39, against 121 abstentions, there were no nine votes, out of 169 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Golub Rajic to article 6. For 34, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 169 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Nebojsa Jovic to article 7. For 34, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 168 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. We approach the decision on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice in general. For 121 against 41, with three abstentions, two of the 167 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecution (vote) I place the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutory in principle. For 121 against 41, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by majority. We're accessing decision-making in detail. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Nebojsa Jovic as member of the 1st Parliament. For 16, against 120, with 23 abstentions, it did not vote seven, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Rajko Baralic on Article 2. For 29, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 18, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. For 38, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dusan Cvetkovic to Article 3. For 33, against 118, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Milovan Radovanovic on Article 3. For 34, against 120, there are no abstentions, 12 did not vote, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 4. For 24, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 28, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Golub Rajic on Article 4. For 31, there are no abstentions against 119, 16 of the 166 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Sreten Mitrovica to article 5. For 32, against 116, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 165 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Golub Rajic to article 6. For 34, against 118, the abstentions did not vote 13, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic to article 8. For 33, against 120, two abstentions, did not vote 10, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to article 8. For 18, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 29, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. For 38, against 117 abstentions, there was no vote of 10, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Nebojsa Jovic to article 9. For 31, there are none against 117 abstentions, 17 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 9. For 22, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 25, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted jointly by MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. For 34, against 119 abstentions, 12 were not voted, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 10, which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Joca Arsic and joint MPs Petar Petrovic and Milos Lukic. For 35, against 118, there were no abstentions, there was no 13 vote, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Branko Ruzic on Article 11. For 32, against 120, the abstentions were not voted 14 out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Rada Bajic on Article 12. For 32, against 118, the abstentions were not voted 16 out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Hranislav Peric on Article 13. For 29, against 116, the abstentions were not voted 21, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Tomovic to article 14. For 30, against 118, a abstentioned one, was not voted 17, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 14. For three, against 115, the abstentions were not voted 48, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 15, which were submitted in the same text by MP Natasa Jovanovic and MP Milan Stankovic. For 25, against 116 abstentions, there was no vote of 26, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic on Article 15. For 35, against 117, a abstentioned one, not voting 14, a total of 167. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put amendments to article 16 tabled in the same text by MP Toma Busetic and joint MPs Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic. For 36, against 118, the abstentions are gone, no vote is 14, a total of 168. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Milos Nesovic to article 17. For 32, against 118, the abstentions were not, 17 did not vote, a total of 167. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic on Article 17. For 35, against 115, with no abstentions, no vote was 18, a total of 168. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to article 17. For 23, against 118, no abstentions, no vote was made 26, a total of 167. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Djura Lazic on Article 18. For 29, against 115, the abstentions are gone, not voted 22, a total of 166. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic on Article 18. For 33, against 117 abstentions, two did not vote 14, a total of 166. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 18. For 24, against 120, with no abstentions, did not vote 23, a total of 167. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on 19th. For 19, against 116, a abstentioned one, was not voted 29, a total of 165. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Milan Stankovic to article 20. For 31, against 118, no abstentions, no vote 15, a total of 164. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 20. For 22, against 115, with no abstentions, no vote was 28, a total of 165. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Hranislav Peric to article 21. For 29, against 119 abstentions, there was no vote 17, a total of 165. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 21 by Parliamentarian Gordana Pop-Lazic. For one, against 138, there were no abstentions, no vote 27, a total of 166. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Djura Lazic to Article 22. For 31, against 120, with no abstentions, no vote was 15, a total of 166. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic and joint MPs Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic in the same text. For 33, against 119 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 165. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendment tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic as member of 23rd. For 20, against 117 abstentions, no vote was 28, a total of 165. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 23rd vote together by the MPs Momir Radoicic and Joca Arsic. For 33, against 119 abstentions, there was no 13 vote, a total of 165. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Milos Lukic and Petar Petrovic on Article 24. For 34, against 115, there were no abstentions, no vote 17, a total of 166. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Srboljub Zivanovic to article 24. For 19, against 118, with no abstentions, no vote was 30, a total of 167. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was tabled by MP Nebojsa Jovic, on Article 25. 30, against 120, no abstentions, no vote 17, a total of 167. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 26. There are no abstentions for 21, not 27, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in general. For 120, against 39, two abstentions, six of the 167 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - I am putting to the vote the draft law on amendments and additions to the criminal law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in principle. For 130, against 31, the abstentions, were not voted six, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in principle. We approach the vote in detail. I remind you that during the search of the draft law, it has been found in particular that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Alexander Stefanovic to Article 17. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled together by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 39, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic as member of the 1st Parliament. For 22, there are no abstentions against 119, 25 were not voted, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted in the same text by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic, and joint MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 35, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 which were submitted in the same text by the People's MP Vjerica Radet, and together by the MPs Gjorge Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 34, against 116, two abstentions, 14 did not vote, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote the amendments tabled by the MPs Milorad Mircic, and joint MPs Gjorđa Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 32, against 114 abstentions, 19 did not vote, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote amendments submitted by MP Petar Jojic on Article 5 of the same text, and joint MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 32, against 113, two abstentions, were not voted 18, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Joca Arsic to article 5. For 13, against 133, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 31, against 110, the two abstentions, did not vote 22, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 6. For 16, against 114, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Milan Jankovic to article 7. For seven, against 135, there are no abstentions, they did not vote 23, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Tomovic on Article 8 of the same text, together with MPs Djordje Mamula, Petar Cvetkovic, Dragan Jocic and Dusan Budishin. For 34, against 114 abstentions, 17 of the 165 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic on Article 8. No one voted for, against 133, the abstentions, 33, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Golub Rajic to article 9. For 27, against 114 abstentions, there was no vote of 25, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 9. It was not against the 139 abstentions, it was not 27, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote, which was proposed to add a new Article 9a, which was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic, after Article 9. For it was not against 132 abstention one, it did not vote 33, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by MP Srboljub Zivanovic on 10th. It was not against 131 abstentions, it did not vote 34, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 11. For it was not, against 136, two abstentions, voted 28 out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic on Article 12. For four, against 131, a abstentioned one, was not voted 30, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic to article 13. For there was no, against 135, abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Colic to article 14. There was no 28 vote against the 138 abstentions, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 15. For there was no, against 135, abstentions, no vote was taken by 31, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the amendments submitted jointly by the People's MPs, Olga Kircanski and others, which proposed that a new member of 15a be added after Article 15a. For 53, against 79, a abstentioned one, did not vote 32, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on Article 16. It was not against 132 abstentions, it did not vote 33, out of 165 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to article 17. There were no, against 133, abstentions, no 33 votes, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srboljub Zivanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting the amendment to vote. No one was in favour of, against 133, the abstentions, not voting 33, of a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. This concludes the decision in detail. I'm putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the SRJ Penal Code, in general. I'm closing the vote. For 130, against 28, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: - I am putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia (vote) to vote on the amendment law and amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, in principle. For 130, against 26, the abstentions, did not vote 10, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments tabled by MP Branislav Blazic on Article 2. It was not against the 137 abstentions, it did not vote 29, out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the Parliament of People's People's Parliament, Zivodarka Dacin, on Article 2. For 43, against 101, the abstention of four, did not vote 16 out of 164 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic on Article 3. For one, against 131 abstentions, 30 of the 162 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 4. There were no, against 130, abstentions, no 30 votes, out of 160 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic on Article 5. For it was not, against 126, the abstentions were not voted 34, out of a total of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to vote the amendments of MP Petar Jojic, who proposed that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. There was no 34 vote against the 128 abstentions, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic, with a correction, to Article 6 to add a new member of the 6a. For 119, against 13, the abstention of four, was not voted 26, out of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote of the amendments tabled by the Parliament of People's People's Parliament of Živodarka Dacin on Article 7, with a correction. For 25, against 115, the three abstentions, did not vote 18, out of a total of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 7. There was no, against 136, abstentions, voted 28 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by the People's Parliament, Olga Kircanski and others, which were proposed to add a new Article 7a after Article 7. For 121, against three, a abstentioned one, was not voted 39, out of a total of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by the MP Sinisa Mitrovic, who suggests adding a new article 7a after article 7. For 126, against 26, the abstentions, did not vote 13, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 9. It was not against the 139 abstentions, it did not vote 26 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, proposing that a new member of the 9th be added after article 9. For 124, against 28, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, with a correction proposing that a new member of 13a be added after Article 13. For 125, against 25, the abstentions were not voted 15, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic submitted an amendment with an amendment, proposing that two new members 13b and 13v be added after Article 13a. For 143 against seven, the abstentioned two did not vote 13, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Branislav Vakic to article 14. For one, against 140, the abstentions were not voted 24 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by MP Lazar Marjanski on Article 16. For four, against 141 abstention, one did not vote 19, out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, in general. For 131 against 28, the abstentions were not voted seven out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: - PROPOSALS FOR FINISHING FUNCTION, CHOICE, NAMES AND DEFINITIONS OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS (vote) Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on proposals for decisions on the termination of functions, choices, appointment and resolution of judicial function holders, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the decision on the number of judges and judges in the courts. For 129, no one with abstentions voted 39 out of 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion to amend the decision on the number of judges and judges of the jury. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the court's duties to the judges of general jurisdiction and special courts. For 124, no one with abstentions voted 42 out of 166. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of office for the public prosecutor's office. For 125, no one with abstentions voted 41, out of 166 in total. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. Since a proposal from the High Council of Justice has been challenged during the search, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall decide immediately on each contested proposal and then on any other undeniable proposals in general, by public vote. I am putting on the vote of the High Council of Justice's proposal to elect Zoran Savic, whose candidacy was challenged by MP Bojan Pajtic, to judge Serbia's Supreme Court. For 108, against one, abstentioned six, did not vote 52, out of 167. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has chosen Zoran Savic as judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges, without proposing that Zoran Tejic be elected as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. For 125, no one with abstentions voted 41 out of 166 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision on the election of judges, without proposing that Zoran Tejic be elected as judge of the District Court in Belgrade. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the Council on the issues of the judicial administration. For 125, no one with abstentions voted 40 out of 165. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect members of the Council on the issues of the judicial administration. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE CANDIDATE OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA FOR THE SELECTION OF A MEETING MEETING OF THE REPUBLICAL AGENCY AND THE SCHOOL OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE REPUBLICAL AGENCY WITH THE CLEANING OF THE PUBLISHERS (vote) Since we have carried out a single search, we approach the decision. I am voting on a proposal for a list of candidates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 156, no one with abstentions voted 12 out of 168. I find that the National Assembly has established a list of candidates of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. Before joining the vote on the proposed candidates, I note that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 23. The Law on Broadcasting elects a total of nine members of the Council on the proposal of authorised proposings, with the ninth member being subsequently elected on the proposal of previously elected members of the Council. Also, I would like to point out that he is a member of 27. The Law on Broadcasting provides for three members to be elected for a period of two years, three members for a period of four years and three members for a period of six years. In doing so, before the National Assembly moves to decide on the proposals submitted, the president of the National Assembly shall by lot determine the authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for two or four years, respectively. Now I'm going to read the names of the authorised promoters with nine CDs, which I'm going to fold and put in the drawware and then do the draw. National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; Parliament of the AP Vojvodina; Government of the Republic of Serbia; Executively Greater Autonomous Areas; Rectors of the University of Republic of Serbia; Association of Broadcasting and Public Voices in the Republic of Serbia, Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, Professional Associations of Film and Drama Artists in the Republic of Serbia and Professional Associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia (the heads of Parliament's groups can come and see if they want); further, domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights; churches and religious communities, and the ninth member of the Council proposed by previously elected members of the Council. I'm approaching the draw and first I'm pulling out three CDs with the names of authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for two years: 1. Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, 2. Executively Greater AP Vojvodina, 3. The government of the Republic of Serbia. I am now extracting three CDs with the names of authorised proposings whose candidates are elected for four years: 1. Broadcasting associations in the Republic of Serbia, journalists' associations in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia. 2. Churches and religious communities. 3. Rectors of the University of the Republic of Serbia. The other three are elected for six years. We move to a vote on the proposed candidates, with a reminder that, under the provisions of Articles 23 and 24. The Law on Broadcasting, the National Assembly of each list of two proposed candidates, elects one, with the candidate elected if most of the total number of MPs voted for his election. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposal - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that candidates are: - Prof. Dr. Vladimir Cvetkovic, a regular professor of the University of Belgrade, and - Ljiljana Smajlović, a journalist from Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Vladimir Cvetkovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 131 against 31, there are no abstentions, no seven votes, of a total of 169 MPs. I find that Professor Vladimir Cvetkovic has been elected a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposal - the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I remind you that the candidates: - Dimitrije Boarov, a journalist from Novi Sad, and - Dr Vladimir Marko, an expert associate in the Vojvodine Chamber of Commerce. I am voting on a proposal to elect Dimitri Boarov as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 29, against 106, the abstentions of nine, were not voted 24, a total of 168 MPs. Since Dmitry Boarov's candidate has not been elected, we will approach the vote on candidate Dr Vladimir Markov, an expert associate in the Vojvodina Chamber of Commerce. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 141, against 23, a abstentioned one, three voted, out of 168 MPs. I announce that Dr. Vladimir Marco has been elected a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised proposal - the government of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that candidates are: - Nenad Cekic, a graduate philosopher from Belgrade, and - Janko Baljak, film director and TV director from Belgrade. I am putting the motion to elect Nenad Cekic as a member of the Council. For 133, against 23, the two abstentions, were not voted nine, a total of 167 MPs. I announce that Nenad Cekic, a graduate philosopher from Belgrade, has been elected member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the mandated proposal - Executively Greater Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I remind you that the candidates are: - Dragana Rogavac, graduate. A lawyer from Novi Sad, and Natalia Sashwari, a journalist from The Tower. I am voting on a proposal to elect Dragan Rogavac as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 130, against 24, the abstentions were not voted 13, a total of 167 MPs. I'm announcing that Dragana Rogavac is a graduate. A lawyer from Novi Sad, elected member of the Council. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by an authorised proposaler -- university rectors in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that candidates: - Professor Aleksandar Todorovic, professor at the Faculty of Drama Arts in Belgrade, and - Professor Miroljub Radojkovic, professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Aleksandar Todorovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For one, against 135, with nine abstentions, 22, a total of 167 MPs were not voted. I find that Professor Aleksandar Todorovic has not been elected. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Miroljub Radojkovic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 151, no one, abstentioned one, voted 13, a total of 165 MPs. I declare that Professor Miroljub Radojkovic has been elected member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised promoter - associations of broadcasting public votes in the Republic of Serbia, associations of journalists in the Republic of Serbia, professional associations of film and drama artists in the Republic of Serbia and professional associations of composers in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you that candidates: - Snjezana Milivojevic, a journalist from Belgrade, and - Nino Brajovic, a journalist from Belgrade. I am putting the motion to elect Snjezana Milivojevic as a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. For 149, no one, with abstentions, voted 18, a total of 167 MPs. I declare that Snjezana Milivojevic, a journalist from Belgrade, was elected member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the author - domestic NGOs and associations of citizens who are overly concerned with the protection of freedom of speech, the protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the protection of children's rights. I remind you that candidates are: - Prof. Dr. Vladimir Vednelic, professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, and - Miljenko Dereta, film director and TV director from Belgrade. I am putting the motion to vote for a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency to be elected by Prof. Dr. Vladimir Vodalić. For 132, against five, with four abstentions, did not vote 25, out of 166 MPs. I would like to announce that Professor Vladimir Vodanelic has been elected a member of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency. We approach the vote on candidates from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised proposal of the church and the religious community. I remind you that the candidates of His Excellency are the bishops of the Jezerian Porphyria (Peric) and Aleksandra Sakov, a graduate psychologist from Belgrade. I am voting on the proposal to elect His Prevestance of the bishops of the German Porphyria (Peric) as a member of the Council of the Republic Radio Diffus Agency. For 130, against 19, with five abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 167. I declare that His Excellency is elected member of the Council of Europe's Porphyria (Peric). Since we have held a vote on candidates' proposals to elect members of the Council, allow me to congratulate on your behalf and my name the elected members and wish them a lot of success in the work. After considering all the points of the agenda, I conclude the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I'll see you Tuesday at 10.00 hours.
