ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31699	Dear Vice President, dear fellow MPs, I'll begin with a little depression. I was at a meeting last night, so they asked me to be at an hour at an appointment, and I said I couldn't, because I have to discuss this law. (President: Please, MPs, let us listen to the Rules of Procedure with respect and the attention of the speakers and give them conditions for work. I said, last night I was at a meeting, he's tied to sports, so today people asked me to be in one hour, also related to sports and the club, to help. But I said I can't, because I have to be in the Assembly today, because I'm talking, among other things, about this law. They know what law is in order, they said - God, there is no law in a country to judge, but for crimes committed against Serbs. I said -- there are neither countries nor there are laws to be passed at one time, that they are tried for crimes against Serbs, as if tens of thousands of homes had not been destroyed, as if hundreds of thousands of Serbs had not been expelled, as if they had not been shot by planes, as if they had not paved those Polish roads by which the blood of these refugees was poured out, no one was guilty, but they were guilty Serbs for defending their country. This court, this law is a disgrace to the law. This is the extended arm of the UN tribunal. This is some out-of-state division of the UN tribunal, and when they took everything they thought they needed to take, by making an alibi for themselves and washing these bloody shirts, and the blood of Serbian from their misdeeds, then they said -- here's the one, a little, if you catch something. That's what they need, because they have all worked hard to prove that the Serb people are a genocide people and to get rid of them, or to wash away that Serbian blood, and to say that they are not responsible for the bombing of this country, for the killings, but that they are Serbs because they are a genocide people, they have committed crimes in Croatia, Bosnia, Kosovo. What do you do now? For a family of Stolic here... And there should be tears shed for every Serb, wherever it is, but now the government has remembered that tears should be shed for the Stolic family, and they haven't shed when thousands of families were killed in Kosovo, by Cypriot terrorists, so when the military and police took protection of those people, then they called for foreign help, as a fairy tale, we fit some laws, past norms, or we provide too much defence to the Serbian people. And what we've been waiting for - for all the Serbian people to move out of Kosovo. Therefore, this is a disgrace to the law. And, let's get this straight: I'm as personal as any of my colleagues, supporters, or a member of the SPS in my soul for being tried for every crime. Every criminal, wherever or whenever he makes it, a crime should be tried and held accountable for the misdemeanor he committed. It cannot be under his Sundays that all Serbian people, even his leadership, were familiar with the crimes and committed crimes. I'll tell you one more detail. I was in Krajina, where they found an intellectual in my village, and they forced him past the church, and they came forward with an axe, and they let him cut the lime that was in the diameter of a meter and a half. I mean, a couple of tens of thousands of strokes of axes in that lime has, he was practically with one blow, like a nail, and eventually he was slaughtered on that stage. That hive was cut off and taken to church, to see how the martyr ended and how tortured those Ustasha criminals were. What do you think, his brother when he was on the battlefield, that he wasn't, in anger when he heard it, maybe he did something he shouldn't have done in normal conditions, but then could it have been assumed that all Serbs were a genocide people, and no one would ever be responsible for making him cut up a hive like that in front of a church in the country. That's why we're going to the point where we've completely trampled the dignity of the Serbian people. It no longer represents anything. It is best to end the history of the Serbian people. Each page of the Serbian people's history says we were just a people who defended themselves. Now let's tear it up, break the history class, break the books, because, practically, we are a people who cannot defend themselves, a people who need to be condemned for defending themselves and going to defend their country. To make it worse, imagine this cynicism, he says - it is honorable to surrender to The Hague tribunal. Well, those men who have been arrested have sworn to defend this country with honor! All of us who went into the army, all those who swore an oath in the interest of this country, swore an oath to defend dignity, honor and land and to defend their people. Suddenly, it is not honorable to do so, but to surrender honorably and to go to The Hague to be judged by those who have destroyed this land, who have poisoned themselves, so the consequences of every day are evident, because of what they have done. Let me tell you something else. Justice will surely be done. I don't know if human, but she's up there, she's got some geometry up there that measures everything, rewards everyone who worked and punishes those who did evil. At that time, the surveyor will give the right punishment to those who are doing it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31700	The word is made by MP Dragan Lazic. Is he present? No, I don't. ) After him, MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Is he present? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Djura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31701	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the formation of The Hague and The Hague tribunal, the time has come for both Belgrade and the Belgrade tribunal to be formed in Serbia or Belgrade or Belgrade's case, to punish all those who have disobeyed, who have dared to defend their country, to defend their homes, to defend their families. In The Hague, we have Carl del Ponte, and who will be in Serbia, Carla del Ponte? That you might not propose to Fjor Brovin, because she knows best what war crimes are? Perhaps you will suggest Kacusha Yasari, who is just as defeated as you are at the 8th session of the Communist Union Assembly. This is where the minister delivers all kinds of information and keeps telling the truth. He's always waving at us some papers, how he's in constant communication with Carla del Ponte, and how he announces by March of the month in The Hague there will be both Chek and Thaci and Haradinaj. Since it is not in March, he says, it will be by autumn, and then it will be again in spring and again by autumn, and yesterday he also said he expects it to be again. I understand this hypocrisy of our minister and his incompetence and inability to take them to The Hague. If he can't take them to The Hague, Cheku, Thaci and Haradinaj, regardless of being friends with Karl del Ponte, then at least he can order Radi Trajkovic not to cooperate with these people. This is the vice president of his party. On the other hand, we're passing this bill, although in the meantime we've freed nearly 2,000 Cypriot terrorists who committed crimes, who were convicted under the SRJ Criminal Code; they've all been taken care of as people, not as criminals, were in prisons, and had breakfast, lunch, dinner, and they've endured penalties for their crimes. We went out to meet the West, freed them all, and Fjor Brovin, and the Mazrek brothers, and not to list the other villains who have committed many atrocities towards Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. You should keep in mind that they were in prisons where their family could come, visit them, see them, visit them, and they should have done their time here. On the other hand, since the arrival of KFOR forces and UNMIK in Kosovo and Metohija, we have a mass of crimes. No Serb family can find one who has disappeared, who has been murdered, who has been kidnapped in this terror that has ruled since allegedly some peacekeeping forces in Kosovo and Metohija. We judge Serbs, and what about the NATO pact crime, what about three months of bombing and killing innocent Serbs across Serbia? We'll amnesty them, most likely some of the following laws. What are we going to do with the crimes in Republika Srpska, and what about the crimes in Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's all one dilemma that we need to talk about, not the crimes of Serbs that they committed. Why should Serbia repent? Should we rebuild the churches of penitence, move out, listen blindly and court the West, the European Community, the Americans? We don't have to do all that. It takes a little bit of Serbian dignity, a national dignity to have and to put an end to this lewdness and this constant shame, ever since this DOS government was formed. The law itself has many ambiguities, many certain assumptions, such as in Article 5, that the war crimes prosecutor will be elected in the National Assembly and conditions sought, where it is said that the public prosecutor has a high moral reputation. What does a high moral reputation mean? As is the problem in Article 15. However, time is very little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31702	The People's MP Đura Lazic has the word, followed by Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31703	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us a bill that is the result of the international community's pressure on power in Serbia. I share the opinion of all my colleagues who have claimed and claim that this law is unnecessary, because the existing Criminal Law, with all the provisions set out in the JVI chapter, provides for acts and criminal proceedings for acts done on this basis. So there was no reason for one such bill to be placed on the agenda and adopted as a special act. As a matter of fact, me and my fellow SPS colleagues are to punish the perpetrators of war crimes under the existing law and the existing provisions of Criminal Law. The separation of this matter into a special law represents your advocacy to the international community, so that it turns out marketingly, as you have, here you have respected their demands and passed a special law and so on, to get some new support. Which international community? From an international community that uses two arches. On the one hand, pressure is being placed on our country and on you to respect the UN tribunal, to deliver everyone the UN tribunal has sought, who has accused and suspected, and even commands you to conduct special processes. On the other hand, your US ally is reporting with a request to sign a special agreement on the non-delivery of US citizens to The Hague tribunal. In my opinion, it's two arches, it's an injustice, and it's cynicism. If there's guilt, then guilt must be the same for everyone and responsibility for everything. Justice can't be different. If this law is passed, we will get Serbia's Carla del Ponte, we will get Serbia's May, we will get Serbia's Cheveningen, and I would call it the new Goli Island. Let's not forget the past, who's all on Goli Island deported and why. I think it is necessary for the motion to preserve this country's dignity, to conduct proceedings under the existing Criminal Law, and to withdraw this bill from the procedure. One more thing, I'm asking you, how are you going to stand now that the Americans are pressuring to sign an agreement on the non-delivery of their citizens to the UN tribunal? The European Union is asking you not to. What if now, and I am convinced that you will ease the pressure of the United States, and in that case, the UN tribunal which has been illegally formed must be abolished and illegally tried by Serbian patriots in a war that has been imposed precisely by those who are taking the court. For me, the absurd provisions in this law are in Article 14, for example, which speaks of a protected witness, that a witness may appear from another country and be protected through a video conference link. Those who wish to accuse someone of finding a man to charge through a conference relationship without the suspect or the accused being able to cross-examination or face the person concerned. So, there is an opportunity for many manipulations and for many unargued charges against suspects or those perhaps this special prosecutor will charge, and so on. Also, I think it would be absurd for us to adopt this law, because it will turn out that what others couldn't do should be done by ourselves. From the Emperor Murat, when they could not conquer us, then they said give the Serbs to the Serbs, they will do the best work in the name of those who wish to destroy Serbia. Isn't this law a hoax again, that we're going after each other again? And how many more? When there are regular members and provisions in the existing Criminal Law for the trial of these acts, why the special law? I believe that this law is imposed and that it will not do any good to this country, that only by this law do you obey the orders of those who want to bring down the dignity of this country and this people to the end. I'll discuss the individual members in more detail in the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31704	The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic, followed by a national envoy, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the so-called UN tribunal, which was formed just over 10 years ago, to judge Serbs and the entire Serb people, led by the chief prosecutor, Richard Goldstone, and then changed over Louisa Arbur, to this greatest monster, Carla del Ponte, was illegally formed as an ad hoc tribunal by UN Security Council decision, without a decision from the General Assembly. This reminds us overwhelmingly of today's political reality and the fact that we have an illegal and illegal assembly in Serbia, and that you and this one, as well as all other laws, which you have voted back more than a year ago as it lasts, will vote; you will vote something that represents the greatest disgrace for every honorable man, let alone a representative of the people in the highest legislative body, but it does not surprise us, because Serbian radical foreigners and all people who love the country of Serbia are well aware of the ways of your betrayal. We were not surprised yesterday by Vladan Batic. We who have been involved in Serbia's political life since 1990, so we know Vladan Batic, we know his plots, we know all of you who later have come from stakes and ropes to represent the citizens here. Some have been promoted quickly, some have given themselves a sense of some strength and size, but all of this is something that has been recorded in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism and something that will cost you as expensive as it has been since September of the month, because you, gentlemen of the DOS, since 2000, have not had any sense of political reality, nor of what the people think, etc. Even this "secret agent Izzy", Cedomir Jovanovic, vice-president of the government, so the children call him, he is only acceptable to the children as a secret agent, dared several months ago on state television to say something that is indeed a fact, and devastating to you: that, according to all the surveys, whoever conducted them in Serbia, more than 80% of Serbian citizens against any co-operation with so-called. The Hague tribunal, against any extradition of our citizens to the Serbian case. It was best shown by the fact that women of middle age, older, children, young men, began from 16 to 25, 26, to defend one of the Serbian heroes, Colonel Veselin Sljivancanin. What will only hurt you, and thus Batic's friend, the villain, Carla del Ponte, will show up on July 3rd, when so-called. a status conference for the Chetnik Duke by profession, by the education of doctors and professors of legal science, when he will begin with the full disclosure of the so-called The Hague tribunal. What Dr Vojislav Seselj left for us in the amanet, not only for us Serbian radicals, but for the whole of Serbia, is to deal with this evil called DOS to the end. At a farewell rally where more than 100,000 people, in the capital, in Belgrade, apologized to citizens who came to escort him as one of Serbia's largest nationalists and heroes, who honourably defended Western Serb nations with over 10,000 volunteers. On that occasion, he said he was sorry that he did not stay with his people until the end of the DOS deal, but as time passed, starting in March of the month, so to speak, the process is being accelerated and the Serbian Radical Party is, I am sure, at the head of the general national dissatisfaction, which today will culminate in Belgrade through the gathering of nearly 100,000 workers you left without bread, without the possibility of surviving. The most honorable thing for every Serb, for every Serb sister, is for the mother to escort a Serb soldier, and to wish him the best in defending every inch of the Serbian country. We did it and we were proud of it. We sent our volunteers with great pride, but with a chill when they would return, but we knew that they would eventually fight to defend every inch of Serbian territory. They defended both the volunteers of the Serbian Radical Party and the reservers and all those who knew that the Western Serbian border line was not what declared by the Duke Seselj, but what was recognised by the London Agreement in 1915, and the army even arrived behind on the Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica line. These people, volunteers of the Serbian Radical Party, and from Somboro alone, 36 volunteers gave and laid their lives on the altar of the country, not only of Serb nationality, but also of Hungarians and other members of national minorities, knew it was a western Serbian country, and the vast majority of people today know that the territory is only temporarily occupied and that it will eventually have to return to Serbia. It's not illusions, it's not a playful dream, it's something that's existed since the world and the century, like the fact that in the 15th century they've been recorded as the greatest villains, like the greatest villains, who have tortured babies of two years of age by pulling their hands and legs from one side to the other, Ustasha villains. No such Ustasha villain can be a friend, no honorable Serb can go to Ustasha chief Mesic for a bowing, and this has been done before by you, by his inauguration, by friendship with Racan and by other representatives of the Ustasha Croatian authorities. That's why we know well what's funny to you, what you view as people who really don't have a single shred of morale or the integrity of one Serb and members of their nation and their homeland, which is that both the next elections and all that our president and other Hague prisoners will do will show that you are the greatest disgrace for honorable Serbia, and through the history of the Serbian people, no such traitors have appeared. This law is only a drop in the sea, to go to Montgomery, who blackmails you to sign a bilateral agreement by July 1st, and he will in return speak to your brothers from the so-called "Bilateral Agreement". Bosnia and Herzegovina... (President: National MPs, time spent at their disposal. )......................................................................................................... and from the Ustasha Croatian state to drop the lawsuit against us, us Serbs who have suffered badly through all wars before, and especially in the last country war, and especially under the evil bombs of the NATO Pact. Be assured that, just like our president, we will persist in this struggle and that the overall difficult misery, economic and social situation, along with this unrecorded betrayal in the history of Serbs, will cost you 23 September.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31706	National MPs, it's eight minutes. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hranislav Peric, followed by MP Zoran Angelkovic, and this is the last registered speaker on the list by application for a word in principle search. Time at the disposal of the parliamentary group for the last two speakers is 14 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, there could be a question of why this issue is regulated by a special law. It is known that every modern legal system tends to codify related legal norms rather than produce a large number of laws that regulate the same legal matter. We have the Code of Criminal Procedure here, we have Criminal Law, we have special laws on the jurisdiction of state authorities, we have a law on war crimes. Why does that seem? It's not about any legal reasons. It is essentially about political reasons and the need to ensure, through some separate, separate legal institutes, the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary, the prosecution and the courts. All of what is proposed as a solution to this law on war crimes procedures could have been done through normal changes to existing laws. Why didn't it happen anyway? In my opinion, because something else is going to be achieved, which is to ensure greater impact of the executive authority, specifically the Justice Ministry, on some organisational and other solutions that are being made within the framework of these state bodies, courts and prosecutors. The prosecution is still being disintegrated. A special part of the prosecution is now being created, which is only responsible for the conduct of war crimes. New special departments are being re-made, but, unlike the existing laws governing the judiciary and the prosecution, special control of the justice ministry is being introduced through consent to the internal normative acts of those bodies, which are related to the internal organisation. So, you will see, this is what Article 6 of this Law says, and this is what Article 11 of the Law says, consent is required from the Ministry of Justice for acts brought by the courts and prosecutors regarding the internal organisation and internal relations in those bodies, which is absolutely contrary to the principles of the division of power, as our Constitution has set it. But what is particularly important is that we exempt war crimes proceedings from the jurisdiction of regular courts and prosecutors and transfer them to special authorities, and we prescribe this law what is considered a war crime. From the point of view of one country's sovereignty, that's unacceptable. Article 2 of the Law stipulates that this law provides for the application of the GLAD of the Criminal Code, which speaks of war crimes, but Article 3 of this Law states that this applies only to acts carried out in the area of the former SFRY. What does that mean? This means that a country that has been victimized by the NATO Pact's aggression has denied the trial of war crimes committed by the people -- NATO or NATO's pact to the people of this country and this country. That would not be done by any sovereign country that holds a reputation. Our position is extremely specific. At this point, Serbia-Montenegro is asked to sign an agreement with the United States that it will not extradite the citizens of the country to a permanent International Criminal Court, but this seems another step further than that, it is hereby denied and the right to judge these people in the area of this country, because it is indeed a precedent and a hidden norm, and it is not written anywhere in the explanation, it is hidden and it has been entered into in this text, but it must be seen because this is the essence of what is proposed. So, you saw, the law says that our courts are judging for these acts, so from Head of JVI, and everything else that happened in this country, and it's known that it was at war in 1999, how is it now suddenly that our courts can judge for what they couldn't do a while ago? How is it that now our courts and our judiciary have become capable? Since this is no longer a talk of international rights, there is no mention of a court in The Hague in the text of this law and no explanation? How are we suddenly able to judge after the extradition of Sljivancanin, Simatovic and Stanisic, as well as other persons who were interesting? You know, it's becoming a political issue. That can't be seen as just a personal question, who will be tried here. The Hague is no longer interesting, because it's got what it wanted and it's the only way to explain this relationship to these issues. So there are no other reasons here, it's just said that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are determined by law to act, and no restrictions are provided, except that in the last provision of the law, Article 21, states that the procedures will begin where they begin. This means that what the Hague has started to end, if someone started with us, I mean the court in Capac, in Prokuplje, it will end and everything else goes to court in Belgrade. Why don't we mention The Hague, too, that's where The Hague belongs. So what The Hague started has to end, as we explain in the bill. This is the best confirmation that the SPS was right when it initially claimed that these acts should be tried by our courts and that there were no legal interferences in our laws, because now it is seen if these interferences existed, in which they consisted, because nothing in the law was done which would be a real removal of these interferences. About the prosecution, too, nothing is essentially new. The D.A. could've done a normal personnel schedule and tried for these actions, if he wanted to, he could've educated a special unit, and he could've done that without picking out a new special prosecutor. We now have three prosecutors in the system: one in charge, we have organized crime, we have war crimes now, so that's nowhere to be found, please. We are disputing the prosecution to ensure control of him by the executive, because the Unity of the Prosecutors is not possible to provide and his role is fully denied and a picture of the special authorities is being created to prosecute crimes and declare what these crimes are. Of course, there is still going on, it is proposed that the prosecutor be elected by the Assembly, the deputy is elected by the prosecutor, and so the strict conditions are set, it is said - there must be conditions for the district attorney. Constitutional provisions for the prosecutor to be elected by the National Assembly are literally understood, not to elect deputies, the prosecutor is a function rather than a personal question and a status issue. The deputy is acting as a prosecutor, and there's no reason for him to be the one to be the clerk appointed there by some boss. It's absurds that only need to provide something else. Here, it is, in my opinion, what represents the true essence of such a regulation, although in practice it is shown in a completely different way, as a form of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Please, co-operation can only be equal organs, I cannot co-operate with non-equal bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31708	National MP Zoran Angelkovic is not present. This has exhausted the list of parliamentary groups, since they have no longer been reported for the word. I ask, do the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right? National MP Dragan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? Someone else who hasn't used his right to Article 89?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31709	It is not possible that the other representatives were left without text after such a reasoned debate on the draft law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in proceedings against the war crimes offenders? At the end of the debate, I want to underline once again what is most important in the SPS's views of potential war crimes perpetrators in the events that we were exposed to in the previous 10, 12, and even earlier years. So, the SPS has nothing to say that war crimes perpetrators don't have to bear responsibility for their misdemeanors. We cannot justify what has been done since the DOS came to power, which is taking the blame on us, on Serbs, on the state of Serbia, on the citizens of Serbia for all war crimes committed at the premises of the former SFRY. So, even so far, according to the provisions of the criminal procedural law, under the provisions of the Criminal Code of the SRJ, which is now renamed the Basic Criminal Code, according to this bill, the basic criminal acts against humanity and international law are being smuggled in the JVI chapter of the Basic Criminal Law. So far, there have been grounds to prosecute any war crimes perpetrators before the district courts. And they're being led. Yesterday, as I recall, in a statement, the minister mentioned several examples and I would not like to repeat them. However, the essence of the adoption of special laws is in presenting our state ready to co-operate with some Hague tribunals and neglecting one fact that we are already the principles of the Constitution guaranteed the unity of a judicial system which is only competent, as a single state body, to judge. We've already formed special state bodies to fight organized crime. From that legal point of view, special organs are now being formed that will process war crimes perpetrators. I'm pleased to find out that the minister is writing, and perhaps he will honor my smallness and answers. Is this supposed to mean that we will soon have provisions to create special state bodies to combat the crimes of white collars? Does that mean we'll have special prosecutors, special judicial council, special detention units for the perpetrators of the so-called. political crime? (Vladan Batić: We will for you. ) The holder of the government. Crimes of buses of poner, Mr. Minister. So there's that in the west. Will we, in such a disastrous way, break up the unity of our judicial system, take some solutions from the Anglo-Saxon legal system and incorporate them into our continental law and thus create a mixture that will mean absolutely nothing? No one will know who can chase him, what, in what way, will a special prosecutor pursue him on one basis, on another basis, and whether it will all be in one function, and that function will be called the preservation of power. In particular, in the light of this bill, it is said that the aim of passing this law is more effectively to carry out proceedings against persons charged with war crimes. Well, couldn't the amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure or the Law on Courts be imposed on the competent judicial authorities, the competent investigative authorities to act more effectively on the prosecution of potential war crimes perpetrators, or must be brought to the only factory that works in Serbia, which is this political factory, this parliament, the only factory that works and meets the criteria prescribed abroad. Is it necessary to approach the adoption of some laws, such as the one on the agenda today, such as the one on organised crime, when we have tried every possible reasoned way and most correctly possible to warn you that you should not apply any solutions that are contrary to international law, when you disobeyed us, so after a month or how many days you still had to press the international public to adopt those solutions? Are we going to create some kind of institution this time, some kind of solution that will not be in the interest of raising the credibility of our country, which will only be there to show that we are ready for co-operation, no matter what the pressure for co-operation has been on us? Therefore, in order to be more effective in the conduct of proceedings against potential war crimes offenders, the Law on Criminal Procedure could be amended, the Law on Judges, Criminal Law, Fundamental or Republical, and not passed a special law. On the other hand, I can't help but notice that in that, least of all, service to the interests of the so-called so-called. The UN tribunal, many solutions taken from the UN tribunal's Statute, has tried many times to take over some of the ways in which The Hague tribunal works. The first thing that falls into the eyes is about Article 3 which says that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are determined by this law to conduct proceedings against the perpetrators of the crimes committed on the territory of the former SFRY. Does this mean that these state authorities will not be able to conduct actions against war crimes offenders during 1999 in the territory of Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija, those who have committed aggression against our country? A further flight review of the provisions of this bill shows that special authorities are being established by special authorities from special persons who will be paid multiplely only to carry out more effectively the procedure for the prosecution of persons who have potentially committed war crimes. It says here that a war crimes prosecutor is elected. He's chosen by the National Assembly, but you can't see who's proposing him. Perhaps a minister, a valid public prosecutor, a republican public prosecutor, who? You can't see that from the bill. He's setting up a deputy prosecutor, and I'm a prosecutor. Could it have resorted to any other solutions? Our view of this law came out of our opinion that such a proposal for a special law created by special authorities was not necessary, but that, in the context of existing solutions in the judicial system, if it is in someone's interest, the potential perpetrators of war crimes could be prosecuted more effectively. We also have to realize that there are many misunderstandings here in this law. So we have submitted amendments to delete each member. This law on the Socialist Party of Serbia is not acceptable, nor is it an acceptable principle to create a special judicial system and special law enforcement bodies, a special institution for special crimes. But if we look at Article 9, we can see that the conduct of criminal cases under Article 2 of this Law is the jurisdiction of the District Court in Belgrade, as first-degree, and the decision in the second-degree is directly the Supreme Court. If we go back a little bit to the provisions of the Court Act, whether the Supreme Court is directly the Supreme Court, whether the Court of Appeals have been established, we know that they are not, and that further brings us to one situation of absurdity which can mean additional complications. Furthermore, Article 14 introduces provisions that the witness hearing can be conducted through video conference links. In accordance with the principle of publicity, it is necessary to allow the defendant's right to defend himself, to hear, to look into the eyes of him who burdens him for the works he places on his soul. Will he be able to defend himself through a conference link, and is that protection of defence rights? It's not. There is no such thing in our judicial system, not even in the continental judiciary. You can also decide on the protection of personal data, in particular, the institute of a protected witness is being introduced by Article 15. It's about the rules of procedure. Special detention unit for the maintenance of detention in a certain criminal procedure. Why a special detention unit? Can't these detention units be in the function of this? (President: National MP, time has been spent for your presentations. ) The Benefiated Job Internship and the special type of prize through high salaries for officials in these state bodies also paints the intention of this law. So, stick to those who seek and want to accuse us Serbs of the perpetrators of all war crimes and crimes at the premises of the former SFRY and blame the Serb people. Because of this, the Socialist Party of Serbia will not accept and will not support such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31710	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31711	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we've been hearing for two days is a complete paradox at the level of theater absurdes. So, all those who have objected for years to conduct the proceedings before The Hague tribunal and have requested that the procedures be conducted here now give arguments against. So, everyone declares themselves to be tried by war criminals. Everyone declares themselves to be tried by all war criminals. All of them are for all war criminals to be tried in front of our courts, but those of the opposition, who have spoken here, are against the passing of such a law that enables all war criminals, wherever these war crimes have been committed in the premises of the former SFRY and regardless of their nationality, or nationality, to be tried before our courts. It's absurd and it's a continuation of false patriotism. So those who are against this law are for our countrymen and our citizens to still be tried in The Hague. Vote against this law - the vote by The Hague tribunal. So if you vote against this law, you vote for The Hague tribunal. Those stories are something that's already been seen. We know how it ended. Unfortunately, some would like to keep telling the same stories. One more thing, no one suggested this to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The idea of passing this law is absolutely the one that is now speaking to you from this pay phone, the minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am an absolutely authentic promoter and no official of the international community has been discussed before the realization of this idea. Why was that done? To simply show that we have a new state of consciousness, to accept some European standards, that we can build institutions capable of being compatible with some European standards and with some European principles. This law, I repeat once again, refers to all war crimes committed in the territories of the former SFRY and refers to all who committed them, whether they were citizens of some of the states in the territory of the former SFRY or some foreign state. What does that mean? This means that this law will allow some persons who have committed war crimes to the harm of Serbian and Serb citizens to be tried here. Maybe directly, maybe in absentia, and you're against it. This puts the question of the realisation of compensation for damages, etc. Someone either doesn't want to read the law or they don't want to think about what's in the law. This law even allows Albanian war criminals, for which for the thousandth time I repeat that Europe's largest since World War II, is being tried here. I asked Steiner to surrender to our judicial authorities, Thaci, Cheku and Haradinaj, because there are charges, and there are even convictions for terrorism, for assaulting constitutional order and for genocide that they have committed. Officially - it is legal that procedures could be conducted so far. We have a normized crime and I repeat once again that this applies to everything, no matter where they were committed, to all war crimes. There's no exception to being tried for some and not for others. For the most difficult and for all those who are scheduled not only for the UN tribunal's statutes, not only of the basic criminal law, former Criminal Law SRJ, but also of the 1949 Geneva Convention. Why are courts like this, trained, specialized, profiled? A higher level of security is needed, a uniform court practice is needed, it needs to avoid pressure on the court, there is a very active Hague brotherhood here. These great heroes who hide in some mouse holes and who are the idea makers of the plot and attempts at a coup that ended in the death of Zoran Djindjic, they will easily press a court. There has been pressure on the District Court in Prokuplje, and therefore the conduct of these processes has been moved to the Prokuplje District Court in Belgrade. That's reality, that was reality. So that's why it's supposed to be prosecuted in front of a court, and it's the trial before a court that suggests that we don't believe there's going to be much of that kind of procedure, but we want Europe and the world to show our willingness and our maturity that this difficult and unpleasant work we do ourselves. Specialization is needed, as is necessary for organised crime. We didn't have organized crime until a few years ago. Until a few years ago, we didn't have any war crimes. The laws that were made, the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, had neither organized crime nor war crimes in mind. And right now, let me tell you in advance that we're going to create specialized judicial bodies to fight corruption and that is not at all a decommissioning of the legal or judicial system. It is precisely the desire to find before the face of justice all those who have sinned against the law. There were also some ugly findings of donations through the Justice Department, to remove it once and for all. Not a single dollar, dollar, cent, stamp, never came into the Justice Department's register from abroad. The only protocol I signed was with the German government to reconstruct the Supreme Court building, but directly the German government hired contractors, no contract with it is the rule of the Justice Ministry. He mentioned a Greek donation. It was some Greek assistance to the judiciary, but not during the time of this government, but during that three-way government, transitional, between October 5th and January 25th. Some investigations have been carried out and the money ended up in the register of the federal administration, in the cash register of the former SRJ. So these are all rational reasons why one of these laws should be passed. I repeat once again, who is against this law, is to continue the trial of our people in The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31712	I hereby conclude the search in principle and, in accordance with Article 136(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. To the name of the law, the name of the Head and "Introductory Provisions" and Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 1 and to the name of the law and the title above Article 1, asking to be deleted. The reasons for this are that the very name of the law suggests that the law refers to the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in proceedings against war crimes offenders, prejudged in advance that someone committed a war crime and that he was a war criminal, not respecting the fundamental constitutional arrangement that no one was guilty until the verdict was found guilty, so if the government and wanted one of these laws, he had to refer to the suspects that they committed war crimes. We have given you many arguments in principle that this law is too high in our legal order, that it is one political law and that it will cause great damage to our country, believing that you have brought the law under the pressure of the international community and, in particular, the UN tribunal. It is obvious the will of the parliamentary majority to pass the law. The consequences will not only apply to the parliamentary majority, but to the entire Serbian public, i.e. to all citizens of Serbia and of course to the state of Serbia. Then we will have the opportunity to see it very quickly and face it. Then who will be responsible for this policy. In addition, Article 1 provides that this law regulates the education, organisation, jurisdiction and authority of the national authorities and their organisational units in order to detect and prosecute the perpetrators of the criminal offences set out in this law. Article 2 The Code of Criminal Procedure tells us that a criminal offence can only be brought to justice by a competent court in a procedure that has been initiated and implemented under this law, is meant by the Code of Criminal Procedure, not by some special law, such as this law. The minister tried to convince us that this law would allow both Thaci and Haradinaj, he forgot Bajram Rexhepi, who would have to fall under the jurisdiction of a court like this which would obviously be formed, but did not tell us whether Norac and Ante Gotovina would also be able to answer by this law, or whether only Serbs would answer before this special court of justice, based on the testimony of some of whom the suspect would not know who they were or what they were called from or from, therefore, false witnesses, through a video of a conference link that no longer exists anywhere in the world. Will Solana be able to comply with this law and according to this NATO bombing law in 1999? The question is, why do we have to pass this law if we have a basic criminal law that provides for the criminal acts that this law applies to in Chapter JVI? It's not true what the minister said, that we didn't have any crimes planned as war crimes until recently. In Glava JVI, crimes against humanity and international law which have been the subject of this law, 19 crimes since 1993, some are foreseen in 1990, only penalties have been changed in 2001. Therefore, no new criminal offences are introduced and this law refers to the criminal acts of the Head of the Basic Criminal Code. (President: Are you also using five minutes as deputy president of the parliamentary group? ) You see how the Italians caught, somewhere abroad, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, pilot Šisic, and sentenced him to 40 years in prison for a crime they qualified as a war crime, because a helicopter was shot down at the time of NATO bombing, when there was an Italian citizen on board. Our country, of course, has done nothing about it. We didn't think he was a war criminal, it was a war condition, he had a command to do it. It was a no-fly, but they just came to a man, arrested him, convicted him, and finished the job as far as their public's concerned. Shall we seek the extradition of Norc or Gotovina from Croatia, to judge them by this law? I doubt it. I don't believe our government is ready for something like this. She showed her attitude towards war criminals the moment she released 1,900 Shipara, whom she could, under the existing law of the Criminal Law, judge and condemn them for war crimes and prove in a procedure that was regular in front of our courts that they committed war crimes. We don't need a court to judge war criminals. We need a court to judge a number of Serbs who participated in the defence of the sacred Serbian nation, their people, in order for the international public to know that so many people have been convicted in Serbia for the crimes of genocide or for any crime considered a war crime, and that, of course, will be an excellent support for the procedure conducted before the International Court of Justice in The Hague for the compensation of the war damages that Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia are seeking from our country. How smart is it to do this? We tried to convince you, and we'll try to explain the amendments to convince you once again that we shouldn't do it. I repeat, we do not consider that there is no possibility that there is individual criminal responsibility and that it is possible that someone has committed an act that can be qualified as a war crime, and it can be proven in a regular procedure and before regular courts, but in this way and with a law like this, it is not good to do. The consequences will be catastrophic and will not only apply to our generation, but to many generations that come behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31714	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to the same article was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Will you also use time as an authorised representative? As vice president, all right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31715	Ladies and gentlemen, our general view of this law is that it is not acceptable from the point of view of our legal system and that is why we have submitted amendments for all members of this bill to be deleted. Indeed, Article 1 provides that this law regulates the education, organisation, jurisdiction and authority of the national authorities and their organisational units in order to detect and prosecute the perpetrators of the criminal offences set out in this law. That, as it says, assumes that our state and our judicial system, nor our real law enforcement bodies have so far had the opportunity to prosecute any war crimes perpetrators, which is not true. It is not an exact claim by the distinguished Mr. Minister, who is unfortunately no longer in the O.R., that the one who votes against the law is that war crimes offenders are being conducted in The Hague. Practice shows different. In our country, actions have already been taken against war crimes perpetrators. These procedures are being conducted. If there were evidence of pressure on the court and the law enforcement authorities, the prosecution had to be approached by greater and stronger security measures for those bodies to protect themselves from these pressures. There is no need to pass a special law at all, to establish new state bodies, and that already all the preconditions exist for the district prosecutors, for district courts to deal with the issues of the persecution of potential war crimes perpetrators. As a result, it is too high to regulate the education of special law enforcement authorities, namely the detection of the perpetrator of war crimes. We think it's already possible that our country is processing potential war crimes perpetrators. We don't think the Hague tribunal should be responsible for that. We are in favour of just respecting the provisions of the Basic Criminal Code (formerly the Criminal Code of the SRJ) and the Criminal Procedure Act, too, of the Public Prosecutor's Law. That's the essence of our attitude. That's why we suggested that this article 1 be deleted. Repeat once again, there is absolutely no claim that whoever is against this law is for The Hague tribunal. It's a lie, mildly said. There are all assumptions about the processing of potential war crimes perpetrators, and that's the only truth. He who thinks differently lies first of all to himself. Furthermore, I must say that this is also one of the evidence that such a law is passed for political reasons, not for legal reasons, because there are legal preconditions for the prosecution of the perpetrators of war crimes, but there is political pressure on the current DOS government in our country, which will only be a little more power, to approach the constitution of special authorities and to acknowledge that the MUP, the public prosecutor's office and the judiciary has so far not prosecuted the perpetrators of war crimes. Also, this can show one contradiction that was heard from Mr. Secretary's exposure. Are we in a position to prosecute foreign citizens by this law, and will such a situation be present when such a law is eventually passed? I highly doubt the current authority will access any foreign citizen's criminal prosecution. This is a law that will allow us, more specifically the DOS government, to be presented as ready for political compromises and to accept the conditions or pressures that come from abroad. Unfortunately, some laugh, but that's how it was with the Law on Organized Crime, and after a month, we saw that you adopted everything you said. Hand to heart, if the goat lies, the horn doesn't lie, the stenograms are there, so read it. Whoever doesn't believe will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31716	The word comes from MP Zoran R. Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31717	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, because he warned me not to listen, but I know what the minister is going to talk about here, because he's been talking about this for a few months now, that this law is going to be passed. It wasn't a dispute. However, when it comes to this member of the law at all, why did we propose to delete it, I must say and remind myself, we have been saying all these years that we are against the UN tribunal and that we believe that our judiciary is qualified to judge crimes against humanity. I'm using a term written in Criminal Law. Next, we've done it, and for that, we've got able judges, we've got a capable court. Of course, it always takes improvement, and it's never been a dispute. It's always taken better technical equipment, but it's necessary for people who are accused and who are to be charged with war crimes to be tried here, in front of our domestic justice. Therefore, when we speak against this law, we have no doubt that our political position is to prosecute all charges related to war crimes here in the country. Why do we propose to delete this member and why are we against this law? It's quite clear, because this law and this member simply goes as if the bombing was yesterday, as if the country didn't exist, as if no law existed, as if we had no judges, no prosecution, nothing, and that we should start and build from the beginning. As my friend says, my friend, even by saying this article, and this law does not solve a court case, it is not resolved by the court, it is not resolved by reason or, better say, a criminal offence; it is decided only by who is to sue and who is the prosecutor, and the separation of the prosecution continues, in order to make it easier to influence the prosecutor's office. When you have ten prosecutors for ten different things, for organized crime, war crimes, for Mark, the Yankee, rain, water, the sun, then you have ten prosecutors, and from those ten to five you'll influence. When you have one, if you can't influence it, there's nothing you can do. That's the point. And if that were the case, we heard it yesterday. For seven years, I was deputy head of the Parliament Club and a year head of the Parliament Club and I didn't know that my function was an investigative authority and that I had the right to listen to people in Central Prison. I didn't know that. I was wrong, I was ignorant, I don't know, I didn't know, but I didn't really know that. When we get this many public prosecutors with different functions and with this kind of explanation, then it looks like all MPs will begin to be assistant prosecutors and write applications and conduct the procedure. What's going on? It's the least, the snitch, it's petty, it's the assistant deputy prosecutor who's actually going to run the case and file criminal charges and run criminal charges. That's the difference. The snitch, that's the side. What's going on with this article, even with this law? It's not a crime of war crime that's being solved and that we couldn't judge. We were judging, the day before yesterday we completed one process for the crime against humanity, against this group, when it comes to the Cup, and I'm talking about Serbs. I don't know who released the 1,700, and I personally watched the tape, saw their statements, so you're going to say that I was wrong back then, but I couldn't believe what they were saying. Ears cut, I can't tell everything they've been doing here, because it would be so disgusting. If I told you what they said on the video, what those two brothers were doing, released in that 1,900-free group. Why didn't we judge them for war crimes? We didn't have the law. It's not true, we had the Code of Criminal Procedure, we had the Head of the JV, and we had where it's said to be tried by all those who commit crimes against humanity. That's not true, we didn't have it before, so that's why we didn't predict it in law. We were meant to judge crimes against humanity. This law does not solve any of it. He will be tried by that member and by that law, only a new prosecutor will conduct the case. This could be called not for war crimes, but for the state's war crimes prosecutor's law. In that case, we could talk about whether this law can work like this or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31718	National MP, you have not given an amendment to the name of the law, but to Article 1. It would be good to talk about the content of the amendments in the debate. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31719	In this amendment, the Serbian Radical Party has requested that Article 2 be deleted, as we ask for this law to be withdrawn from the assembly procedure and that no one ever remembers that it was on the agenda. If you look at what the promoter wrote in Article 2, then you see that there are mental problems relative to the name of the law. Why? In Article 2, the Proposer indicates that it is criminal acts of Chapter JVI of the Basic Criminal Code, which are crimes against humanity and international law. If you're already doing this, then in the title of the law, you should've said it was a law on organs, but against humanity and international law, not war crimes perpetrators, because that's what the UN tribunal has avoided. When the Security Council formed The Hague tribunal, it gave a largely long name to the tribunal, but nowhere did it use the words war crimes, but serious violations of humanitarian law, etc. I heard here he'll be tried by strangers. Why judge strangers when they were already convicted? And Clinton was convicted, and Blair was convicted in absentia, and some were convicted here on the basis of the conduct and their presence, so you passed the Amnesty Act, and Kostunica signed pardons, and some went neither guilty nor due, and it was the works of that Head of JVI. Mr Batic says that this law should show a new state of consciousness. We've always been consciously oriented. Our feature is just a normal consciousness, a healthy environment. We're getting beat up by a voice. You came on October 5th, about which the lady had just thrown. He's always trying to play something that's deviantly portrayed as normal and the way to Europe. He says we should follow Europe and European standards. When did this England take action against one of its soldiers for events? When did France conduct proceedings against one of its soldiers, a member of the Foreign Legion? When did Italy conduct proceedings against a soldier of its own? America led only against one major in Vietnam. Never again. Let's apply these standards. Who in Europe has a special law on the trial of the perpetrators of any criminal acts of war crimes? Nobody. Even Germany doesn't have that law as special. There is only a special law on co-operation with The Hague tribunal, where it delivers foreigners, not its own citizen. It's in their law, it's in the explanation of their minister who had to explain it. Who will judge the Germans in Germany for breaking their constitution and bombing Serbia in 1999? The JVI head has 19 criminal acts. Of these six curves, there are peaceable crimes. To remind you, taking hostages, international terrorism, etc. If we go according to the concept of war crimes, only 12 crimes exist, more than the entire statute of the UN tribunal. He only has three members of the crime scene. The codification that was carried out in 1977 is only a reflection of what exists in our legal system, which is also Geneva and The Hague conventions, which are related to armed conflicts, which are fully contained in all our criminal proceedings. Why a special organ? He says that's how we avoid the pressures. No, that way we'll make three UN tribunals in Belgrade. And he who is for this law is for the establishment of a court that will be more inhuman than the Hague tribunal. Why? Because the UN tribunal with its verdicts will be a matrix for the 2000-judge series here. When someone comes out of the government and says there might be a dozen people to be tried here, why make a special court for 10 people. No, but this court wants to prove that it's an installed crime. That is why we do not allow this special court to be formed and you who raise your hand to this law, make sure that you applaud incorrectly. Don't make a case against your children.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31720	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31721	If Mrs. Chairman doesn't notice what her duty is, that there are no more than 40 MPs in the O.R., maybe it's illusory that we advertise it. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this amendment and the attempt by the Serbian Radical Party to reason on your part that it is not what the minister is talking about after the final debate has said in principle, and that the reasons for the adoption of this law are not some European and world standards that we need to adopt, but just the opposite, that we are creating a precedent under pressure from the international public or perhaps they do not put much pressure on us but our government wants to be so serviced that it does what the international community didn't even think it should do. Maybe there's a problem in the government, not in the international community that the government wants to court. Americans, as my colleague Krasic said, not only have they never tried their citizens for war crimes, except in one case, but they're looking now... (President: People's MPs, I'm sorry. I'm asking you to turn off your cell phones in the O.R. at the assembly session. That's inadmissible. )......................................................................................................... to sign with them a bilateral agreement, that their citizens cannot respond to the International Court of Justice in The Hague for war crimes committed. What's he saying? This speaks in favour of what we claim to be that the standard that allegedly exists in the world exists only in the heads of members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and nowhere else. The saddest thing is, we'll probably sign such a bilateral agreement with America as a state, but that's why we're going to form a particularly larger, criminally bigger one in the District Court to judge alleged war crimes. We will cut the costs the UN has for the trial in The Hague. What has been in The Hague will end as a process by 2008. The court will disbanded. We'll keep having fun about our misery. We will have additional costs under this law and they are really not small funds, and they are unnecessary because, if there are, they could focus precisely on improving the work of existing judicial authorities. If we only need about 250 million dinars here for one quarter, look how long it's gonna take next year, so it's probably going to increase. Appetites are growing. Those who work in this council and these prosecutors will further blackmail the government as far as costs are concerned, and ask the father god how much it will cost to pay these imaginary witnesses and allegedly damaged. The Serbian government once again has a chance, here until the debate is concluded in particular, to withdraw this shameful bill and to allow our judicial authorities to work in accordance with the existing Criminal Law and in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, not to harm our country, and if they persist in this, they will bear all responsibility, of course not only politically, we will see what, in the future, for the damage that will surely cause the entire state and the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31722	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word for George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31723	I see the minister isn't in the O.R. He interrupted the MPs in a conversation to hear it, and now that he needs to hear the others, he's out. But what a minister like that and behavior. As for Article 2, he reads: "This law is applied for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal acts laid down in the Head of the JVI of the Basic Criminal Code". The explanation for Article 2 states: "Article 2. The bill accurately determines the crimes in which the disclosure applies the provisions of this law." Well, they don't determine exactly. That is why we have proposed an amendment that reads: "This law is also applied for the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators of the crimes provided for in Article 5. The Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia." So if Mr Batic says at a press conference that the UN tribunal will leave certain cases to this state, then this state must also have jurisdiction over what the justice minister should know. In the light of our amendment, it is said - the bill does not contain the possibility that domestic law enforcement and prosecution of crimes and courts lead the proceedings for crimes against humanity, which are within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. So it's very clear why we suggested this. From this formulation, the court that will be formed will not judge all acts. On the other hand, crimes still happen. So how come the minister stands behind this member like this? Otherwise, it is not known to the general public that on 8 August 1996 they exchanged letters from Mr Butros Butros Galli, UN Secretary General, and Vladislav Jovanovic, head of the diplomatic mission of Yugoslavia to the UN, and in his letter, Vladislav Jovanovic recognised the UN tribunal's authority and the opening of the UN tribunal's office in Yugoslavia. Now, that part of the secret diplomacy couldn't be disclosed, you know, to find out the contents of those letters, but something about it was in a foreign press in 1996. In 1998, however, Professor Costa Cavoski published the book "The Hague Against Justice", which revealed information on the exchange of these letters, so it would be very important to finally either this assembly or the foreign ministry to extract those letters from the safes and disclose them, so that we too would get to know this secret diplomacy and have more knowledge of the competences of our authorities proposed by this bill. So I suggest that our amendment be adopted. Look, if our amendment doesn't pass, then the story of the anti-Hash lobby doesn't stand. Therefore, if this amendment is adopted, then the jurisdiction of the court will be broader and will be tried for all the offences provided for in Article 5. If he doesn't adopt, then it's clear who's representing the anti-Hax lobby. I thought the government knew that, because he doesn't know, here's a chance to tell them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31724	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleagues, I really want to warn the Madam Chairman, I didn't think that would be necessary, to Article 117. To this end, this parliament is being self-absorbed that it is more unsustainable. What the government doesn't respect is our own fault, but we don't respect each other. In a hall where there are no more than 50 MPs, and mostly MPs of the opposition working on amendments, it is truly illusory to continue to work. I therefore ask the chairperson to act in accordance with Article 117. I don't think I need to read it. It is related to the collection of cards that are located in the parliamentary benches, which is also the obligation of the service to do, and MPs do not stick to Article 117's position to take the cards with them when they come out of the hall, and then, in accordance with Article 82, determine the quorum or to pause until the MPs get together, to work, because this is really an extremely important matter and it is not right for us to degrade ourselves like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31726	I fully agree with the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. In the second position, Article 117 states that if the MP leaves the National Assembly Hall, he is required to carry the card, if he does not carry the service. All I can do in the interest of self-respect is personally respect the Rules of Procedure and that's something I always do when I leave the National Assembly Hall. Unfortunately, that's not the case with all of us, but it will be if it's patience. I ask the service of the National Assembly to return all the cards of the MPs to the MPs' benches where there are no MPs to deliver them to the Secretary of the National Assembly, and she will return them to the MPs. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. [[Sagar.]] The motion has been issued, and I ask all MPs to act in the same way as the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and to prove their self-respect and respect for the Assembly, not by throwing it away. I give notice to MP Dusan Cvetkovic for violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and tossing the chairman from the parliamentary bench. [[Sagar.]] What I am trying to prove by presidencies is that the Rules of Procedure interprets this law as lightly as possible, and so I will continue to the end of the debate in particular. The SRS and SPS parliamentary groups have the concept of erasing all members, which implies a wide argument when it comes to the requirement to remove the law from the procedure. The DSS and the Soviets have amendments with changes to the text. The application of the Rules of Procedure in this case implies respect for the subject we are considering, but does not remove the obligation to respect other members of this Rules of Procedure. I will debate in particular, according to the Rules of Procedure, following up on the idea that the parliamentary groups had in proposing amendments. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate on the amendment to Article 2 coming forward? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the People's Republic of Verica Radeta and Đura Lazic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31727	Unlike Vladan Batic, the Serbian government minister, we Serbian radicals are not fake patriots, although we will not vote for this law. I'm sorry the minister left, it would be good to hear that, at the very least, what he said is impertinent that MPs who do not vote for this law to extradite our citizens to The Hague tribunal. As for the motion to delete Article 3 of this Act, in the very explanation itself, it is denied what Mr. Minister here said and in the light of my amendment, it clearly states that the area of responsibility of the individuals suspected of committing criminal acts is determined in the Head of the JVI of the Basic Criminal Code, as regards the authority, jurisdiction, organisation and procedure, is fully governed by our existing positive regulations, which clearly means that we are absolutely not opposed to being prosecuted by someone who is suspected of an individual offence that can be committed under war crimes. Article 3 of this law, as well as the title of the law itself, denies the right universal presummation of innocence, which reads - no one can be found guilty of a criminal offence until it is established by a judicial decision. In this way, the title of this law and of Article 3 of this Law, the Government, as a proposing, violated Article 27(3). The Constitution of Serbia, Article 11(1). General Declarations on the Rights of Man of the United Nations, Article 6(2). European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Article 8(2). American Conventions on Human Rights, Article 7(1), paragraph 2) of the African Charter on Human Rights and Peoples. Gentlemen, if you are making laws contrary to all these international declarations, then let it serve you honor, as it honors your relationship with The Hague tribunal and everything that happens in The Hague tribunal. I know that you will refuse this amendment and that you will vote in favour of the law, because you are pleased to follow everything that is happening and to participate in all events related to the UN tribunal, and now you are passing the law, so you will have the pleasure of enjoying Serbia in the same way. You will have a detention unit, you will have a protected witness, you will have special judges and special prosecutors with wigs and inquisitors, similar to Carla del Ponte, because only someone who looks like Carla del Ponte, someone who is without honor and cheek, whose honor, and by law you have foreseen, is measured by thousands of euros, can do such an honorable job. Those who are currently in The Hague tribunal and those whom you will judge for any war crimes committed, gentlemen, have no price. The price you took for their heads is the price of members of the government, not those of the people who are in The Hague tribunal, or those who will be tried here. Mr. Minister said that it would be possible to judge Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj and Ceku on the basis of Article 3, and I am adding, I suppose, Mirko Norc and Anti Gotovina, but Mr. Minister did not tell the true truth, and the truth is that this law is passed by two or three thousand of our young men, members of the army, members of the police, who participated in Kosovo in the fight against the Cypriot... (President: National MPs, regardless of the extent of the argument, have no right to define for the speaker neither the number nor the persons to which the law will be applied. You can express your suspicions, but you can't say that kind of attitude behind a pay phone. ) Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister has precisely listed the names I just listed, and I am expressing my open suspicion that these two or three thousand soldiers and police officers were scheduled to be tried in Bulgaria. There some kind of camp was started to be built for these soldiers, so the Bulgarian government refused to do so, and then you here fast-tracked the prisons, arranged the prisons, made detention units, prepared the courts, prepared prosecutors to judge those who were neither guilty nor debtors, and those who truly committed war crimes, and those who were determined to commit war crimes, were released from prison. You had them in prison, you released them, you abolized them, you freed them, and you passed the law exactly as the Law on Co-operation with The Hague tribunal was passed, as the Hague statute was brought, exclusively for the Serb people, and for patriots in the ranks of the Serb people, and such, thank God, is the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31728	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31729	I refer to Article 28. The Rules of Procedure and I really blame the chairman for this state of parliament. If she is unable to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, she has no right to ask us to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to give us further disciplinary measures. If I pointed out the breach of the Rules of Procedure and asked that, in accordance with Article 117, the cards that stand in the parliamentary benches, which the service and collected, and after that, some new cards were re-entered, and immediately asked to establish the quorum, according to Article 82, I do not understand why the chairman has not yet done so, but is letting us speak and wait for whether we will gather or whether MPs will come. I really don't want to speak here in front of 30 MPs. You've cut the quorum for business from 126 to 84. If we are unable to ensure the presence of 84 MPs, let us all leave, this assembly should not exist. Do you realize that every single one of you, no matter what MP group he belongs to, thus depriving the person of the MP, the function of the MP of the people. What is this, some kind of informal gathering? How are we acting? This is a formal assembly only when the chairman imposes disciplinary penalties, using his discretionary powers that do not mean abuse, but very often are abuse. If you're all okay with it, I'm really sorry, but I have to go out for a pay phone and say what I mean here. I once again warn the chairman that first she is acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to teach the other MPs then to respect the order that they have prescribed for these superlative rules, but that is who we want, as it is, to respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31730	The stenogram can determine that you did not ask for a quorum to be determined in the previous report. Article 117 paragraph 2 and after the service removed the status cards on the monitor was 103, 101 and 95 MPs, and that is the quorum. Now you have a neat requirement for the quorum and please determine if we have a quorum to work with. I find that we have a quorum to work with and continue the debate in the details of Article 3. Once again, I remind all MPs on the obligation to insert a parliamentary card into the electronic voting unit when entering the hall, it is a business obligation, when leaving the hall to be carried with them by the Rules of Procedure, MPs who are constantly working have an obligation to participate in the establishment of quorums. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31731	I appeal to Article 82(6): "If the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of a quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system, the president shall put into account a computer copy of the national MPs present. "Of course, I demand that I be delivered a computer copy of the MPs present, and I ask for it because the MPs use other people's cards in my eyes, and when you deliver them to me, then I will ask you to give me the measure that follows the Rules of Procedure. How are we gonna prove that? Probably the same way you used videos in the proceedings against the head of the Serbian Radical Party MP Tomislav Nikolic, so you couldn't see anything, and then a witness hearing. I am prepared to testify who has abused someone else's card and to see if you will be consistent and express the proper disciplinary measure provided for in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31732	I ask the National Assembly's service to send a list of the last quorum between 12.55 and 13:00 hours to Gordani Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic, as the applicant for the amendment to Article 3 in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31733	On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law requesting that this Article 3 be deleted, because we consider this member to be illogical, although it is written and how Minister Batic explained it can make some sense and can drink water, as our people say. In order to give a concrete explanation why I am asking to delete this article, I will read it in full: "The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia set out in this law are responsible for the conduct of proceedings against the perpetrator of the crimes referred to in Article 2 of this Regulation, which were carried out in the territory of the former SFRY". Determining such jurisdiction, so this is the text of the member, is why we ask that this member be deleted, because it is practically impossible to implement this member. First of all, it is impossible for several reasons, and first of all, because it has the least right to tell us that this member will be executed, the one who proposed the law on the amnesty of Cypriot terrorists, murderers, who slaughtered, massacred Serbian and other non-Albanian animals in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is absurd to expect that this man will fulfill this promise and trust him. Secondly, how can we expect this member to be implemented for the perpetrators of the crimes that are predicted by the head of the JVI of the basic criminal law at the premises of the SFRY, if we know how Slovenia, Croatia and the other republics deal with what was happening. Did anyone in Slovenia think that they were accusing someone in Slovenia of the many murders of our soldiers who only played their part, the honorary role of defending their country and serving a military deadline? Do you expect someone from Slovenia to deliver one of our courts to answer for these crimes against our soldiers? Do you expect someone from Croatia to deliver one of their citizens for many crimes committed against the Serbian people in Krajina and in other parts of Croatia? Do you expect a decision to retake already freed terrorists from our prisons to be tried again in our country? The people against whom the verdicts were brought, proven guilty, their crimes, and they were released. Here is the latest case of Chief Musliu, who committed crimes in the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities, whose responsibility has been proven. It cannot ensure his arrival, his appearance in front of our judicial authorities. It's even going so far in these absurdities that those who participated in the ranks of so-called. Liberation armies of Presevo and Bujanovac amnesty and are now included in the so-called multiethnic police. There are even some who have been wounded in that fight with our officers and soldiers, with members of the security forces, and now wear the uniform of our police and shoulder to shoulder with a member of the Serb national community or others. So how can we expect this member to be applied, in addition to all these inconsistencies and the real situation and relations of other former SFRY republics, to events that have taken place over the past years of the war, which have been driven by great forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31734	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zoran Angelkovic, deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31735	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this Article 3 is currently in favour of what I said and for the first time, that we have, in fact, regulated criminal law on crime which seems to be against humanity, and here, in the end of the case, in Article 3 exactly states that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are determined by this law to conduct proceedings against the perpetrator of the crimes referred to in Article 2 of this Law, and it is clearly said that Article 2 of this Law is related to the Head of the Justice of the Basic Criminal Code (criminal acts against humanity and international law). Therefore, this article is also clearly said that the state of Serbia, the former Yugoslavia, however you will, has arranged the matter of responsibility for committing crimes against humanity and international law. So that was absolutely familiar. Besides, I know for a fact, I'm sure every soldier had that member of the law on him as an obligation to uphold international norms and international laws, so as not to commit crimes against humanity. So that part of the job doesn't have any dilemma. Here we suggest erasing because this matter is simply arranged. It was only necessary to act on it, and this law also follows, only the law to introduce a public prosecutor, to introduce a special department in Central Prison; there are already hundreds of special departments there, though with the warden of the prison a special department, when he goes to the hearing, I heard it yesterday, but there is no reason for this member. Imagine now that if we have a law on sugar, for example, we now pass a law where we introduce a public prosecutor to fight against breaking the law on sugar production and sales, and then we say - and that prosecutor is obliged to apply the sugar law. It is completely analogous, pointless to write a new law confirming previous members of the law, under which a court, not a court, but an existing court, will judge. You know, from this point on, you can clearly see the next thing, and the minister said it today, I don't understand, in the last days of such campaign and logic and stories, it's all because of some anti-Hax lobbyists, it's all wrong for some Hague brotherhood, I haven't heard about the Hague brotherhood, and for the anti-Hax lobby, so we all read it in the paper, 70% of Serbian citizens belong to the anti-Hash lobby; 70% of Serbian citizens are against The Hague, which means that 70% of Serbian citizens are anti-Hax lobby, it's not controversial. I don't understand who you're actually attacking when you say that, those 70% of Serbian citizens who are against the UN tribunal. But we've been talking all this time -- come on, why didn't he start the process against the Sljivancans? Besides, even this member of the law says that when the state wants to make an Eccess, it makes it. Why wasn't Sljivancan arrested at half four but 12 o'clock at night? To make an excess, to arrest those who defended Sljivancan and to fight the police with those young men there and to beat up all the kids in cafes the day before yesterday, because they don't know how else to take revenge for what happened at the Sljivancan conflict. (President: I ask the People's MPs not to earn, correcting language errors, for it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. That's the point. So for these reasons, we think, very simply, that we should not repeat ourselves in the new law that will be tried, repeat the previous members, repeat the members of the law that regulate this matter, but rather need to affirm the minister of justice, I am sorry that he is not here, and he reminds us whenever we say anything. I guess it's more cultural when you go out than when you throw and comment, because that means you're following. You're following my discussion, which is why you're throwing it at me now, but when you get out, you don't follow at all. (President: National MP, if you can return to the attached amendments. Of course, according to the amendments. Don't worry about it. So there's no need to write it here, but to... Milka Marinkovic throws it out of place. Milka, I'm not shaking, I'm talking vigorously, and if you're shaking, you can discuss it at home with your husband. Don't throw it at me in the future. As soon as you throw it to me, I have to answer right away... (President: National MP, you were warned that regardless of the dynamics of the debate, which is due to very good relations among the MPs, you are currently returning to the content of the amendments you have submitted). Here it is necessary, in fact, that the minister, or at least in the light of this law, is clearly said that the state has so far had a clear and orderly matter to fight crimes against humanity and international law, because in fact in this law it writes it. If it says, then it should not be attacked that we did not have conditions for it, but rather, it should be made clear that it is a regulated matter and that we hope that very soon those who bombed the Lužana Bridge will also be subjected to and started a trial against them before this court that is planned here.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31736	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group. National MP Milka Marinkovic is looking for a replica. You have no basis for the replica, it was the direct address of the two MPs who violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31737	Article 3 The proposal for this law tells us that some new state bodies of the Republic of Serbia will be formed, which will be tried and prosecuted against the perpetrators of the criminal acts of the criminal acts of the GNI of the Criminal Code, and these are crimes against humanitarian law. The formation of these new state bodies will cost us, as explained, 273 million dinars for the last quarter of this year, and we already have the Ministry of the Interior, we have a public prosecutor's office, we have courts that can do it. The question is why do we need a new prosecutor now, why do we need a new council to judge this case, and according to Criminal Law, and it's still going to be those judges from that district court, why do we need a special detention unit, if we have a county prison, which conditions must be in that detention unit for suspects, as you say, for war crimes? If you're going to look up to The Hague or if the promoter looks up to The Hague, maybe he'll organize a gym there, maybe there'll be a playground for small sports, it'll cost you; maybe there'll have to be a TV in the detention unit, a laptop, I don't know what's gonna have to exist, if it's special, something has to be special, not single, but it's different from other detention units, it requires special costs, and we don't know why it's necessary when we already have county prison. And if this money is secured in the budget, which I doubt, that money should have been aimed at improving the conditions of all detainees, not just those who will be accused and suspected of war crimes. So it's new -- it's a detention unit, it's new -- it's a public prosecutor for war crimes, and we even have to have a special department to do administrative and technical affairs, and that's what -- seduce the case, get divorced, take it to the competent court and stuff. What will make staff in the Belgrade District Court special to all other employees doing these administrative - technical tasks? There is a vision of the formation of some new state authorities, allegedly of great importance, and they are only foreseen for the reason that it is necessary for a large number of people to perform a public prosecutorial function to extract one if you are able and one who will be willing to do this dirty work, or a few judges who will be prepared to judge in such a quasi-judgment. You are convinced that these judges, who have sworn to work under the Constitution and the law, will not act in accordance with this law and you have to create the possibility, regardless of what we have the Law on Judges and what we have the Law on Public Prosecutors and what this does not fit these two laws, so that you can make some draft law that will represent the form that there is such a thing. We're against it, of course. Another amendment requiring the removal of Article 3 and further justification for the withdrawal of this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31738	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Mamula and Dragan Jocic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has a People's MP, George Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31739	Article 3 reads: "The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are designated by this law responsible for the conduct of proceedings against the perpetrators of the crime referred to in Article 2 of this Act, which were carried out on the territory of the former SFRY". Our amendment to Article 3 suggests adding the words "no matter the nationality of the perpetrator or the victim" after the words "Yugoslavia". This is, above all, because the bill only states about the territorial jurisdiction of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, which leaves the possibility for different interpretations of their real and personal competences. So we believe that the jurisdiction of the court must be extended to all persons who have committed war crimes, regardless of their nationality. However, the adoption of this law requires, of course, our first amendment to Article 2 because Article 3 says: "The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia set out in this law are responsible for the conduct of proceedings against the perpetrators of the crimes referred to in Article 2." It's a key problem. If our previous amendment is not adopted, where we propose that criminal offences be covered by the type and name of Article 5. The Statute of the International Criminal Tribunal, then we cannot accept even Article 3. So here's the point, as if a deal was made between authorities and international factors -- you're judging for something, and for the main things we're going to judge in The Hague. Therefore, Mr Batic's position on who is in favour, and who is against The Hague is without any arguments. Whoever does not accept our amendment covering Article 5. Statute, go directly into the anti-Hasian lobby. This is a matter of knowledge, not of current commitment. So it's very clear that we respect each other on this. I didn't accidentally say what Butros Galli and Vladislav Jovanovic signed. This bill, proposed, goes below the level of the 1996 proposal. The agreement, or exchange of letters, did not take place in the form of a contract, because it would then have to be ratified in the congregation. We do not know exactly what the deal is and what is not revealed. Therefore, whoever does not accept this attitude is a very clear position. On the other hand, four military personnel, two officers and two soldiers have recently been convicted for crimes in Kosovo. There they killed two faces and got a total of 35 years. I don't know if the promoter has considered this formulation opening up the possibility of police responsibility. That is why I draw your attention to respecting these amendments, not, as the Serbian Government, you are easily refusing. We made the arguments. So, the authority of our amendments was derived from the arguments. The government's argument in one sentence that it wasn't founded, I don't think it can just be accepted, because no legal argument has been issued. We cannot dispute what the government has stated by refusing our amendment, because it does not state the facts. What is not based on facts cannot be challenged by facts. So this amendment, as before, I recommend your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31740	Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president, the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31741	Dear colleagues, today I have decided to go all the way to the quorum, in order to honor the MPs and the chairman to adhere to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I therefore call on Article 116(2), which stands - for a MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, the president of the National Assembly proposes a move away from the session. Of course, it's her discretionary right, but let's see what her principle is. Here, in a computer copy, we have Igor Soldatovic present in third row, second seat next to Mr Dragisa Popovic. A card that has been abused in the eyes of the other MPs, and I have not gone further, as did Mrs Natasha Micic, who is the president of the National Assembly and whose card is next to yours. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it appear that her card must be inserted when she is not present at the session. That's why there's a vice president of the Assembly, who's entitled to hold a session when she's not here. She is only a people's messenger, the first among the equal, who exercise all rights as well as all other messengers. So, if we're present, we have some rights here, we have some obligations, we have the right to get the daily we're here, and if we're not there, if you're not here this afternoon, you'll get half the daily or travel expenses, and so will Mrs. Natasa Micic. Her credit card is being abused all the time when she's not here. I ask that Mr Dragisa Popovic be given a measure, and in accordance with Article 116(2). I urge you to really think about what you're going to do now, because discretionary law does not mean abuse of authority. For abuse of authority, it goes to court.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31742	I remind MP Branislav Vakic that the session is ongoing, the quorum exists, and that the benching is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. An explanation for both objections. You have already made the second complaint and you have received an explanation, at the request of the electronic system for the determination of the quorum, an electronic unit that determines the presence of the National Assembly president is not sensitive. So, in a situation where an electronic system is given to search for the quorum, your screens on the parliamentary units disappears. I remind national MP Natasa Jovanovic that we have a quorum and that the benching implies a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you. The quest for quorum - all the names of all the MPs, except for the MP Slobodan Pavlovic, who is no longer with us, who are registered previously in the same parliamentary unit, are deleted. The name of the President of the National Assembly shall not be deleted. For the accuracy of my claim, you can get information from the service that is in charge of electronic equipment, which serves the Assembly. The first part of your claim is that Mr. Igor Soldatovic was not in favour. That's your claim. On the basis of Article 84(2), I am obliged to give you instructions to have the right to request a session of the Administrative Committee to determine the fact of what you claim. I remind you in the end that we have a quorum for deciding and applying the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Because the MP is dissatisfied with the explanation, I will schedule a session of the Administrative Committee to discuss the claims made by the People's Parliament that there was an abuse of the card. Finally, under Article 28. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are my duty to say that the job of the chairman is to listen and measure the atmosphere at the very session of the National Assembly. What is obvious is, with apologies to the MPs, the intention to enter into the atmosphere of the National Assembly intolerable and to throw out the tolerances that existed during the debate on this very important law for all of us. I can only stand by my claim that the debate on this law will be led to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the atmosphere of respect for the MPs. Does anyone else appear in the discussion of the details of the amendment to Article 3? No, I don't. ) On the title of Chapter II "Organization and jurisdiction of state authorities", the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31743	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I asked to be a member of the 4th. The bill is deleted. Namely, regardless of the claims Mr Batic made here, at least while he was in the O.R., that this court that is being organised will not be intended exclusively for Serbs, all of the government's actions suggest and convince me that he will be exclusively educated for Serbs. Namely, about a year and a half ago, the justice ministry annulled the verdicts against NATOalian leaders and the NATO Alliance itself, specifically against Bill Clinton, Tony Blair, Javier Solana. For some of these, except that you have annulled the judicial verdicts for these crimes that need to be formed this court, you have even spread red carpets. What crimes did they commit in these areas during the 1999 air campaign? The hospital was bombed, which is an obvious example of violations of the rights and customs of war. There was a civilian train bombed that contained 30 or more civilians who were killed. Several civilian bridges have been bombed that had no significant importance for the functioning of the Yugoslav Army, on which civilians and even a world champion in mathematics were killed. The cities, the very center of the city of Aleksinac or Nis, are bombed by means that are not even allowed to be used against the armed forces of the conflicted party. You have annulled the verdicts of the people who gave the order to bomb these targets. You recently convicted Mr Milanovic of bombing RTS. I don't want to get into whether he knew or not, it's another story. But I ask you, what about those who ordered the bombing? What about those who pressed the trigger, that these RTS workers get hurt? The campaign itself that's been campaigned has all the features of genocide and war crimes. As its last asset, the bombing of the power plant was also used, and we all know the importance of electricity, that with no electricity, there is a phenomenon such as disease, infection, hunger. The goal was to push Serbia and the Serbian people into the 15th century. Another similar example that the court would be exclusively for Serbs is the release of about 2,000 Albanian terrorists, who were rightly sentenced by Serb courts for terrorism and war crimes. One of the freed even in the trial and publicly when giving his first statement, admitted to raping a nine-year-old girl and then killing her, only because she's Serbian. His own testimony has all the features and genocide and war crimes and violations of the rights and customs of war. You've freed people like that. First, Vojislav Kostunica, when he freed Fjore Brovina, signed a man of amnesty. Even some MPs, while Serbian Radical Party MPs came out here, asked where we got so many rights to criticise them. Where did you gentlemen get the right to release all these criminals, where did you get that moral right? Did the citizens give you that right when they voted for you? Did your family give you the right to do that? Do you have any regard for those people who were killed by those criminals? Now Vladan Batic appears and writes about some war crimes courts. He says these 2,000 terrorists will be returned to Serbia for a new procedure, to conduct proceedings against them. As far as I'm aware, in this year and a half, neither has this government asked any of these Shipatarian terrorists to appear before domestic courts, nor have they delivered any of them to us. The question arises who will be your public prosecutor for this specialised court? Is that gonna be Bill Clinton, Tony Blair, Javier Solana, and maybe you'll bring Carla del Ponte? Steiner's free. It'll be the other day. He might be the best prosecutor for you. In any case, all of us who do politics, including you, will be judged by the people in the elections. History itself will behave when you fall from power to your merits. Don't let your generations be ashamed of yourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31744	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31745	Article 4 establishes the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office for Criminal Crimes under Article 2 of this Law, and these are criminal offences under the Basic Criminal Code of Chapter XVI. The war crimes prosecutor's office, which is due to carry out affairs for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has its head office in Belgrade and the prosecution's organisation is prescribed by this member, and in the final view it says that the war crimes prosecutor's work is properly followed by the provisions of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. If you wanted to, to preserve the legal system, to organise and establish such a single prosecution, you could have done so in the context of amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office or in the context of amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. So the legal system doesn't interest you in that sense to preserve it. A special law is passed with a clear political background, which we have already talked about enough, but now the question is -- why is the name of this: the war crimes prosecutor's office. So far, we've only had a public prosecutor, so we've invented this special prosecutor for organized crime, we've said, there are crimes that are considered organized crime, and we've done it through amendments and additions to the law, but nowhere in our basic criminal law that this public prosecutor's office is going to do, act in these cases, but clearly in the basic criminal law it says that these are crimes against humanity and international law. So, even on the condition that this survives, the proposer should consider the name of the prosecution and then be the prosecution of crimes against humanity and international law within the framework of the public prosecutor's office that already exists, and we would overcome the changes and additions of both law and law. The crimes are here, they have a clear name, I don't need to remind you of that. Because what if no one is convicted of a crime of war, which as such does not exist? What if no one is convicted of a war crime and that prosecution ceases to exist after a few years, and I hope it stops much sooner, right after the election. Because something like this just can't be allowed to exist in our legal system. You're bringing in a new institution, a new state body to complete absurdity. And what's really hypocritical is that the same minister is proposing to us, and the same MP majority supports the Amnesty Act, based on which so many Shiparas have been released, and now the War Crimes Act. Well, please, you're in conflict with yourself. First you let the war criminals go, and now you want some new prosecution, some new court that's going to judge war criminals. And how are you going to catch them? How are you going to catch that 1,900 you released now? It would be good if the minister stayed in the O.R. But the minister won't return to the final word, because he can't look us in the eye, because he's working on a mission, by order of foreign governments for the interests of other states, not for the interests of this country and of this people, and that's why we're talking to each other, we're trying to appeal to your consciousness, and as far as the government is concerned, she's obviously ready for co-operation at all costs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31746	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word comes from MP Zoran Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. (Lowers from the O.R.: Take care of the crashes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31747	About what I'm going to take care of, she helped me and told me about my mother, where I was born, where I was born, the environment where I was born, and that environment, and I'm proud of my mother, with all the advantages and disadvantages. And what you did and what you take care of -- that's what you discuss with your own. When it comes to Article 4, he is, in fact, what we have been talking about since the start of the debate on this law, and I am constantly in the dilemma when it comes to the position of the minister of justice which might make it clear that he is here, but unfortunately he is not, when he's talking about those who are against the law being an anti-Hax lobby, and those who are for the law turn out to be the Hague lobby. I don't think there's a Hague lobby in this country, unless the minister thinks he's headed that lobby and that those who vote for this bill are actually the Hague lobby, so they also support Carla del Ponte. I don't believe it, but it turns out that way. If you have anti-Hash, then you have the Hague lobby. I don't think that's good, it's not good for you who take it as a qualification, that you're a Hague lobby, because of you, because of your family, because of the future, and I think you should think very seriously about it. When you qualify someone to be an anti-Hax lobby, and he can be proud of it, he doesn't mind if you qualify him like that, then you have to say who the Hague lobby is and then come to that position that you're a Hague lobby and that you support everything that's going on in The Hague and around The Hague. Now, why am I saying this about Article 4. The point here is that this law is, in fact, the law on the establishment of a prosecution for the prosecution of persons who have committed acts under Article 2, as it is said, acts against humanity and international law. So disproportionate. Even with the title disproportionate. The title discusses war crimes, and Article 2 discusses crimes against humanity and international law. Therefore, the prosecutor should also prosecute the acts of Article 2, namely, acts committed against humanity and international law, not acts of war crimes. Then why does he need a special prosecutor? When I say special, why especially the prosecution, why is a special prosecutor and the special deputies he appoints here, which is, of course, in Article 5, later elaborated on what is appointed, if the current prosecutor has an obligation to, by respecting the Law on Criminal Procedure, and therefore also by Head of JVI, initiates criminal proceedings, initiates proceedings against people who have committed crimes against humanity and international law. Why is that? What's the point? We didn't know that from the Justice Minister. We didn't even know when it came to the formation of a previous prosecutor's office, the one about organised crime, and we're not now, except that there's a desire for the prosecution to break down, to make it easier to influence the prosecution to launch appropriate crimes. If that's how it's going to show up soon, the prosecutors will start very quickly, as will these guards, saying that pressure is being put on the prosecution's meetings in Belgrade that certain people are being prosecuted, that this act has to be qualified, that it doesn't matter how it ends, but you have to file a criminal report, so when the prosecutor says - it's impossible, we'll laugh, they say - it doesn't matter, it has to start. Isn't that why? Somebody explain it to me. I would like the minister of justice to explain why a special prosecutor must now, when both the prosecutor and all the deputy prosecutors, both the republican and the city, have an obligation to, by respecting the law, initiate this procedure, except that the judicial system is completely decomposed, so that it can be influenced and elected against whom it pleases, and against whom no suit will be filed. I've also heard here an argument that the prosecutor from that 4th member appointed here has no right to press charges against NATO. I didn't see it here, that he didn't have the right to do it. It doesn't say anything here. I hope a lawsuit will be filed not against NATO as NATO, but rather a lawsuit will be filed against the pilot who killed Milica Rajic, the pilot who bombed the bridge in Varvarin and killed the girls there, those people who shot civilian objects on our territory, means against the name and last name or against the NN person. Let's see that too. Let's see if that's it. I'd like to hear here from the Minister of Justice whether it applies to these people and whether criminal charges will be filed, i.e. Is there going to be a procedure for that? If that's the responsibility of this prosecutor and it's being formed, then let's get this straight, and let's talk about it, and not just us talking about, in fact, the law on war crimes, and we're not talking about the law on war crimes, we're talking about the Code of Criminal Procedure, and we're just talking about the fact that this part of the trial and the Code of Criminal Procedure will be conducted by a special prosecutor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31748	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Branislav Blažić and Joca Arsic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 5, I have submitted an amendment that reads to be deleted. Article 5 speaks of the prosecutor, the special prosecutor for war crimes, elected by the National Assembly. Normally, I ask that this member be deleted, just like all the other members. It is understood that this country has so far had its positive legislation when it comes to war crimes or crimes against humanitarian law, against humanity. So, who needs us to re-elected some special prosecutors, special prosecutors, that this starving people in this country are now paying for new, duplicate organisations and organs? What are the reasons why a law like this is passed today, when you all know that by July 1st, this country should sign a bilateral agreement with America on the non-delivery of US citizens to the International Criminal Court? If we don't sign a bilateral agreement by July 1st, the Americans will abolish the aid, exert pressure, impose sanctions. All this is about the honesty of the international factor, the honesty of America that does not recognise the UN tribunal. Is this some new Hague tribunal in Serbia, is this some new trial for Serbs, now on their territory, for some fictitious war crimes? Is the idea and desire of this government, this service and humility, actually related to new elections? Is there a demand for the help and support of an international factor through this law, that many of the evils that have been inflicted in three years hide and regain support for citizens, through campaigning and manipulation, for some new government? Are we going to talk about war crimes committed by the NATO Pact? Every shot fired with an impoverished uranium is a war crime. Every shot fired and bomb that carried radioactive matter is a war crime. Will there be a trial for such war crimes? There's talk here of being tried by strangers, of being arrested by Thaci and Haradinaj. Why don't you arrest them now, why don't you put socks on this police officer's head and send them under arrest, you know where they are, or you'll arrest Sljivancan and other Serbian heroes? Who actually trusts you more? The only problem is that you, like these laws, are beginning to believe these lies and deceptions that you want to serve your own people. So here is a non-principle coalition of those who bombed this country and those who were bombed. Unfortunately, those who were bombed for their own government will sell both their own people and their own father.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31750	Anyone else want a word? The word has the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31751	Ladies and gentlemen, this member, whose erasure we're looking for, is scheduled for this prosecutor to be elected here by us in the National Assembly, this one or another assembly. The next one certainly won't, if this one doesn't get to pick him. That's what I'm convinced of. So we will have a difficult task -- MPs will have to decide on a prosecutor who will have to have certain qualities, so someone who is already a public prosecutor or a deputy public prosecutor, although this is contrary to the Law on Prosecutors, because a previous member in the last position is said to be subject to the Law on Public Prosecutors. If you remember, in that law, for someone to be a public prosecutor, they need to have proper professional training, completed law school, passed a judicial exam, and I think it was two or three years of work experience, I can't remember exactly. The law now lays down some additional conditions, that it must have a high moral reputation, impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law, which I suppose many meet, although it is hard to prove and can always be challenged, and that advantage, (this is like a competition, and it is a law and a legal norm) has persons who possess knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law. We in Serbia haven't had many cases of violations of humanitarian law and human rights, and we can't say for some prosecutor that he's just gained a divine experience in this matter, but if you apply the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, then many lawyers can run for this post as war crimes prosecutor, and the greatest experience, which probably no one will be able to dispute, has Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandic, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco. There will be only a problem for this congregation to declare which of them is the three most suitable for this dirty work. Of course, it could be someone else who finished Soroshe's schools and seminars, and who is not so widely known to the public, but if the biography is written in such a way that it is sound, I hope that it will not be faked as it has been in some of the human resources that have come to this assembly. Now, you'll all be tasked with pleading as one of those candidates, just doesn't say who's proposing to us this candidate, but it says who's choosing him. Who's going to suggest it, I really don't think anyone knows yet. Batic is not in the O.R. to tell us or maybe he thinks it doesn't matter, because they are used to working outside the system institutions. The deal is on DOS politburo, and then -- you do this, you do it, you do it, you don't have any authority, even though you're not the holder of state functions, under the authority of the MUP, BIA, the prosecution, the judiciary, you intercede with the state authorities, you seek and you don't answer to anyone, and then you formally create a farce here, a camera is introduced, a session of two committees is recorded, all MPs come to the conclusion that no one is guilty, peace, peace, Ceda Jovanovic was not involved in organised crime, and you think it will stop. No, gentlemen, everything has to go back to the system institutions. There are courts in this country that have to judge those who, without authority, interfered with the work of the state authorities and did what they shouldn't have done. Someone like the head of the parliamentary club couldn't come forward on behalf of the state authorities, in any case. That's how we're going to do it here, we're going to choose those who are willing to do all the dirty work, and how it's going to end, we're going to see one day. I'm just ordering you all to be very careful, to move within the Constitution and the law, because no one is untouchable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31752	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is made by MP Joca Arsic. You should've gotten the word before Gordana Pop-Lazic's MP. I'm sorry, the wrong communication on my part. It's the turn. You have the championship under Article 137. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31753	A lot of arguments have already been made as far as Article 5 of the proposed law is concerned. On behalf of the SPS, I have also submitted an amendment that I have provided for the removal of this member. The argumentation has already been made in some part and I would not like to repeat it, by not seeing any reason to introduce a special prosecution, to be elected in this way; we have already said in Article 4 the reasons why we are against this article. Also, our amendment to Article 15 is a trace of our amendment to Article 4 because we can't ask in Article 4 for the constitution of the prosecution, and to accept later the way this prosecution is to be established. Our argument is that it contains this article in some way a farce which this law seeks to establish. So, according to the proposed provision of the war crimes prosecutor, the National Assembly elects, with that person as well as his deputies meeting certain basic conditions for selecting the district attorney and having a high moral reputation, impartiality and significant experience in the area of criminal law. It is also added that they have knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law and human rights. My colleague Pop-Lazic has already listed some individuals who are alleged experts in international and humanitarian law, and she has forgotten only the expert Vojin Dimitrijevic, and I thought they would be in the assembly or assistance of this prosecutor's office, but the latest position of the proposed member shows that, after the prosecutor's office in the war crimes prosecutor's office, the deputy is returning to office in the public prosecutor's office. This last position speaks of the temporary nature of this prosecution, the establishment of a single body that is for a certain period of time, and which should carry out the tasks as provided for by this law. This is where another institute is being introduced, that we are now changing the decision we had before, and the law that we had before to elect a prosecutor, and the government appoints deputies. This law provides for the Assembly to choose or appoint a prosecutor, and often these two things interfere here, and that the deputies are appointed by him. It is still going -- their salaries, their responsibilities, and the rest are determined by the minister of justice, i.e. they are determined under special conditions, and then these people are brought, who are equal in the performance of their functions, the deputies and the prosecutor themselves are completely equal. The D.A. is sort of running a certain policy, and these are the people who do the operational work. They're so double-dependent. They're dependent on that boss who's supposed to propose them here or pick them himself, and on the other hand, you can't see who's proposing. In the principle debate, we highlighted the problem. This problem is significant here, and that is one of the reasons why we are asking for this member to be deleted, in addition to the other reasons set out in the principle debate, and in the argument we had on the previous members. So, a legitimate question arises as to why criteria are prescribed, if it is known that persons who already carry certain office in the prosecution will be elected to this post, if they are said to return to their jobs in the prosecution's ranks, that they are guaranteed to do so after the completion and termination of their duties means that they will be taken from these ranks of the prosecution. Did we then establish the criteria that are needed here on their quality, on the knowledge of rights, on the knowledge of international law, on having knowledge and experience in the field of international humanitarian law? Wasn't that what these prosecutors had, from which lines to choose, if they were guaranteed to return to those places and those functions? That's all the arguments we've put forward, in addition to this principle reason that prosecutors already exist and there are district courts that can run a fully competent business, they can deal with this matter and judge any war crimes perpetrators.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31754	The word comes from MP Zoran Angelkovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31755	I talked about this article in fact about Article 4 of the Prosecutor's Office and the appointment of prosecutors, but here is the same argument about what Joca was saying now, about the defence of the amendment itself and about the previous members when it comes to the formation of the prosecutor himself. So, we don't think there's a need to specifically form a prosecutor's office, but that this should be a department within the current Republic Prosecutor's Office that would deal with this business, especially because of the analogy of further members, where the service involved is formed, larger, etc. So we don't think that's necessary. Of course, I suppose the parliamentary majority will adopt such a member, and then at least when elected by the prosecutor's office, that the deputy prosecutor is elected by the Assembly. You're treating it with that analogy of previous laws on the election of prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, because the objectively deputy prosecutor is the operative who runs the main business on all these matters, and it's important that the Assembly chooses him in that case, not just the prosecutor. Secondly, it is inadmissible to give here in any way the powers of the minister of justice, even when it comes to the systematization of jobs, because it is a special department. The assembly elects the prosecutor, the Assembly forms the law, and therefore it is necessary for it to be completely clean, with all the clear powers that the Assembly will adopt, not to give into the power of the justice minister and anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31756	This concludes the work in the afternoon and the afternoon work starts at 15.00 hours by discussing the amendment to Article 5, which was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. [[After break - 16.05.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. By inserting the parliamentary cards into the electronic voting unit, please determine if we have the quorum needed to work. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We continue the work and debate on the amendment to Article 5, which was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic. Does one of the amendment applicants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31758	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the role of the prosecution in preserving and protecting the constitutional and legal system of every state, including these of our creations, is great. Unfortunately, however, there is an impression that there is not enough attention when it comes to the deputy public prosecutor. This certainly contributes perhaps to insufficient notification not only by the legislator of certain laws, such as the Prosecution Act or this law, but probably also by a slightly different treatment and misrepresentation of the very concept of deputy. So let me also, based on some experience of my own, because I've worked for 30 years in the D.A.'s office, explain to myself the concept of a deputy prosecutor. The term deputy shouldn't be identified with the term deputy director or some boss. Despite some type of hierarchy system in the prosecution, the prosecutor is the first among the equal, and the deputy prosecutor has all the procedural rights of the prosecutor in the process. So let me, on behalf of the Serbian Unity Party, announce an amendment to Article 5 of this law, which reads - the position of the 1st law is changed, and according to our proposal, it should read: "The Prosecutor for War Crimes and Deputy Prosecutor for War Crimes elects the National Assembly". Also, paragraph 2 is deleted. The words "and Deputy Prosecutor for War Crimes" are added in attitude 3 after the word "crime" and the words "and for his deputy set" and the words "or placed" are deleted. In heading 4, the word "sets" is replaced by the word "picks", and the word "set" is replaced by the word "chosen". We believe that the deputy war crimes prosecutor should also be the person elected by the National Assembly. If the Prosecution Act already does not allow for continuity and security, and therefore the impartiality of the Deputy Prosecutor, let us at least do so by adopting this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31759	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 6 to which the amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Branislav Vakić and Rade Bajic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 6 of this law, I have tabled an amendment that reads - the Serbian Radical Party MP group thinks it is unnecessary to pass a special law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings. Of course, this does not mean that we are against being tried before domestic courts by all persons suspected of committing war crimes. You know that the Serbian Radical Party is against every extradition of citizens of Serbia, this quasi-state community, the criminal UN tribunal. That's why we advocated that court proceedings be conducted before domestic courts. By the Constitution of this country, you have arrested war heroes and sent them to The Hague at the request of the occupiers, who today cheer and dress over Serbia. Serve those who bombed our country, who are the main culprits of the civil war that was fought in the former Yugoslavia. For what I claim there is evidence, that is why I believe that Mr Vojislav Seselj will break the Hague tribunal and confirm what MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are saying about the Serbian prison. However, given that the area of responsibility of individuals suspected of committing criminal offences is defined in the JII Chapter of the Basic Criminal Code in respect of the Authority, the jurisdiction of the organisation and the procedure are fully governed by positive regulations, we consider it unnecessary to pass this law and, of course, Article 6 of that law. That is why I call on the MPs to vote in favour of the amendment to the 6th law tabled by the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31761	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Rade Bajić, applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31762	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6, by demanding that article 6 be deleted. In fact, Article 6 provides for the war crimes prosecutor to establish the organisation and systematization of the prosecutor's office, but calls for the agreement of the justice minister. First, we are absolutely against this law and it is very cynical and incorrect to say that whoever votes against this law is to The Hague tribunal. All of us who vote against this law, that we could now abolish and destroy this UN tribunal that judges only Serbian patriots and so unilaterally that the world has not seen in its practice. Therefore, we are not against this law because we recognise the UN tribunal, we absolutely do not recognise it, but because it should be tried by all those who committed war crimes, not only Serbs. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to seek the consent of the minister, because it is a practical interference of the legislative authority, i.e. executive, in judicial power. Here it is possible, the minister is not the authority of the government, but it is only the parliament and the government, therefore it is unacceptable that the prosecutor is seeking the consent of the minister to carry out an internal act, especially as we think, if someone votes to adopt it, that this prosecution was not necessary at all, as well as a special prosecutor. The D.A. can determine, from these public prosecutors or district attorneys, someone who would run these proceedings. Therefore, we believe that this member, as a whole, and the whole law, but this member should only be deleted. I think that in the voting day you will certainly define that this article is not necessary in this law at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31763	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, we move on to Article 7 to which the amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Srboljub Zivanovic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7. The draft law, which reads - all state authorities and organisations are obliged to provide, at the request of the war crimes prosecutor: 1) without delay, the use of any technical means at their disposal; 2) ensure the timely response of their member, i.e. an employee, including the elders of the body or organisations, for the purpose of giving notice and hearings in the capacity of the suspect or witness; 3) delaying any written or other evidence held by them. We are aware and we know that under this paragraph it is still inconclusive that such materials can be delivered. The SRS parliamentary group considers that the area of responsibility of individuals suspected of committing crimes is set out in the Chapter of the JVI basic criminal law in respect of the authority, jurisdiction, organisation and procedure fully governed by the positive regulations. Apparently, the aim of passing this law is to more effectively carry out proceedings against persons charged with war crimes, i.e. In view of the specificities of the criminal proceedings against war crimes, it is necessary to enable the hearing of witnesses or damaged by video-conferencing, in accordance with the Second Supplemental Protocol with the Convention on mutual legal assistance. A state that runs a sound national policy can count on its citizens' willingness to sacrifice themselves for national ideals and values. A state that does not rest on a highly developed national consciousness and underestimates national pride is only successful as much as it has money. Since you have lost credibility with your people as a government, in order to remain in power you accept everything your commanders command you to do, which is now this law which you propagate is in the spirit of the protection of the nation from The Hague tribunal, because by forming such a court you want to judge all patriots, i.e. ordinary citizens who opposed the destruction of Serbia and the Serb people. I think this article is senseless, and so is this law, and my amendment needs to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31765	The word has been given by MP Rajko Baralic, as an applicant for amendments in the same text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31766	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and I suggest that article 7 be deleted. The very name of the law states - Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in proceedings against the perpetrator of war crimes. I guess, against suspects who committed war crimes. What do you need, or why do we need the law, if in the very name of the law we say that all those who are possibly suspects are already perpetrators of a war crime? That's something to be taken care of. This is another piece of evidence that here the assumption of innocence is completely replaced, distorted, abused, and that this law, as such, has an exclusively or almost exclusively political dimension. It is necessary to accept that this member should be deleted before provisions 4 and 5. Public prosecutor's law regulates the duty to submit files and provide information to the public prosecutor's office. Will we have the prosecution and prosecutors for all the areas of crime in the country? Are we going to form special prosecutors and special courts for every opportunity? What will remain for the prosecution as the country's only legitimate law enforcement body? It seems to me that this is one of the laws that in one way or another acquires the sympathy of those who are asking for it here, leaving a broad possibility that a large number of people who participated as mobilized members of the Yugoslav and MUP armies might be found on the defendant's bench because they responded to their war unit's mobilization under the applicable laws. I remind you, during the course of NATO aggression on our country, general mobilization has been declared and that under the Law on People's Defence, every military official was required to respond to his war unit within 24 hours. Will this law be a legal basis or, unfortunately, a political basis for all of these persons to be eligible according to someone’s assessment because they have reported themselves to their war units in accordance with the applicable laws? There's no cameras, and there's no one to hear this, as there's no one else to hear it, and there's no protest today. Please, while there's time, return the camera to the Assembly Hall so people can hear what we're saying. It'll be late one day, I believe you've wrongly installed an obstacle to what you think secures the exercise of power today in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31767	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31768	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since it is an obvious factory of war crimes, it is no wonder that Article 7 provides that all state authorities and organisations have an obligation to at the request of the war crimes prosecutor, without delay, to allow the use of any technical means at their disposal. I don't know, though, what this could apply to. I'm guessing it's some material evidence that might be helpful in the investigation. Mihajlovic may have to deliver those freezers he excavated in Batajnica, if he kept them, and if not, he will have to explain why he destroyed them. I am convinced that there will be no problem in providing false damage, which some of these former SFRY republics will find, and who are ready, since their identity is fully protected, to present various lies at the expense of our citizens, members of the military who allegedly committed some war crimes. It will be very difficult to find for this material evidence and it will be very difficult to find an officer of honor or a member of the police who will come to the public prosecutor's request to testify for such a thing. For this reason, point 2) provides that the national authority, and in this case it would have to be an army, or police, responsible for bringing in its member, or employee, including, of course, the elders, in some ways, to ensure that they are present at the trial. I don't know how else this could be done in practice, but to arrest an officer, bring that court in and testify to something he doesn't even know what it's supposed to be. This point 3 clearly refers to some files, some documentation, which can also be falsified. There are no criminal provisions here in this law, which would bear the consequences of those who do not allow anything provided for under point 1), 2) and (3), which means that these are some principles that should enable and assist that court and that prosecutor to come up with material evidence and witness statements, so that they can also accuse someone of war crimes. If you remember, we also presented some evidence and some of the names of the people who committed the crimes of the murder, still unclear, he promised even a reward for such a thing, so he deafened it. Although the minister, led by a resolution, of a state authority, did not realize clearly how much he had committed, so he made such an easy statement, and he never did anything to come up with the evidence, the public prosecutor did not even pay attention to what we were putting out in public, and so the crimes remained unclear. So, if we compare this prosecutor to a public prosecutor who exists for all other crimes, who can find out about some crime in any way, the current public prosecutor has been deafened about the information he received at press conferences and written by Serbian Radical Party President Vojislav Seselj. The public prosecutor will have to do something quite the opposite, he will have to invent and fabricate evidence himself, so that some member of the Yugoslav Army, police or some volunteer, who, within the regular composition of the Yugoslav Army or police, has participated in the defence of the country, has declared himself a war criminal. And with this amendment to Article 7, however, the minister is not here to give us an answer, we are trying to convince the government to withdraw this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31769	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31770	In addition to the war crimes prosecutor, the interior ministry will also have to, according to the Serbian government's proposal to form a special service for the detection of war crimes. We have the Ministry of the Interior, we have the B.I.U. I do not know exactly how many officers are employed in both of these resistors, and they are not trained enough to work for these crimes, but it is necessary to form a new service, which will extort evidence, as Mihajlovic can say nicely. The interior minister will appoint and resolve the service officer, according to the war crimes prosecutor. Look what an absurd thing that is. The interior ministry, which is to work for the discovery of crimes, will find a human resources solution by obtaining the opinion of the prosecutor who needs evidence, when there is a reasonable doubt, to press charges against someone. The absolute conflict of interest, the conflict of jurisdiction and the banishment of grandmothers and frogs in this bill, especially in this article, is being expressed, and further destruction of our legal system, so that, indeed, if you had the idea to pass a law like this, you should have taken care not to interfere with the jurisdiction of the prosecution and the Ministry of the Interior, because it is simply inconceivable. The War Crimes Investigation Service, which will be called SORZ, I don't know how else, will be serving with some, I suppose, new markings, new uniforms. Now we've got these blue ones, we've got red ones, and now some gray or green ones are going to come up with, and on the streets next to one of the police, we're going to have the other one and the third one, which is going to be a service to detect war crimes, with who knows what kind of authority there is, instead of one service within the Ministry of the Interior, or the police doing everything that belongs to it under the Internal Affairs Act. It's simply incomprehensible, but besides a series of insanity, here's another one painted in this article 8, one in a row, so I'm really interested in what it's going to be in practice, and how one member of this service is going to be in charge of bringing in a member of this same service at the request of a public prosecutor (in accordance with this previous member) who's going to testify against one of his war mates. The interior ministry and Mr. Mihajlovic often complain about the very difficult conditions of work, the lack of financial resources, small salaries, a small number of apartments and a large number of unresolved housing problems of our police, so it was much smarter than the Serbian government to provide funds for these purposes, instead of providing huge funds for the work of this service, and only when we see a human resources solution that will be at the head of this service will we know what needs and how to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31771	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic. I ask the People's Messengers to silence each other for a minimum number of decibels and to enable the People's Messenger to be heard and heard with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31772	I have submitted an amendment proposing that Article 8 be deleted. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the case of war crimes offenders. In this sense, Article 8 regulates the organisation of a service for the detection of war crimes, and it is said in this sense - the Ministry of Interior to detect crimes against humanity and international law is being trained to detect war crimes. The most controversial thing, he says -- the service is acting on the demands of the war crimes prosecutor, in accordance with the law. The interior minister shall appoint and relieve the chief of staff, according to the war crimes prosecutor. I'll give you a brief explanation as to why I think this member should be deleted. Namely, the Internal Affairs Act and the relevant Act on the Systematization of Jobs and Tasks provide for the procedure and number of perpetrators to carry out investigative actions in the context of which war crimes are detected, so I do not consider it necessary to establish a specific investigation body for the detection of war crimes. Namely, Article 6. The Internal Affairs Act regulates the issue of organisation, responsibilities and authority of the MUP, and it is said in this sense that organisation units are educated to deal with certain matters of the MUP and their work, organisation and areas for which they are educated by the interior minister. Article 10 obliges the MUP to assist the state authorities entrusted by law with certain powers at their request. Article 20 states that an authorised person is required to participate in the prevention and detection of criminal offences and the capture of their perpetrators, including crimes against humanity and international law. The question arises as to why another organ now called the service is being educated in addition to the existing services owned by the MUP. It is incompatible with the Constitution that two parallel bodies are educated for the same area, regardless of their formally different names. For all the above, I suggest that Article 8 be deleted. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the case of war crimes offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31773	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Please, the word is Dragan Todorovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, i.e. the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31774	In fact, the essence of our amendment is that it really needs to avoid the formation of double organs, and that is our principle view on the whole of the law, but in Article 8, which provides for the creation of a special service for the detection of war crimes, it is really the most visible thing. We all know that in every country, the most money is spent on security authorities. So, from the budget of the biggest interventions, they go to security authorities, it's very difficult to spend these funds on a lot of objections, and infrequently these funds, especially since 2000, have been spent in vain, and here we might be able to make a principle comment that the formation of a special service for the detection of war crimes will be further emptied by already empty Serbian cash register, and that is one formal, more precisely, economic reason why special services should not be formed that require special funding, especially equipment, etc. The main reason is that the Constitution does not really provide for double bodies, i.e. the formation of double organs for the same jobs, because as predicted, the war crimes detection service will do the same job as the M.O.P. does. And it is really illogical for this member of the service to act on the demands of the war crimes prosecutor and in accordance with the law. The Internal Affairs Act, a law that should ensure that a reasonable suspicion is raised of a higher degree of certainty, a degree that will enable the prosecution to be brought up, a degree that will enable the public prosecutor, not a special prosecutor of any kind, whether for organised crime or for the detection and prosecution of war crimes, to initiate proceedings before the competent judicial authorities. Here, by analogy, especially -- the war crimes detection service, in particular -- the prosecution, the special court, and all in order to quickly build some kind of apparatus, a quasi-state one, which will serve to realise the political interests of foreign officials, unfortunately so. The proposal for our amendment to delete Article 8 was rejected by the Government with a reason that this law is adopted to establish a system or state bodies that will contribute more quickly or more quickly to the detection and sanctioning of potential war crimes perpetrators. Again, I point out our general view is that if someone cared to speed up this process, they could either make or make a few amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure, intervene with the internal affairs authorities, to better carry out their tasks related to the detection of potential war crimes perpetrators, and thus achieve the goal. The formation of a special service is really not the right solution and it is only a way to show that here we want to take some step forward, but essentially it will and how negatively it will affect the work, first of all, of the Ministry of the Interior, because this way it is recognised that the MUP is unable to carry out its tasks, which it has under the Internal Affairs Act. Also, the provision under which the minister responsible for Home Affairs appoints and resolves the elder of the service, and upon obtaining the opinion of the war crimes prosecutor, once again demonstrates the intention of the lawmaker, which is to bring everything down to the bewitched circle of the executive power which is almighty, which in agreement and in the fruit of the interior minister, the prosecutor for war crimes, his deputies, the entire government, to be able to initiate proceedings, to persecute people; and we have grounds for doubting that this will be on other grounds, not only on the basis of legal or criminal responsibility for acts, we have a concrete basis for doubting that this will be a persecution even on a political basis. And, finally, item 4. - the work of the service is arranged by an act brought by the minister responsible for Home Affairs, in the prepared opinion of the war crimes prosecutor - is another confirmation of our suspicions, which is that the work itself of the war crimes detection service, as if it could not be the ministry, is being redecorated again by the act of the Minister for Interior, according to the prosecutor's opinion. A vicious circle again and again something that brings us into an absurd situation, but, in the extreme line, and a confession that the Ministry of the Interior is not capable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31775	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31776	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 9 provides that criminal acts in the cases referred to in Article 2 are criminal acts under the Basic Criminal Code, crimes against humanity and international law, the District Court in Belgrade, as a first-degree court. So the regular court that exists is in charge of these crimes. The criminal proceedings are in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. Then what's different? Why is it not judged by the existing laws before the competent courts, before judges who will receive the cases as prescribed by the Courts Act. So, on several occasions, I've already noted that, which you know, not every judge, given the oath he took, is going to work on such cases, which should lead to the fabrication of war crimes. That's why you'll have trouble finding a judge who will be willing to do so in this Belgrade District Court. So, what happens if you don't find one? It's hypothetically absolutely possible. Then will you first find a man, then choose him as judge of the district court, and then be elected from the order of the judges of this court to the greater ones who will be tried for war crimes? Here, we'll see, it won't take much time, I guess, after this law's entry into force, although the transitional provisions don't say what time it is for all of this to be established, who will be the judges of this council and who will be that public prosecutor. When we decide about them here in parliament, we will have the opportunity to find out a lot more and say a lot more. I sincerely hope this way, although the funds of public information do not follow the work of the Assembly so carefully and do not convey to their readers and listeners everything that really happens in Parliament and what MPs say about certain laws, I urge the judges to think carefully about whether they will engage in this adventure to do something that is not in accordance with the Constitution, whether they will do something that is against morality and whether they will accept themselves as directly involved in the work of such a court. If they hear me, if anyone can pass this on here, let them know what the SRS' position is. We sincerely hope that among the judges of the Belgrade District Court, no judge will agree to work under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31777	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Joca Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31778	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 9 with a proposal to delete Article 9. Let me just remind you that Article 9: "For the conduct of criminal cases under Article 2 of this law, the District Court in Belgrade is responsible, as first-degree. The decision in the second degree is subject to a directly higher court." First of all, there's an interesting way of making a difference here. We've captured a special prosecutor's office, we're forming special services at the MUP to detect and obtain evidence of possible war crimes and acts that are contrary to human rights regulations. We've done all of this specifically: the Special Prosecutor's Office, the Special Unit of the MUP, the Special Room, the Special Prison Unit. We only left the Belgrade District Court with jurisdiction to judge these cases. I don't understand what makes the difference here. Under the criminal law, which we are referring to, the entire Head of JVI, the district courts are in charge of this job. We have a lot of county courts. Which is why we chose the Belgrade District Court, and we did not, for example, authorise the District Court in Novi Sad or the District Court in Nis, or the district court in any city where there is a district court? Is the reason that the judges who judge this matter will receive higher salaries and have certain benefits when it comes to the insurance internship, or the way in which the judges of these courts are taken care of in one better way. I don't understand why this difference and the authority to do so is solely a court in Belgrade. For these reasons, if that's the only reason, then there's no need for all the district courts to do this. The other thing that's very important in this thing, it's the second degree. It says here that the second-degree conduct will be handled by a directly higher court. What higher court? It's not a high court, is it the Supreme Court, are these appeals courts? We're talking about we haven't had enough money, we've extended the time limit to form appeals courts, we don't have enough space, we don't have enough money, we don't have enough organisational solutions, we haven't been able to form appeals courts, and here we've got 252 or 202 million, I don't know exactly, for this special court, this alternative of the Hague Court of Justice in Yugoslavia; we haven't been able to turn these funds into what this state needs, which everyone is up to, and they say it needs to be legal, to function second-degree courts, or appeals courts. It is not Mr. Minister here to explain why these funds and that energy are not invested to form appeals courts, as second-degree courts, but to put one solution in this special law, where it is said: "second-degree court", and not said which. In our view, the reasons are absolutely unnecessary to organise this prosecution in this way and all of what this law provides, because all of this exists in already valid criminal matter and all of this has been tried and done. Some examples are listed here. They've been doing it in military courts. For all that was done as a violation, which opposes the rules of war, they did. No one presented that information, as far as, and in what way it was done as regards military courts, who were also in charge and who ceased their function by creating this quasi state or non-state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31779	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31780	It is intolerable to some MPs from the rest of the DOS, the moral superiority of Serbian radicals when they talk about the bill, which we ask to delete from the first to the last member. It's not funny, Miss Angelkovic, it's sad, for the simple reason that this law, which you haven't heard about since this morning, is something that any normal and honest citizen of Serbia, or citizen, would be ashamed of in your new speech. Members of the 9th and 10th shall regulate the jurisdiction and organisation of courts. This is where we come up with a clear structure designed in its head by Vladan Batic, as minister of justice and administration, and is ignored by the already adopted Law on the Organisation of Courts. We in our parliamentary group have prominent, prominent lawyers, and especially people who and how they know the situation in our District Court in Belgrade, in courts across Serbia, and we MPs from the SRS, as well as MPs from other opposition parties, are witnessing your way of human resources on the appointment of people to the functions of judges. Now, the question arises, firstly, that Mr. Radoslav Baćovic, who has recommended himself recently and has been elected as the President of the District Court in Belgrade, and has been recommended by being at the head of the RIK... It is the same gentleman who did not want to act under the Law on the election of the President of the Republic and to deliver a single electoral list to the parties, i.e. participants, even though he was obliged to do so. This is the same gentleman who opposed the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, only for his well-known reasons and for you in particular, Mr Zoran Krasic and Mrs Veric Radet from the further work of the Election Commission. That's the same gentleman who happens to be a judge, and first of all, he's a painter. The gentleman who visits the art exhibitions most often starts with Paris in a row, and we wouldn't mind that he's some man who's known in the art sphere, someone who's acquired a fortune or someone who's defined himself for that area, but it's the President of the District Court whom you've entrusted with now, this law, and you believe that he will impartially, along with the judges appointed by that court, judge the Serbian heroes and Serbian heroes. If you had read at least a part of what Dr Vojislav Seselj wrote in his book "Ideology of Serbian Nationalism", which is a unique work for one nation, a single state, you would have immediately stopped against the way to reach this law, because the enemies of Serbia have been glorifying the Serbian army, our officers through centuries and talking about how brave we are people. Even in 1912, referring to a memo in Constantinople, Javid Pasha said, "There is nothing we can do against Serbs, because the Serb soldier is invincible." Discipline, courage and courage of Serbian soldiers is something that has made us beautiful through the centuries. You now advance through the title of this law, through this way of hiring the District Court judges, you're saying that Serbs are villains, that they're villains and that they've committed some war crimes. You know about our attitude. From the moment the UN tribunal was established, at a time when the prosecutor of the anti-Serbian tribunal was Luiz Arbur, the president of our party asked to go to The Hague and said that the volunteers of the Serbian Radical Party were the most disciplined and that we were to say that if anyone had committed any crime at any time to be tried before domestic courts. Then what do we need with the positive legal regulations, why do we need the basic law on criminal proceedings, what will the Law on Court Order, and what will make you unhappy Baćovic at the head of the District Court, when you, through blackmailing judges, will force them to be in this special department, that is, judges who will judge Serbian heroes and those who have left their children and their wives at home, their mothers and sisters and went to defend Serbian countries? How will you force them and how will Mr. Baćovic convince his colleagues from the District Court to agree to such a thing, to something that is most honorable? It is possible that, 15 days ago, with a questionable parliamentary majority, you voted the Lustration Act, in order to be able to blackmail judges and to force people whose honor does not allow them to work and participate in this which is dishonest, but nevertheless one of their protests more, protests that are today expressed in Belgrade and all that will continue to happen in this hot summer, and especially from the beginning of autumn, will be broken into your head and that will definitely be your end.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31781	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Petar Jojic and Ljubomir Mucic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party will not support the bill's proposal for the reason that in the basic criminal law of our country it is provided in the CVI that there are crimes, from Article 146 to Article 155, which are now regulated and contain all forms of violations of international law and war law, covering war crimes and genocide. For these crimes in the Basic Criminal Code, the most severe punishment is provided for, up to 40 years in prison: the killing and wounding of the enemy, then war crimes against the civilian population, also 40 years, war crimes against the wounded and the patients -- up to 40 years, war crimes against prisoners of war, too, and not to count further. I don't think there was a need to pass a regulation if our criminal law provides that these crimes may be subject to criminal sanctions, that the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the way and procedure for the detection, trial and execution of criminal sanctions when it comes to war crimes. It's not clear why it doesn't come out in public with how many war criminals there are in this country. If one law is proposed, there must be one explanation, and that explanation that needs to be made public -- because we have a number of war criminals, so it's necessary to pass a law like this. This law causes public harassment, especially members of the Yugoslav Army, police and volunteers who took part in defending their country. In Article 11. The bill stipulates that the District Court and the president of the Belgrade District Court will lay down rules for the procedure and way of conducting the process against those persons who are to be held accountable for war crimes. I don't think a judge can make the rules of procedure. This has not happened anywhere that a court applying a certain law should prescribe its own rules of conduct. Minister Batic advocated it, and I see he still advocates a war crimes trial for the Shyptar terrorists. I don't know why he doesn't go after him because the government doesn't stand behind the minister, why the authorities don't take some action and measure that this idea, this proposal and this request by the minister are being realized. I think it's okay for him to make a stand, but that's what needs to be realized. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will they be tried for war crimes against the Cypriot terrorists who have committed numerous crimes against the Serbian people towards our country? You know, for a reminder, what's been done for 78 days on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija and on the territory of our country, what the NATO Pact did, that in 78 days, with 1,200 aircraft from 26,289 flights, it launched over 2,900 bombs and missiles and about 1,000 cruise missiles, so about 22,000 tons of the most destructive explosives were dropped on Serbia's territory, of which 152 containers with 35,450 bombs banned by international conventions. The effects of aggression were extremely catastrophic. Over 2,500 of our citizens were killed, over 10,000 were wounded, 30% were killed and 40% were wounded by children. A 121 industrial facility was destroyed, 600,000 workers were out of work, and about two million citizens without existence. More than 480 schools, universities and facilities for students have been destroyed and damaged. 77 homes of health and 30 hospitals were damaged, more than 7,000 public and housing facilities were destroyed. More than 40,000 Serbian houses were burned, and more than 200,000 Serbs were evicted from Kosovo, and more than 700,000 Serbs were expelled from the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, President, I'm done. The DOS has left the prison of 1,900 S.H.I.E.L.D. terrorists. (President: five minutes. She let go of this power and of Brovina, for which absolutely there was no place. They were available to our organs, and I think they should have been tried as well. This idea of Minister Batic, in any case, should be realized and it would be good if the Cypriot terrorists were all found in the face of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31783	Please keep an eye out for the Rules of Procedure. Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31784	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for what Honorable colleague Jojic said just to say a few details. This law provides an opportunity to judge all those mentioned by Mr Jojic. The second question is the real relationship of power, the second question is the possibility that some people are in front of our judicial authorities, whether we have the power and the power to realize it. But, as Jojic knows, there is a possibility of a trial in absentia. There are various mechanisms and international legal aid. No crime will remain unpunished. I stood up for it, I stand up for it, and I will pledge to judge Thaci, Haradinaj, Chekuu and everyone else. I repeat once again, not only because they would be responsible for their war crimes, but also because it would not turn out that the opposition to the KLA or the KLA struggle in Kosovo was an alleged struggle for some national liberation of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija, as this would have been a reflection for the future of Kosovo and Metohija. If the whole world knows it's something created by blood, crime, terror, war crimes, then both the position and the future will be different, not the way Albanian terrorists want. Besides, you don't have to honor me for changing attitudes and changing optics, and I don't think Mr. Jojic wanted to. I'll just say something to remind you. I filed a criminal complaint against Javier Solana with the UN tribunal at the time. That's what all the media have told us. I don't change those principles or those attitudes, because crime is a crime, whoever did it. Of course, the other is the problem of proof, of testimony, of carrying out evidence, of being able to process certain things or not. But, de facto, this law provides at least some amount of real opportunities for the crimes committed to our damage, and above all at the premises of Kosovo and Metohija, which is still an integral part of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, to be prosecuted before our judicial authorities. While I am behind this speaker, I would like to say, as an authorised representative of the promoters, that I accept the amendment of the MPs George Mamula and Dragan Jocic to Article 2 and the amendment of the same MPs to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31785	The word is by MP Ljubomir Mucic, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should have received a word before the minister. I'm sorry, my oversight.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31786	Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, registered cards, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm deliberately saying that for five minutes while I've been waiting, I count that there are 71-72 MPs, 85 cards. There's more and there'll be more of us. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 of this Law and I have suggested that this article be deleted, given everything that has been pointed out here by my fellow Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia and, on the other hand, I can say that for the sake of this argument delivered by the Government, I would suggest to the competent committee of the Assembly, when we, as MPs, propose and submit amendments to several members with the same explanation, the amendments return to us, bearing in mind that they are passed by the Rules of Procedure and by the law. I can say that 90% of the government report stands - the government does not accept the amendment for the reasons set out in its explanation for not accepting the amendments of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 1; so all the way to the end, everything is not accepted because of Gordana Pop-Lazic. Indeed, if I submit the amendment as an MP for the Socialist Party of Serbia, I don't mind, but I can really say - from an earlier explanation under the tabled amendments. You don't have to keep repeating Gordana Pop-Lazic. I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 relating to the jurisdiction and organisation of courts, i.e. the establishment of a special department in the District Court in Belgrade, where a special department is formed for the performance of administrative and technical affairs, witness protection, and damaged and conditions for the application of the procedural provisions of this law (hereinafter: special department). The work of the special department shall be governed by an act adopted by the President of the District Court in Belgrade, with the agreement of the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. Is that necessary and is this a new court within our judicial system? Is there such a form of judicial authority in our judicial system and the organisation of the judiciary and what is the purpose of forming this department? Why form only in Belgrade? We had a war crimes trial, I think, in Prokuplje, in the jurisdiction of a district court. Who did the administrative and other affairs in this court? Why have we passed the Law on the Organisation of Courts, if we introduce all special courts, courts and prosecutors and the Anti-Organised Crimes Department, now the Court of War Crimes, the next thing we know is the fight against and the fight against economic crime, then there will be a new form of fight against other crime... So, the judiciary will be torn apart in all areas and disasters that this Serbian people, in the previous period and also in this period, face. Who will be responsible for the failure of the Serbian state and the Serbian people? Are we also going to form a special court, a special department, that will establish and propose measures against those who have led to this in the past? It is also interesting to establish this special department and the functioning of these new services, which are to be organised within that framework, to be allocated from the special funds in the 50m dinar budget by the end of 2003. Is there a consent of the Ministry of Finance? Is there a possibility, in accordance with the Budgetary System Act? These funds, when we discussed the 2003 memorandum and the budget, were neither mentioned nor mentioned in the framework of the judiciary, nor in the framework of the current budget reserve, nor in other budgets. For these reasons, I think that at this point in time, providing additional funding for the functioning of a special department and a service like this at this point is economically unwarranted. What if the Home Office doesn't find out that there are those people who are suspected or charged? So we're going to finance something that... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... It's not justified at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31787	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it's nice to have you join us, but in the last hour of work during today's session, so at least you can hear some of our arguments against this law. We have seen a report by the government informing us that no amendments are accepted, and here you later decided to accept on behalf of the government two DSS amendments, in order to facilitate their vote for this law, because in principle they said they would vote in favour of the law if any of their amendments were accepted. So, the co-operation of the first, initial DOS continues, quite successfully, the sadness of the sad occasion. As far as the law itself is concerned, I need to expand the story a little bit, although perhaps I should focus only on Article 11, which speaks of a special department for administrative and technical affairs. In our opinion, it's the court's office. Some special professions are now being sought, obviously some special knowledge, since the testimony will also be through a video conference link, so there are no such experts in this current district court office, or for other procedural actions that will have to be conducted during the proceedings. You said you could judge all those we instructed today, I assume you heard, which Mr. Petar Jojic stated. I'd like to add the names of Gotovina and Norca. I ask you, are you, Vladan Batic, the real one today or when you explained the Amnesty Act to us, and is the DSS right today? It obviously remains consistent with what their president did when he amnested Fjore Brovina, but you have convinced us that the Amnesty Act, based on which 1,900 Shipara was amnested, is now being persuaded that they can all be subject to this law, or that they can be charged and tried in absentia. I ask you, why judge them in absentia, when we could judge them in their presence and be nice in our laws, where they belong. Now I don't see how we can get to them. It's nice that you're talking about that we shouldn't let the UCK be and it's supposed to be some national liberation movement. The American Congress and Soroš see them as a force to form a new national state. This is what Mr Soros here, in this parliament when Natasa Micic received him, told us in words -- it is unrealistic to expect Kosovo and Metohija to be part of Serbia. So we talk one way, we do the other, we resist ourselves. There is no consistency in policymaking, especially in these judicial policies. No matter how late you have the need to justify yourselves whenever you come to parliament, you personally justify, don't forget, you are, yourself, Vladan Batic, president of a political party. As president of that party, you may think one thing, but you are in the government of Serbia and you represent the government, you are responsible for all government moves and you cannot amnesty yourself from it, and you mean the opposite, as president of the party, of the Serbian government, which appears here in the form of a proposing. You have to agree these two functions, you have to do it all in one person to sublime, but you view responsibility for political action as party president, responsibility for everything else that happens as a member of the Serbian government. We've been working really hard today, unfortunately, you haven't heard us. You may have followed somewhere else what we said, that this is a failure and that we think that even from abroad, the international community does not pressure you to pass this law and that this is more the need for the Serbian government itself to further tap into the international community and the UN tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31789	Right to replication, Minister of Justice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31790	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no calculations, no stores. I always accept all amendments that have logic. Yesterday, it was about hooliganism in sports stadiums, and I accepted amendments and MPs from the SPS and SRS MPs. You probably won't vote for that law either, and that doesn't matter. The amendments of counterparts Gjorga Mamula and Dragan Jocic have logic. They sort of explain something that's stipulated by law, but where there might be some dilemma. Is all war crimes, or prosecuted for all war crimes covered by this law, and this amendment confirms that they are. Whether it applies to all persons, regardless of nationality and perpetrators of victims, I think you can see it in the law itself. Here it seems unequivocal, this amendment I accepted. So the extra head doesn't hurt. It's an explanation of already foreseen norms of the law and that's logic. I don't know how you expect us to accept the amendments, when you're from first to last... You don't have to explain the amendments, say, we're against the law, not that this is used as a cheap political party and that you suggest that each member deletes the entire law. That's totally illusory. This is no contribution to improving the text of the law, to correcting the law, which is the meaning of the amendment. The amendments are invested when you want to fix something in the current text, not when you want to remove the text. Vote against it and that's it. As far as political discussion is concerned, this government and this government are trying to save Kosovo from what you have done, participating in the previous government and the previous government, you have done. You lost your sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija, so you swore here that if a foreign boot set foot on Kosovo and Metohija, you would leave the government, so you left three days, from Wednesday to Friday, so we know under what conditions you returned to the government. You're not worth the witness. One more thing to remind you of. At the time you were in power, Kosovo and Metohija were armed. There were tons of weapons coming to Kosovo and Metohija. The KLA was created, the government of Bujar Bukoshi was created. This is where you had Ramsey College and Emil Faizulahu. You put them to be the directors of the two largest banks in Kosovo. You remembered Kosovo before the elections, and then it became a cradle, root, bottom of your eye vision and so on. Don't lecture us on Kosovo. The situation in Kosovo is the fault of the former government, and you are part of the government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31791	Three minutes. The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thought there'd be some concrete things here about this bill and the amendments. Well, let's get in line. I will remind the esteemed Minister Batic that the emergency that forced us to write amendments to every member of the law, to be deleted, was caused by the adoption of a super-sacrifice rulebook that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. I'd like to remind you when you were an MP, some of your fellow opposition colleagues, for example. Mr. Paroski, they've been talking all day from this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31793	People's MP, the fact that I allow a really broad argument within the Rules of Procedure, because the text of the amendment - is deleted, understood, but I ask that in your explanation of the amendment to Article 11 that reads - is deleted, do not bring debate on the former Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or on similar matters, and very far from the amendments that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31794	Thank you very much, but you had to refer this same warning to the minister who, in his presentation of this law, pointed out who was responsible for Kosovo, pointed out that the armed KLA was thanks to...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31795	People's MP, please return to the content of the amendment. Minister Vladan Batic, to listen carefully, had the right to reply and this is a warning to stick to the contents of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31796	The Rules of Procedure apply to the opposition and you don't? The essence of our amendment is about the concept of analyzing what is provided for by this law, which is to form a special system of state for the prosecution of potential war crimes perpetrators. It may also be our authority's fault, so the Socialists who were in power, as Mr. Minister said, that it was our fault that the Shiptari wanted to secede, which they want to be separatists, they want big Albania, etc. In all this context, it may be our fault that we were bombed, but we are not giving up on our position not to break the unity of the judicial system established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is valid, as long as no one else is brought in and will not be brought in soon. This unity of the judicial system must be secured. So, according to our pledge that we do not want to form special departments of the Belgrade District Court or a special council for war crimes, our commitment is also that no special departments should be educated to carry out administrative and technical affairs, because we believe that our laws in the field of justice are clear and precise enough to determine the jurisdiction of the district courts, prosecutors and that the district courts can act in proceedings against war crimes offenders. And by doing so, we hope that the Honorable Justice Minister, Mr Batic, will have the understanding of our argument, as he had the understanding of our argument on the amendments of 18 September 2001, so, however, with a delay of 6-7 months, he accepted our amendment to the Law on Judges. As Mr Batic had the understanding of our amendments made during the state of emergency, when we proposed amendments to repeal certain provisions contrary to international regulations, so he also accepted, with a delay of about a month and a half, all of our amendments, the amendments to the opposition, specifically the Socialist Party of Serbia -- Slobodan Milosevic, we hope that he will have an understanding of this amendment, because he is extremely well-intentioned. We want, as always, not to see things from a party perspective, but we want from one neutral, as far as possible, and from one state aspect to see how the provisions established by the Constitution, which they have created, Mr Stamenkovic, all the basic levers of society and state, are respected. So once again I say that we don't think it's good to form parallel organs -- investigative bodies, law enforcement bodies, but we think that we need to respect what the Constitution has established and what is normal in every country. It won't do us much good to try to copy The Hague tribunal. I was afraid that this bill would include some provisions contained in the UN tribunal's statutes, especially those that the statute itself foresees for itself how it will work. You know how they do it: well, we agreed, from now on we'll do it that way. It's some kind of standard that can be applied in Anglo-Saxon law. It can't be applied here. Fortunately, it wasn't written in the bill either, and like I said, it made us...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31797	National MP, you lost 45 seconds to discuss something that wasn't the content of the amendment, and in four minutes and 30 seconds after the microphone turned on and 45 seconds. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31798	I would probably consider a proposal for this amendment, but it was submitted to me by an unknown parliamentary group. I didn't know there was a party called the SPS-Freedan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31799	Replication rights, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. The basis for the replica, the direct mention of the political party. I'd like to beg you, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31800	I thank the Honorable Mr. Minister for the opportunity to explain some things that are clearly not clear to him either, although he actively participated in all this. So, I said that the applicant of this amendment is the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, headed by Slobodan Milosevic, unlike some so-called. Socialists, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's, people's. Let them go free, let them say they didn't vote for the Lustration Act. I used that SPS-Free Milosevic only to explain that we are different from those who have fallen under your influence, unfortunately, and who must for their own reasons respect some of the provisions or orders they receive from you. You said you'd accept the amendment, that you knew who the applicant of this amendment was. We are the SPS, whose President Slobodan Milosevic is, and we have submitted the amendment to Article 11, so as to say a little while we expect that you will now accept the amendment, following this argument, so that we can find a common language in order to adopt a better, more comprehensive law. Once again, we're neither people, we're not fun, we're not serious, we're not non-serious socialists, we're not funny. We are representatives of the SPS, which won almost 13% of the vote in the December 24th 2000 elections, won 37 seats at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of which 7 have already been kidnapped. Unfortunately, we lost another colleague. There are currently 29 of us, but we will continue to fight to protect the basic objectives contained in our party's documents called the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31801	We're moving on to the next amendment. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić. I ask the MPs to cut down on each other's conversation and listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31802	Don't be afraid, Mr. President, I'm not the minister to leave the pay phone. I can't be disturbed when I have such a good amendment, and it's just a member of the 12th law that's talking about a special detention unit. Which is why the Serbian Radical Party is asking for Article 12 to be deleted - precisely because we saw a demonstration of hate speech by the minister, who is the proposing one, and we fear that because of Article 12, which says that the minister responsible for the judiciary is closer to determining the organisation, work and treatment of detainees in a special detention unit, not only will hate speech, but also will practically apply the pool with leeches, cages with rats, in order to be honest recognition from prison prisoners. That is why the SRS has also submitted an amendment to delete that member, i.e. there is no special detention unit, because we believe that the powers of the minister will be very large, and its proclivities towards rematchism are obvious, and from not so long ago we were able to make sure that one story and another works. Of course, the SRS and, as they say, the "drunk regime" were not able to fight both NATO activists, so these villains and five-coloners, at the same time they were locators, and that the minister after that, when 2,000 terrorists were captured, and the SRS was powerless against this powerful enemy, the dosmania and NATO villains, when he caught those 2,000 terrorists, why he didn't lock them up in that special detention unit because they were in his hands. He could apply all these elements and methods that he envisioned to apply to Serbian detainees who would now be in Serbian cadets instead of in The Hague. The Hague casamate has filled and now wants to be there in Serbia, so to move to Belgrade, the UN tribunal, which in a special detention unit will be one of the experimental, this very democratic judicial investigation and simply, most comprehensively to be found in one place, as it was on the island, by political insolents, or opponents. And that's the essence of the bill. Because if there is in the already existing Code of Criminal Crime, as set out in the GVI of the Basic Criminal Code, in terms of these jurisdictions, we do not see at all the need (and therefore the SRS also submits amendments to all these members) that one such law is proposed, except in the case that I have stated here, that there are two arches, a law on criminal proceedings against war crimes offenders, who will be tried or not tried by those who have committed aggression, NATO criminals, and there will be a special, special law that will be tried by political opponents. That's the point. That's why the SRS is against this law, but basically we are, of course, for that law that determines the individual responsibility for each individual war criminal. If there are, if they are established, but not on suspicion and on the basis of a statement, the neighbor said because the child of a volunteer broke a window, so now we're going to bring him as a protected witness and say, yes, he slaughtered 100 Ustashas there and we're going to put leeches on his forehead in the detention unit, put him on the belly of a rat, and he's going to honestly admit that he did it all. That is why, Mr. Minister, the SRS is unable to accept this law, of course, which is why we have submitted amendments to all the members, because they are contrary to the basic principles of democracy and legality that are in force in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31803	Anybody else answer for a word? The word comes from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31804	You can't, Mr. Minister, come and just hold the bank. We work here, and you occasionally just engage in work, instead of answering our questions, not asking us questions. So, when MPs ask for the removal of all members of the bill, that means they failed to convince the government, while the principle debate lasted, that they should withdraw the bill in advance. Since we know we're writing amendments and how far you're willing to go to the end and how much you won't give up, regardless of the power of the arguments, we're trying to convince the government in principle to give up some madness. How she never does that, because she's not smart enough to understand it, we have to use the debate in detail, and we're looking for further arguments by each member of the law, so that at least one member can make such a situation that, if that amendment passes at the vote, as far as possible, the whole of the law falls. It's the technique that we operate when we write such amendments. There are two reasons why the proposer provides for a special detention unit. One reason is probably the impression that you carry from The Hague tribunal, when you visited Carla del Ponte, I believe that you were impressed with something better in detention units that are far more equipped than those of us here - cells in County Prison; I suppose you would certainly want to give our detainees better conditions and that you are aware that you have no financial opportunities to provide it to everyone, so let's at least this number of people who will be responsible for war crimes. Because that's probably what the international public is going to want to take pictures and see, so they can see how much we, as a democratic government, are now toward the prisoners of broad arms. Let them have laptops and gyms there, but they have to agree to be charged with war crimes. That's one reason, and the other can be exactly the opposite of this and I really don't know what your intentions are. Maybe it'll be another naked island. Who knows, we'll see. We'll see how many people commit suicide in those detention units, maybe. That's what happened in Cheveningen, too. That's what happened there. How many people are going to die a toast. Let's see. I don't know what the conditions will be, the special treatment that you will determine in accordance with, you say, with the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Penalty. If that's the case, the prison is the same for everyone and we didn't need a special detention unit, unless the term itself means something to whoever's forcing you to pass this law. In addition, Mr. Minister, without the intention of insulting myself, but without the desire to conduct any political speeches here, especially since this is no tribune, we speak here in front of our colleagues, this is completely closed to the public, there is no need to repeat two of the same sentences that concern the SRS. Think of something new. You saw how many men you had outside the congregation today. Maybe that's why you weren't in this building. There's a lot of dissatisfaction, I guess, here. You forget that in 2000, we disbanded the Assembly after the September elections, which showed... (President: National MPs, this is still so far from the content of the amendment, to delete, to beg you or to return to the amendment or to complete the presentation. ) Well, the minister was as far away as he was. We have heard so much about the political situation that we have called elections, that we have disbanded the Assembly and I strongly advise you. Then you'll be able, one day, shortly after that election, as an opposition, to criticize the government we'll be in. I promise you that we will have a much better attitude towards the opposition and a lot more respect for this Parliament and every MP, than you are now doing in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31805	Anybody else answer for a word? The right to replication, minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31806	We've been listening to everything, rats, leeches and everything. Let's be realistic and talk about what's like Europe in the 21st century. Why a special detention unit? Do you think people who are accused of war crimes should be in the same rooms with rapists, murderers, kidnappers, drug dealers? Is that the kind of treatment you want for people whose destiny you stand for? We won't. We think they should be in a special department and have special treatment and special status. That's the reason. Therefore, if you stand up against this law, you insist on still being tried in The Hague. The point of the whole story is to allow a trial, if it has to be tried, here. The point is, these people can't be mixed up with murderers, etc. One more thing, 1,900 Albanians were mentioned. Let's be realistic here. It's not true that they're amnesty. All those accused of terrorism (Article 125)For genocide, no one has been amnesty. There were some individual pardons. You know who's authorized to grant pardons. It's a man who's head of the state administration. That's part of it. Part two, 1,600 people were released, not at the time of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but at the time of the triple government. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: what does this have to do with us? )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31807	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31808	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will warn the President of the Assembly, given that it is 17.50 hours and that it is nearing the end of today's work, and I do not know whether we will continue to work tomorrow, or whether the chairman, eventually, will schedule a session for another day, I would like to warn you, on the agenda, that we, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are under 113460/2003, to receive one act, addressed to the National Assembly President during yesterday, in which the Government informs us that the bill, which should be the last item of the agenda of this session, is to be submitted to the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for further technical harmonisation of the proposed solutions, and that today we are to receive one act from the cabinets of Vice-President Cedom Jovanovic, which is said to be the technical error of the procedure of the draft legislation on the harmonisation of this day. There may be someone in the government who doesn't talk to someone, but we need to talk to each other here. This paper has nothing to do with us. We do not communicate with Cedomir Jovanovic's cabinet, but exclusively with the Serbian government. We are obliged to respect this paper that we received yesterday from the Serbian government, and let Cedomir Jovanovic, as Deputy Prime Minister, agree with the government what they will continue to do, how they will correct, possibly, their mistake. The agenda here is foreordained by us. Since the government has proposed a agenda and informed us that it is giving up the last item of the agenda, we would have to finish the session with this item of the agenda regarding the law on war crimes. Of course, since I am obliged to call on a member of the Rules of Procedure, that is Article 139, where the legislator has the right to withdraw the bill until the finalisation of the draft law at the session of the National Assembly. As the promoter has already done, he does not have the opportunity to correct it, but only to schedule a new session with that agenda point. I'm saying this as a warning to the President of the Assembly, because I'm inclined to believe that she would go over that fact and, possibly, schedule a further work for another day and that in the procedure to remain this law. (President: three minutes. ) I also once again warn you of article 139. This is the second injury, Madam Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31809	I ask you to take your seat and seek word for a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. I remind you that we have the quorum necessary for the application of the Rules of Procedure, and that the benching is illegal according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I give you a warning. No breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 139. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not withdraw the proposal and this was explained by a technical failure. The paper you received in the title reads - the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and no member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured on the agenda. In addition, we are not determining the agenda of the extraordinary session, but the promoter, whoever it is: the government, individually, a third of the MPs. Those who are authorised for the agenda shall determine the agenda. A new breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31810	Madam Chairman, since you have never been to the Serbian government, and I have, and you probably will never be, I will tell you that the Serbian government has its number in the office bearing the number of 11 acts, and that Mr Cedomir Jovanovic has in his cabinet a number bearing the number of 06 acts. The Serbian government does not need to know at all about this act that Cedomir Jovanovic sent to us. You must understand that the Serbian government is an institution, not Cedomir Jovanovic. Cedomir Jovanovic can draw zebras in the streets, he can go to extort evidence from Slobodan Milosevic, and by order of the public prosecutor, the MUP or I don't know who else, in CZ, who killed Stambolic, Curuvija, this one, that one. That's his problem. He was doing it as a citizen, and that's why he's going to answer someday. But we cannot work here at the request of Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31811	National MPs, please bring your interest in the Vice-President of the Government of Cedomir Jovanovic in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31812	He signed this, both of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31813	You have the right to be interested in the person and what that man represents, but I would ask you to bring out a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31814	I protect the Serbian government from Cedomir Jovanovic. If you don't understand, I don't know how to explain it. I only respect what it says here -- the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the number of the Serbian government. I cannot respect the number from the office carrying the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Cedomir Jovanovic, who can abuse his seal. Don't play games. Maybe this isn't harmonisation, maybe it's not over, maybe it's not in sync. You can see that the man is still abroad and that they're agreeing on it. What are we talking about here? I warn you that what you're doing is a kind of abuse. After all, this was not sent to the MPs, this was sent to the Secretary of the Government. If you're the Secretary of Government, you take it upon yourself. The other thing I wanted to warn you about and go out and advertise is article 95. A vote on the first item of the agenda is scheduled for tomorrow. Look at the stenogram, Natasa Micic led the session and scheduled for tomorrow's vote. Article 95 says, "When all points of the agenda are considered and decided by them, the President of the National Assembly concludes the session of the National Assembly." The voting day is determined when the agenda is exhausted, in the end, don't whisper behind my back. So, it's due tomorrow to vote... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... Although it could only have been done when we exhausted the full agenda. Since we haven't exhausted the agenda, tomorrow can't be voting day. I wanted to advertise that day, that he couldn't schedule a voting day in advance. At least that's how it stands in the Rules of Procedure, you'll read and you'll see, but I didn't want to, because I knew you'd be in this situation. Run in front of the ore, which you would say, if I didn't tell you exactly how the people said it. (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. ) You should make sure that you do what you wrote here, no matter how cocky, and not that we are constantly in a position to warn you how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31815	None of the other objections stand. The first, as regards communication with the government of the Republic of Serbia, has been explained in a decent manner to the MPs and the proposal for an action plan has not been withdrawn from the procedure. As far as your other objections are concerned, you missed (which is understandable, we are tired, it's a long time ago) that it is a special item of the agenda, which allows the President of the National Assembly to decide as it was, because under Article 187 when it comes to the President or the Minister, as when it comes to voting on the budget the day of the vote may... Article 187. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm saying, we're tired, so that's assuming we're a little wrong, but there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The Management Board is on your request, and in view of your claims of infringements of Article 117, it will already be scheduled and will be complemented by the objections you have made in the last 10 minutes. (Natasa Jovanovic: We ask you if tomorrow is a vote? ) I remind you that there is still a session of the National Assembly, which has a quorum and where the benching is forbidden. The strict application of the Rules of Procedure implies that what you are doing is inadmissible. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sreten Mitrovica. Is MP Sreten Mitrovica present in the hall? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? The speech is attended by MP Dragan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. The MP will explain this in five minutes and I will then give you the necessary information on the continuation of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31816	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP who proposed this amendment is not there because he lives in Kosovo and Metohija and because he already mentioned Minister Batic who is all to blame, and now he is the one who is in power, who did not create conditions for Serbs to be allowed out as soon as the night falls, nor are they allowed to travel through the roads of Kosovo and Metohija. So Mr. Sreten Mitrovic left early so he could reach his house by day. The essence of our amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-25-0.u31817	Do you want to discuss his amendment further? If the reason is really that nature, I ask you for a consultation, since that would be entirely within the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to continue the work with this amendment so that MP Sreten Mitrovica can attend the assembly session? Then I ask you to participate in that amendment as well. So, for today, we're finishing our work. A announcement on the day of the vote, which would hold an election for the Minister of Agriculture and Water Management of the Republic of Serbia, is candidate Stojan Jevtic -- postponed for Tuesday, July 1st, due to the preventment of the National Assembly president from holding the vote tomorrow at the scheduled time, and the session continues Tuesday at 10.00 hours of debate in particular, an amendment to article 12, which was tabled by MP Sreten Mitrovica. Thank you for parting in such a cheerful atmosphere, because you can see that with a little goodwill you can be polite and courteous.
