ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26381	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, the session is attended by 112 MPs. Please, to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, insert your identification cards into your MPs. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they are prevented from attending the following MPs: Radmilo Misovic, Meso Omerović, Jelena Milenković, Natasa Milojevic, Milos Radivojčević, Juhas Atila, Miomir Tadic, Bojana Aleksic and Petar Mišić; (later) Milos Lučić, Predrag Stojanović, Gvosden Jovanovic, Mirko Rosic and Zarko Obradović. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a CONCESSION LAW (in principle) I remind you that yesterday, after the opening presentation submitted by the representative of the bill, Goran Pitic, Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, the MPs Jovan Todorovic, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group and MP Branislav Ivkovic, the president of the National Socialist Group participated in the search in principle. I also remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, MPs Miodrag Stamenkovic and Branimir Trajkovic were singled out. Do the MPs, who gave an opinion at the Committee's session, want a word? There's a word from MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26382	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask you, since I have been registered as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, to link this all together, and then I will continue. Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I will talk about the reasons for the exchange of views on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad. When I talk about these reasons, I can't help but think of the answer of that priest to the question of the bishop why he wasn't welcomed by the bell ringing at the church: "Your Orthodoxy, I can give you a hundred reasons, but the first one is - I don't have a bell. "And these reasons begin with the bell, and the bell is for us MPs from the New Serbia parliamentary group almost 10% of the mandates in this unsettled assembly, which raises questions about the legitimacy of the work of this assembly and all the laws we adopt. Therefore, as long as our parliamentary group, which is particularly damaged, does not receive a proper and official answer, we will not support any law. The other 99 questions refer to the content of the law. When it comes to the Law on concessions, it is very important; just to remind the MPs: two-thirds of us from this Parliament in 2000 promoted the DOS electoral programme, and among other points we mentioned decentralisation of government and economic independence of municipalities, i.e. local self-government units. These are also the basic principles of the New Serbia programme. What's important about this law, and to address these questions, you can conclude for yourself. There is no decentralisation of power without decentralisation of property and money. Our municipalities, or units of local self-government, have been seized from their property, and thus the right to have concessions on their territory. The minister himself mentioned yesterday that concessions are one of the basic instruments of development policy and even for the improvement of citizens' living standards. When it comes to concessions, in our understanding, this law makes the same mistake as the Privatization Act. The Privatisation Act must not have been passed without prior denationalisation, or the return of unwarranted possessions! Now we have a case, look, that we're constantly selling the property of the known owners at auctions, that they increase their reactions from day to day, and that the state manifests directly as an accomplice to the theft, because it sells someone else's! It's the same with concessions. We didn't return the property to the municipalities. Now, through concessions, we're going to sell theirs and make it impossible for them to develop, as municipalities could, using their resources. If we are talking about the subject matter of concession, precisely regarding the issue of municipal ownership, it is defined in 16 points, only one of which concerns local self-government, which is "building, maintenance and use of municipal facilities to carry out municipal activities. "The only object of the concession, i.e. its sale, is the income that remains in the entire unit of local self-government. But if you look at Article 14 again, we're coming up with something that's unfavourable, it's that the concession is decided by a commission in which local self-government has only one representative, and it decides most of the votes. What does that mean? The decision has been retrieved from local self-government, concentrated in power, and such a decision-making method immediately creates doubt in the election of concessionaries! That means we've got a monopoly on the decision-making and everything that comes next to the monopoly. So this law, from that point of view, is not an anti-corruption law. So many questions can only be asked on the basis of this Article 14. When it comes to ownership, or distribution of concession compensation, we still have only 5% of the funds going to the local self-government unit, and 95% of the funds remain in the hands of the government. It's probably because of the decentralisation of the government, which we keep talking about. This law, clearly stated here, does not fill the legal void. That means the concession law we already have. This current law, existing, as is said here, and that is the minister's confession, even over 80% coincides with this new one, which we are now installing. What does that mean? If it wasn't important to step up when it comes to concessions, it is a continuity, now clearly defined coalition partners from some new Socialist international. But something else is very important! If there is a concession law, if we haven't had a single concession in the past two years, why now the reason for the urgency of putting this law on the agenda? The concessions were covered, so there was no legal void. We from southern Serbia have been extremely irritated for the past few weeks, probably following the press, it is written intensively about a very promising concession that just south of Serbia should move away; that resource should pull the development of the entire southern Serbia. Do you understand what I'm talking about? It's a complex called Vlasine. I can tell you a lot about him, because I've been from that area for 30 years, camping on Vlasina, I know every rock, every spring. Of all those potentials so far, only part of the resources has been used through the hair plants and the hair "rose", which represents only a drop of water, and the own complex has it in unlimited quantities. That water, we all know, will soon become for us the same as the oil for Africa. Now the question is, isn't this the reason for the urgency of this process, because Vlasino and I have been having problems for the past few years, and some of us here know it. Just one case to mention - one of our men has been trying, for the second year, to get permission to build a mini power plant in those areas, which is typical of concession; he has obtained and obtained about 2,350 kilograms of some various permits and is not yet close to the beginning; he has brought the most professional team from Slovenia that analyzed the property complex and has determined 35 locations for mini power plants; these mini power plants would increase the capacity of the own power plants by 30% and all this with the involvement of private capital and business activities of our people. Now the question arises, if we sell the concession, the complete resource to whom will it go? Surely not in favour of southern Serbia! The second thing, I explain: it may not be a problem with licenses, it is only a matter of the intrinsicity of this state and the lack of a legal mile, but of the intention that this "young one from southern Serbia" might be a "wedding" for a "fatty groom" and when he has a fat groom, a lot of mustaches will get greased. All of this is leading us south to suspect other intentions! It is said that 770m euros, for what the concession is offered, are nowhere near the value of any such pearl, not Serbia, but Europe. Whoever doesn't know a little more about him can come, I'll explain everything to him. This government, with such activities, apparently indicates that it wants to rule indefinitely, with absolute authority. Even if that concession, or Vlasina, I'm talking about, is being sold, what does southern Serbia get? It gets 5% in this step, and then when the concession expires and the concession, or the Serbian government, is returned to all assets that were eventually built in that period, then the Serbian government will sell it and the southern Serbian government remains 5% and 95% goes to the central. Such a concentration of funds and authorities leads to Serbia's "belogradation" to the creation of Serbia as a poorly built body with a huge head and limbs that have completely regenerated! I'm sure a country like that can't function normally. We in New Serbia certainly are not against this law because we are not for European integration and for reforms. We are the first for European integration and for reforms, but let us create a truly democratic decentralised Serbia, where all power will not be concentrated at the top of a pyramid and where we will not have in all of Serbia only one institution that works, which is the Serbian government, which will concentrate all power in its hands. I just mentioned that original DOS program, which most of us here promoted in 2000. Analyze it from point to point and you will find many questions and answers of the type - we have promised, and we have not fulfilled it, so we have done anywhere contrary to what we have promised! That's exactly what makes us from New Serbia think about the continuity of change. And it's about time! That's why we're running the action to get back to October 6th, because the fifth is obviously spent! We from New Serbia will be against this law. I think I've given enough reason for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26383	National MP Miodrag Stamenkovic used time as an authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and as an MP who issued an opinion at the Committee's session. The word has been issued by MP Branimir Trajkovic, and he also issued an opinion at the Committee's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26384	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the government in the shadow of the Democratic Party of Serbia drafted a proposal for a concession law in the summer of 2002 as one of its first draft laws. As DSS MPs were released from the work of the Republic Assembly, the bill did not enter the assembly procedure, so the government of the Republic of Serbia came out with its proposal for concessions on September 23rd 2002. This, for its sake, is the order of events concerning the adoption of the bill. I had my opinion on this law on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs because I think our bill is better. Ours is more transparent, he predicted greater decentralisation and fairer distribution of the money received from concessions. I'm going to look back at a few, in my opinion, the most significant differences between these two draft laws. The DSS proposes the creation of an agency to deal with concessions, normally, with co-operation with the restoring ministries, while the government's proposal is to create commissions at resolution ministries. So, it's a matter of discussion, but we think our proposal is better, because the possibility of such an agency is much greater than if it were all dissipated in several ministries. Constitutional basis for the adoption of this law - in Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in addition, provides that the Republic of Serbia regulates relations with abroad, other economic relations of general interest, a system of protection and promotion of the environment, protection and promotion of the plant and animal world, etc. I deliberately stuck to the protection and promotion of the plant and animal world! Ladies and gentlemen, in our proposal, we explicitly say, "Forest goods cannot be subject to concession." Why? Perhaps the best answer could be given by the Ministry of Ecology, because, as we all know, the forests are the lungs of the state, regions and cities. But when we talk about the woods, I'd be here for a moment, and I'd remind you, Mr. Minister, that this whole story revolves around the arrival of foreign capital. We need this poor country Serbia more than needed fresh money, that's true, money from abroad, so that we don't get "already seen" in the privatisation process -- that of the 212 enterprises, as sold at auctions last year,205 companies take our own, and only seven foreign investors; that means that some new businessmen get businesses without money and credit. There are about 100 families in Serbia that buy out social enterprises, and they are in direct contact with the government of the Republic of Serbia -- not to become some new concessionaries now. Just remember how JUL bossed "Serbishum", so only one private firm had the right to an unlimited cut of the forest, and today this same company sold its plants and scrapers, because the percentage of the profits is too small, because there are no more JULs, normally. What we agreed on on on on the Development Committee, and our Democratic Party of Serbia has been suggesting for more than a year, is a friendly environment for foreign capital. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) The whole set of laws must be followed by this concession law, such as: the law on denationalisation, donation, lising, foreign investment and, most importantly, the guarantee of the state for all contracts with foreign investors. Without these preconditions, you know, there's no investment from foreign partners. One, perhaps good, law on concessions cannot be ignored and bypassed by the government's bad policy. You suggest that only one member can appear in the tender and that the government gives him concessions. With us such a tender would be unsuccessful, there must be more than one participant in the tender. (President: Please finish, you've already been over it for two minutes.) ) Now something that is most interesting, in which we differ, is how the funds are shared from concessions. In your law, you say the funds were made by the concession of the Republic's income compensation. The proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia is much more liberal, we offer more money to local self-government and autonomous provinces, according to the rules of the concession act. There is simply a lot of difference between these two draft laws, and it was impossible for the government's bill to amend the amendments. That's why we think our bill is better and that we should accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26385	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard from the minister yesterday both something good and something bad and something bad for him, and good for Serbia. For example, to break down the concept of agencies the government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted; that is good and that is bad for the minister afterwards. The explanation is that it's a huge job and the agency can't do it. So far, we've heard that in such enormous affairs, the departments are buried, so they have to form agencies. What's more dangerous is that I don't like it and that today, by accepting amendments and writing a new amendment, you've introduced it into the law, which is the involvement of the National Assembly in concessions. I can't talk about how much we need to insist on the separation of three branches of government anymore. It is clear to all of you in this assembly, it is clear to the citizens of Serbia, but whenever an opportunity arises, you first show the supremacy of the executive authority, and then, to satisfy the lay opinions of certain MPs in this assembly, you will ensure the equality of the National Assembly in matters that do not concern the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's our duty to bring or not bring, I think we should pass a concession law. In it we prescribe duties for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, deadlines, way of implementation, etc. What makes us think that in law we should prescribe obligations to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to enforce the law on concessions? You have now adopted some amendment, which has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, that the Serbian government will submit a proposal for concessions to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly is obliged to give an opinion within four months on the concession proposal. What if the National Assembly doesn't give an opinion? Who can oblige the National Assembly to give an opinion, by what law? Or, let's say, a member of the tender committee. By what law does the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia hold a concession tender or anything else? You can't do that, Mr. Minister, ladies and frogs are getting mixed up! As an opposition MP who is in the interest of controlling the government, much more than there are opportunities, I say that a MP should not be on the tender committee and that it does not need the National Assembly to discuss the proposal for a concession. It's not her job! It would be much better if, at the end of 2002, the Government of the Republic of Serbia respected both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and went to the National Assembly and submitted a report on its work, and then to say - there were so many concessions, there were so many bidders, there were so many bidders, the contract seemed so and so, and the Assembly accepted or rejected the government's report. It's the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of concessions, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, cautiously, all the poor countries, and we're still under our own occupation, somewhere and law and somewhere hidden, have been having trouble with concessions. It looks a little ironic, but our advantage is being poor, underdeveloped, we have resources, we have real water, healthy country, healthy air. That's what the vultures are gonna come after, and they're already coming for it. We have the most water in Europe. Is there another main hunger in Europe to drink water with a tap? Very little, very little! You in Belgrade drink tap water. It's quality. I don't know Berlin and Vienna, I don't care if I continue this story of mine. Article 5, point 12 - we had a good concession law, this one should be better because it's newer. I kind of feel like we're bringing in health care facilities. I don't mean construction. I would give a concession for the construction of new health institutions, but for the maintenance and use of health institutions or for their reconstruction, modernisation, maintenance and use and provision of services, it is very discreet and problematic! I repeat, 95% of our citizens have no possibility of private treatment. Their treatment of states helps exclusively in state health institutions. If all state health institutions go into private hands, especially for stationary treatment, how will our citizens be treated in the future, if you know that those who have lost their jobs have not received any compensation for the past six months? You know that Serbia's production is getting weaker, the budget is full but only of excises, taxes, consummation, and not of production. We have a very difficult time ahead! Think carefully; with this proposal and Article 5, practically nothing will be left only to Serbia. It's all in the market now and in the counter: drinking water, hydropower plants, thermal power plants, everything! Think carefully when you give everything, what will be left for you! Article 6 - giving concessions. So far, it's been that way, but there were no concessions, so the problems didn't come out. So, the concession is that for 30 years, the longest, but Section 3 can be extended, the agreed deadline is very vague, as much is very unclear in this law, especially in terms of the contract, and we're going to get there. You say: if, after the conclusion of the contract, there is a significant change in the conditions under which the concession was given, if it could not be predicted at the time of the conclusion of the contract, then that means everything, it could not be predicted, there has been a change and the concession is extended. Let's think differently. Whoever wants a concession, and you give it to him for five years, it's calculated: costs, realisation, income, profit for five years. Why give him the sixth year? If he accepted that in investments, and with five years of use, he realized the plans he had when he entered the concession, what is it that could happen, when we specifically told there about the war and some other conditions, which you couldn't predict when you were calling for a concession tender? Shall we justify the Minister responsible for giving the concession, which he couldn't see and, suddenly, before the concession deadline is up, he says: I couldn't see it, the circumstances changed and give him another year. Why don't we call a new tender before the facilities stay in our possession? Article 11(2) reads: "Extremely, a public tender procedure can be excluded if its implementation would put national defences and security at risk, as decided by the Government". What kind of national defense and security do we have that could be compromised, so there's no tender?- I'm sorry. Yesterday at the trial in The Hague, we watched a movie about the day of the Special Ops Unit shooting a police camera! The public of Serbia has never seen it! That movie's in The Hague! What, what kind of national security and security are we talking about? We don't have it, they've entered every piece of paper, and the police have given them every piece of paper of our national and national security! This is just a way to avoid a tender. I'd erase any way to erase the tender. No concessions without a tender, if you've already decided to make the tender the only one! Article 20(2) says that if a participant designated as a concessionaire under a public tender gives up the conclusion of the contract, the Commission proposes to be the concessionary of the first subsequent participant from the ranking list of Article 15 of the Law, unless the Government decides to repeat the public tender in such a situation under the same conditions and in the same procedure. He can't go first!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26387	Do you want to use the next 10 minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26388	Yeah. He can't go first! You know how to do it. You've also seen auctions do it. What if the first one goes on purpose too high and the next one's too low? Now, God's offers are open, and you'll all be opening up offers for interesting jobs where there's a lot of money, you'll open it early. It's all done, Mr. Jovanovic, ask these people what they've been doing so far, and you're good students too. No, if the first one quits, loses the money, a new tender is being opened! There's no other one! About the contract; why is the government denying that the contract contains all the elements that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking for concession? Why, and the minister praised that freedom, freedom to negotiate the two sides. There's no bargaining for the two sides. There's a resource here that's irrevocable. Unrefundable, for 30 years, and who knows what of us, Minister, from many of us, will be in 30 years. He usually goes away. After all, an unrepeated resource will be exhausted. You say, when he gets the concession, he sits down and negotiates with the government what kind of contract he'll make. He can't! The contract must be made in advance, fully clear, will or won't. A negotiating committee to draw up a contract? You can't do that! You know what you give in the concession, how much it's worth, under what conditions; and the contract is such, the contract can also be the subject of tender documentation. So whoever wants to go to a concession tender has a contract ahead that's gonna have to sign. There must be a contract, and in addition to Article 22, all elements of the contract must be prescribed. You can write a type contract for a concession or for any special concession, a special contract, but to be written already. "On the basis of and in line with the concession agreement, the concession and concessionary can conclude a special contract with banks and other financial institutions, which is closer to regulating the financing of the concession provided for in the concession agreement." Why the concession? Why are the Government of the Republic of Serbia now involved in how will the concessionary ensure the financing of its concessions? What's her interest in that? What's her job here? How will he appear before the concessionaires' bank, and what will the government of the Republic of Serbia do? The government is asking for money from concessionaries, not banks. Article 25(2) reads: "The Treaty of Article 1 can provide that, in the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation of a concession firm, on a proposal from a bank, another financial institution, the concessionor may decide to replace concessionaries with another concessionary. "And why do you say - it can make a decision? And what if the contract does not provide that the concessionary can make a decision to replace the concessionaire with another concessionary, or why would the concentrate worry about whether the concessionary will go bankrupt, what is lost, what is losing the concession? The resources he has offered here are, the contract fails, everything he has invested remains a concession, a new tender is being launched. Why would the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not interested in any company that will go bankrupt, worry whether a concessionaire will go bankrupt? Why is it that a concessionary can get a concession to transfer the other person, with the agreement of the concession? And what if it was another person, in fact, a real concessionaire who wasn't supposed to show up when the tender was called; whether the Chumes paved our paths, and he didn't show up anywhere, but appeared on the tender by someone else, and the roads were paved by the plagues! Well, nothing, Mr. Jovanovic, except it's the biggest mobster in Serbia, that's all, that's Serbian Al Capone! I'd like to see America where Capone would pave the way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26389	I warn you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26390	Is that what you're warning Mr. Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26391	No, I'm warning you, you're behind the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26392	I didn't get it. I thought you were warning me what's throwing away. Article 31 states that the increase in the value of the facility, devices and facilities in the state property, which are the subject of the concession, is the property of the Republic, if the concession contract is not otherwise arranged. Why is that? It increases value to make a bigger profit. It's not a contract to determine differently, it's a property of the Republic. All the concessionaire invests in the concession is property of the Republic, because he plans it all on the deadline on which the concession is given, he makes an analysis and knows whether it is worth it or not. That item 2 is sufficient to say that it has the right to compensation for the improvements made, if provided by the contract. Article 34. - which is also against the SRS programme and I've had multiple problems with the Coalition together and with all of you who claim to be new democratic authorities, and you're in favour of expropriation - in point 2. says that if an expropriation, determination of general interest and expropriation is to be carried out by emergency procedure. Now I ask you - what is the imperative, which property is most important in the Republic of Serbia? I mean private property. She's being held as a saint. And now someone wants a concession where a citizen of NN has a field. It's more important to that citizen of the NN field that he takes two tons of wheat off than to a concessionary from which he'll take millions of dollars. Because whoever wants millions first has to deal with this one that has two tons of wheat on its homeland! No kidnapping! Fumicino Airport for five years couldn't be safe to land jumbo jets, it bothered one field. And instead of projecting that they bought the field, they dragged the runway to the field, and they started making deals with the peasant, but he was protected by the state and the law. And I beg you, if you can do it, and if you can't, and if you won't, there's no excuse, protect your private property until the end. Whoever wants a concession should not bring us here into the final state of affairs and say, yes, I have made a contract, I have a problem with the field, give an urgent determination of the general interests of expropriation, and as far as the market belongs to it - it can't, but first make sure that everything is free to be the subject of the concession, but not by kidnapping, not by expropriation, but by agreement, because it's his! As much as he pulls it out, he pulls it out. Maybe the concessionaire will give him a percentage, but don't expropriate because it's a classic kidnapping of private property. For someone else's interest, and for the state's interest, we can't allow expropriation, let alone the interest of the concessionaire. What's more important than a man who has his own field? Concessions are interrupted if its concession of action endangers the environment and health, which could not be predicted at the time of the concession, and this is not accepted by any concessionary. This is now an excuse for the government to break up the concession with someone she doesn't like. You don't know what's going to happen, so it's going to cause environmental damage, which you couldn't have predicted. Right away, the government, and the ministers, and everyone. Well, if you involve the National Assembly in that, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will disband! You wonder what there is no concession! So what's the safety of the concessionaire now if you give him this. Anyone can come. Change power, be that plague concessionary, we say he's a bandit, change power. We say, Article 40, point 1 - concessions break up, because you were willing by the previous government, now you're not at our will and we're breaking up your concession. There's a lot of things, we haven't written amendments to this bill because it's really hard to write amendments to the concept if we change everything completely and we come into a situation where we want to change your law conceptually, that already the third or fourth amendments, after two or three have been rejected before, are pointless, because they contain an idea that we drag through the whole bill, and it's already invaluable, as soon as you don't accept what would change the whole law at the beginning. We will be against this bill, and you will have problems if this text is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26393	The word is by the people's elector Milutin Svedovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Elections, gentlemen of the Ministers, as a proposal for a concession law, on behalf of the DSS, I was sincerely pleased when the government withdrew three laws among them, including a proposal for a concession law, because I thought that you would adopt some of the suggestions set out in our bill. But I saw that none of it was adopted. It is true that the applicable Law on concessions has become too narrow to express new economic and political relations in Serbia's society for several reasons. First and foremost, there are marked economic changes, which must be expressed and reflected in concessions. It is necessary to create new assumptions for the long-term investment of foreign and domestic capital in the area of activity that enters the exclusive jurisdiction of the state and not only of the state, but of the AP or local self-government units. Investors must be given a new opportunity to invest profitablely, but subject to mandatory conditions - to permanently improve the civilization, economic and economic situation in Serbia. The second thing is that the applicable law was a shift in concessions in Serbia, i.e. to regulate concessions in Serbia, but to have certain legal gaps despite the obvious causality of the law. Thirdly, the current law does not provide for the possibility that the concession is granted by an autonomous province, which is unfortunately not seen in this bill, and also does not clearly regulate concessions when it is a concession of the units of local self-government. Therefore, the new law should be passed in order to express Serbia's decentralisation in the area of concessions as well. Finally, the Federal Assembly also adopted a Law on Foreign Investments that changes and liberalises the regime of foreign investment, which is important for the matter of concessions. The law on foreign investment is explicitly left to the republics - members to regulate concessions, where Article 5 is held. The law on foreign investment states that a foreign investor can be granted a licence for the use of natural wealth, good in general use or for the exercise of a general interest activity, in accordance with the law, and that a foreign investor can be authorised to build, use and transfer a particular facility, plant, technology or drive, as well as infrastructure and communication facilities. However, the law, proposed by the government, unfortunately lacks much decentralisation, as the AP has just been expelled to be a concession. Then, when we start to list the law, we immediately encounter Article 4 where the government has given only one sentence the conditions to grant concessions. Concessions on natural wealth and good in general use are given if they can be done rationally by their use. If a concession is given to work of general interest, then the technological and technical characteristics of the process of taking place must be improved and technical and technological unity and more efficient work, as well as more rational management of infrastructure systems. And, if, at the end of the concession, it is only possible to improve the rationality of the work of the public undertaking that gives the concession to the construction and use of facilities, devices and facilities used by public undertakings. It means that one of these conditions can determine why we're giving a concession. What has been avoided in this bill, and what I think is very important, is that concessions, simply, in all the surrounding countries that have modern concession laws, cannot concession forest goods to either domestic or foreign persons. So it's a restriction that must certainly be introduced into the bill. Then, I don't know why, if we consider this law to be a practical amendment to the 1997 law, the agency was abolished. One of my predecessors here yesterday explained that local self-government units are absolutely unprepared, which I guarantee, to get themselves into the story of concessions without professional consultation. And I have to commend the minister and the ministry for seriously, as the minister said, consulting all the prominent experts, because it is clear that this proposal is that. Proposal for a concession law devoid of originality. There's no good concession law that can replace the government's bad policy anywhere in the world, even here. So this law can't replace something that the government's policy has to do, which is to create an appropriate environment. What does a concession agreement in a country where a contract is not a contract and the court is not a court? I must, Mr. Minister, remind you that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has issued an unconstitutional law on judges because they are dependent on the government. So, if the Constitutional Court of a state says the judges depend on the government, then what is the magnet and ambience for foreign investors? It's one of these laws, as good as it is and as much as it can attract it, it won't create a real environment. Before I let my colleagues from the DSS present our bill in some segments, I must remind you -- you say you used foreign experience and that this law passed verification in various international institutions. I also have to remind you that the Heritage Foundation and Njordstreet jyrneal organize each year a ranking of the economic freedoms of certain states and you know well that from 1994 to 2001 Yugoslavia was not included in the same. Only in 2002, for the first time, the SRJ was ranked on the list, out of 155 states took 144th place, with an index of 4.05 and was classified in the last group of economically unfree countries. It is another argument that, if we look at what foreign economists say, it is simply that the environment is not good here and, however good the law is, we will hardly be able to attract investors who would engage that, in a country in which no vertical division of government has been completed, invest their money and improve that state with their capital. I still have to say that we are at 66th place in the world for the safety of investments, in that same analysis. So attracting foreign capital is not a matter of law, of the greater ambience that the government must create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26395	Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs Goran Pitic reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26396	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to start by commenting on the honourable MP from the DSS parliamentary group, after quoting one comment from a foundation that evaluated Serbia just as it was said, which is true, and I do not know whether you are directed to the structure of the comment itself, because in that comment there are estimates which, absolutely, are not confirmed in this way but are just denied by all those who follow us in the work of giving the arrangement both by the IMF and the World Bank. For example, I'm sure you'll agree, there's a monetary policy assessed by the worst estimate - 5, and of all the institutions that follow us continuously that this is one of the basic achievements that this government has done. So when you look at the structure and the update of these criteria, you really get that assessment that the Foundation's representatives themselves said they were working on some data that didn't give a valid result. Secondly, he's been doing analyses of the Freedom House, while we're at it, which are also recognised for the assessment of economic freedoms, and we're far from what that same Heritage Foundation did, so by respecting that exact information you said, I still have to point out that reality is very different, and it's undeniable that the issue of economic freedoms is something to do and how it should work, that depends, which you said very nicely, not only from the laws themselves but also from the ambience that is created, or primarily from the application of those laws. I will try to comment on the details, and something in principle: yesterday there was a lot of talk about concessions being approached by poor countries, that this is a way out for those countries who don't know how else to solve certain problems in infrastructure. That's not true! False because all those who know more about concessions and what is happening in countries - Italy, France, Germany, Canada - see concessions as a way of solving, not just financing, but a way of solving quality, solving problems. For this reason, the Law on concessions does not absolutely come down to the principle that it is put into practice for the purpose of solving the problem of a poor country, where, normally, yesterday, I indicated, just based on negative experiences in our environment in terms of concessions - it was to make sure that the concession procedure is properly regulated, the choice procedure of concessionaries, and in particular the rules that should be defined in order not to happen cases like in Sofia, Hungary, Croatia, which I have mentioned. I'll make a few technical comments. I think there's a certain misunderstanding somewhere. I tried to explain yesterday, it's probably a mistake for me, too, that I didn't insist enough, that the law, when it comes to listing those actions that can be the subject of concessions and those goods, that it's a dispositive character and that it's given, as I said yesterday, as an edgeempli causa, as an example of working and not exhausting the list. A colleague from New Serbia's Parliament Club said the local administration sees paragraph 16 in Article 5. It is the key to happening at the level of local self-government, but also if there are other elements, it is the law that gives space to local self-government to solve issues and to submit proposals for concessions if something is subject to this law in terms of the subject matter of concession. I didn't admit anything yesterday in the sense that it was 80% of the law taken over. We treated technical solutions and certain things valid in the Law itself in the same way or in the same way. I also said that in many issues there is no reason to change, because these things are defined in all laws in the same way. It is not disputed, I said at the very beginning, that I respect what was done in the previous Law, but just as my colleague from the DSS said, thank you for this objectivity, that the need for a new law, that the modernity of business traffic and the character of transformation and transactions, which happen, is such a nature, that the past Law passed. The law does not cover with its beauty what happened in the meantime and is happening in modern business traffic. For this reason, this law has these new principles and has procedures that define and give the spirit of the new law. Over 2,350 kilos of licenses; that's precisely because it wasn't even an agency that's been talked about so much. So the agency wasn't founded, because it didn't have the opportunity to function and show its effectiveness. Yesterday I said, I have to correct my colleague Nikolic, however, strictly said when it comes to concessions, the government's proposal was that in these affairs, given the dispersion of activities, from mineral raw materials through water industry, through traffic, municipal self-government, etc., not to burden the activities of a double administration in the form of an agency. It is precisely the same resources used by the agency that should be used where they belong, and these are the restoring ministries, i.e. local self-government when it comes to municipal activities. I apologize to my colleagues from the DSS, if you define and limit concessions to 10 years for local self-government, then what decentralisation we're talking about, and we force decentralisation So we're saying that the same treatment, nature - the subject of the concession will define whether it's 10 years, whether it's 15, is 30, because then it's a matter of the expected duration of the subject of concession and the end of the fee. These are elements that define the question of regulation of concessions. I must comment on the issues of the distribution of concession fees. We read with due attention the draft concession laws submitted by the DSS. It is that this law treats natural resources, good in the general application that is in the property of the Republic, unlike the character of your law which explicitly gives space that the subject of concessions can also be good at the general use that is in private property. This is a serious difference in character because in the property of the Republic is what can be the subject of concession, and then it is also the public income of the state. Public revenue from the state, if we want to obey the laws. Yesterday I said, the task of the Assembly, the natural obligation, the need, is to discuss the budget at the moment it is on the agenda and to define, in which way all territorial communities will participate and be part of the bulky side in derealising the budget. That's what you define here. This is what you form in priorities: whether it will go into development infrastructure or you will say - pensioners, health care, education should be given for 12 months. So it's a question of one optimisation, with the definition of priorities, and the Serbian government has defined that it is the realisation of the rights of Serbian citizens to gain their privileges, and what remains, in this poor environment, to go into the realisation of development and infrastructure. The rest is, indeed, a matter of demagogy. It is a story that we now need to give everything into the development of infrastructure when, on the other hand, the question of how to realise what Serbian citizens rightly require to realize. I said yesterday, and I really don't see any other argument, there's no government in the world that would say they won't invest in anything that would make citizens say -- we want to vote for that same government again. It's visible: it's roads, it's environmental protection, it's water, it's all that matters to the citizens of Serbia. I just need to say a few more things that concern, especially Mr. Nikolic's comments. I couldn't catch the consistency of comments everywhere in the context: when something is done, then it's something negative; when it's not done, it's negative again. I can only assume that that's your logical consistency I appreciate it, but I don't think it's been displayed here, because, on the one hand, if I understand you correctly, you've pointed out the positiveness of the Agency's concept; if that's true, then we've removed that part of the potential consistency; on the other hand, I've been very precise about why in this case, in terms of concessions, the concept of the agency is not appropriate. Also, the question of the National Assembly -- the division of power, I know we're not going to debate it, is the issue of co-operation between all different branches of government. In this context, this is the government's proposal, in fact, to adopt amendments that only for concessions of strategic and international importance - and this is exactly what these issues you've been talking about, some expropriations and defining how to improve, in key segments, the standard of population and how to ensure what gives the country's legitimacy to the world, according to some national importance - the National Assembly has the opportunity to say that we want to give this to a concession or not. I think that requires that the representatives of the people be defined on this issue and that no government has the obligation and the burden to decide such large matters on its own. That's the logic of this proposal. So we accepted that possibility and suggested that the National Assembly accept that kind of communication, that it be defined in that first step whether something will or will not go into concession. Secondly, I think it's also good, why run away from responsibility that the National Assembly, autonomous province and local self-government have their own member in the tender commission. If you want us to have transparent procedures, go ahead and participate in these committees, where your representative will have a legitimate right to say - this was not right, this was not done in a way that respected procedures and thus tell the public that things are happening that are not good for Serbia. This ensures the participation of all relevant structures and ensures that the concession has the legitimacy of the National Assembly. First I'm going to suggest that the opposition be a member of the tender committee. Here, give your representative. I'm sure I'll make sure of that. That's what you'll agree to, who you mean by a member of the opposition. I realized that Mr Nikolic wants to change the foundations of the legal norm and that he is returning to Roman law and wants to make one of his contributions to the regulation of Roman law. I don't think that's our job, and I don't think it's possible. There's a clause rebus sic stantibus, and it means it's exactly taking care of changed circumstances, and you were talking about them, which they couldn't predict. This is what all the legal norms in the world know and we simply took over in a way that has been known since Roman times and through Roman law, are the basis of all the legal norms of private law and that is the fundamental foundation of this law. It went to another foundation -- the principle of the contract, which I was talking about, and I think that's where we agreed in principle. To take advantage of another opportunity to call on old times, where it is said to mean the principle of "the contract is a law for the parties", i.e. Pacta sant servanda. These are Roman things taken over, they have their logic in the spirit of the law applied in the European Union. That motive is being passed in this law, I was hoping it would be recognized and there would be no comment in that direction that, eventually, it indicates that these are the shortcomings of this law. The question of the concession contract; the concession agreement was left with the freedom to define the differences of some forms of concession, which is a matter of the parties, but what are the determinations of the concession contract, what is specified, it was produced from the concession act, nothing more. What is in the concession act is also in the provisions of the contract, and it is left to be some B.O.T. (building-operate-transfer), a series of forms of concession. To be consistent with what I commented yesterday on to Mr. Ivkovic, precisely because modern business traffic knows a lot of concession forms that can be subject to concessions is left to the parties to define their obligations. Normally there's a lot of details I could talk about. I am sorry that the Serbian Radical Party did not give amendments to the Prescribing Law, because it is still technical and not the essence of the law, so some things could be discussed. When it comes to the concession and concessionary having the possibility to conclude a contract with financial organisations - well, surely, because it is the obligations that can last for 30 years, because it is the need for the concentrate to have the certainty that the concessionary will have the financial capacity to persist in that course, which means that someone will follow the concessionary over a certain period of time and that on that side the concession will have certain security, guarantee that these things will happen. I've heard again the possibility that if a potential concessionaire appears on the tender, a public tender should be repeated. For who? For the same concessionaire, I suppose. According to the experience of concessions from other countries, there are areas where there are two or three potential concessionaires in the world; and it is rare that these two or three potential concessionaries work as a consortium and appear in concessional tenders as consortiums. There is no other option if only one consortium appears in a particular tender, and fulfils all the conditions of the concession act, where all the members of the tender commission are foreseen by all the elements of the Authority, that we cannot therefore realise a particular concession that has no other way to realise it. Here it is also given the possibility to assess, based on strictly defined tender criteria, which and how it meets certain criteria; normally, if one appears and does not meet the criteria, it means that it will not be selected. Also, if one appears, one can be selected, but that involves a certain communication. I have a lot of comments, but today's debate is not about the DSS concession law, it's about the Serbian Government concession law. I have to comment on certain objections regarding the expansion of jurisdiction, where the DSS has assessed the granting of jurisdiction to the autonomous province as anti-constitutional. As far as concessions are concerned, they are not entrusted to an autonomous province. There is for good in its Republic the competent Republic of Serbia! From this context comes the story of concession fees, where there is absolutely no way of determining them, but the agency influences, brings some criteria and negotiates that the concession fee will be sorted. I think that's really bad! The spirit of this law was to minimize the element of discretion, not to spread. One more thing, too, is a huge difference: this law defines a public tender as an institute for winning and selecting concessionaries. Unlike all the proposals I've heard so far, and including yours, which implies that the agency defines ways of public competition, which means it can be through offers, auctions, various ways, believe me, the superiority of the public tender is unquestionable. And I suggest to Mr Nikolic the same thing, we can talk later about the difference between auction and tender, but the superiority of the public tender compared to the other methods is undecided. I leave it to you in cash when there are examples. Here, be a member of the tender commission, and you'll get that cash, too, if there is, and then hopefully you'll publicly say there was. Because right now, let me tell you about all forms of procedures like this: they minimize forms of discretion. Unlike all the other forms that have been and I have no doubt that in a number of years, especially in the '90s, and how they entered the elements of what you're commenting on.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26397	There's no basis for replication. It is mentioned, is not offended, is not misread. I followed closely. Mr. Minister asked, if I understood correctly, and you nodded, you understood well. Under Article 97(3), the President of the Assembly determines whether there is a basis for replication. It doesn't exist. The minister only responded to yours. He didn't insult you. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. There's no basis. The Management Board will decide if I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to Article 97 of Item 3. There's no replica. (Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. There's no replica. Please sit down. There is no breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 90(3) I do not allow you the right to reply. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26398	It is truly incomprehensible, Mrs Micic, that you would mind for two or three minutes, how much a representative of the parliamentary group would use to respond to a half-hour statement by the minister on the views of the MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26399	Which member of the Rules of Procedure do you advertise?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26400	... and my personal views that are misread here. Mr. Minister is an equal participant, or more equal than all of us. He has the right to answer his word whenever he wants, he can speak as much as he wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26401	You didn't get the right to a replica. I'm asking you which members are you advertising?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26402	It causes replication by its exposure, and that replica does not have to be negative. That replica is the answer to what the minister was saying. There are no rules of procedure in the world that would not allow an MP called from a pay phone, that a parliamentary group called from a pay phone would not come out and explain the position the minister had negatively interpreted! Don't go all the way, it doesn't make any sense. What would that look like? For a minute and a half, I've convinced you what democracy is, so far I'd have ended up with a replica of the minister. That's just because...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26403	That's why you're going to end up with a warning, because you're not talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you're not even a member, you've abused the pay phone. I didn't give you the right to a replica, and I'm asking you to step away from the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26404	Don't threaten me when you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. If it's not enough for you that my name is mentioned from the pay phone, if it's not enough for you that it's a parliamentary group, that is. The party mentioned by the pay phone, what basis is there for replication?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26405	There's absolutely no such thing! So, no offense to what the minister said about the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26406	The minister spoke of my ability...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26407	Please leave the pay phone, otherwise I will apply the measures of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26408	Mrs. Micic, the minister expressed himself negatively on my ability to reason logically. It's not offensive for you, it is for me!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26409	That's what I'm assessing, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26410	You smiled while he said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26411	National MP, based on Article 101. Rules of Procedure, I give you my first warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26412	Don't warn me, make incidents in the assembly, unnecessary. This is what you're doing. I have a basis for replication, I have a right to replication, and you're making incidents!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26413	That will be decided by the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26414	Do you want the incident - you'll have it?- I'm sorry. It's the easiest thing in this congregation. The hardest part is that the Assembly works, and you never make it happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26415	Please step aside so we can continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26416	I'm looking for a replica. I'm mentioned, the SRS is mentioned, the public of Serbia saw it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26417	True, but you're not offended and you don't have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26418	Yes, the man said I can't think logically!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26419	I estimate you're not, and it's my right to judge. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26420	Mrs. Micic, I'm really thinking about whether you deserve the grains of my respect. The moment you step out of line, Mrs. Micic, and don't forget that now...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26421	Mr. Nikolic, don't let me remind you that you overstepped at the previous session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26422	... You are acting as President of the Republic of Serbia. At least let it bind you. The fact that you happen to be President of the Assembly, may be an honor to you, but you are now the highest authority of the executive authority, and you are harassing the MP in the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26423	Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26424	I just want to tell Mr. Secretary that the DSS has never been infuriated and that all these criticisms we've referred to have been the most well-intentioned. I must say one thing: that the moment the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposed to this assembly, and the Assembly passed the Omnibus Law on status and membership of the AP Vojvodina, then absolutely there is a need for the Autonomous Region to grant concessions to those parts that are within its jurisdiction. You've seen there that we've defined correctly, let's say, if the autonomous province gives a concession, then it gets an autonomous province and a local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26425	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? No, I don't. We continue the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. The word has been given by MP Predrag Patic, the DOS parliamentary group, and then by MP Zoran D. Nikolic, the MP group of the People's Socialists.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26426	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have already been introduced to this debate saying that the topic is very important and very ticky. This law is not difficult to criticize. It is also new as anything new on the agenda could easily be criticised from this pay phone to the public, because there is nothing to compare with. Concession, practically, was gone in this country and this law should provide them. All that is said at the expense of this law may be, but it does not have to be, as it has not been in a number of cases for the laws which have been discussed in this congregation. The legislator of this law had to reconcile several interests: first, the needs of the state; then, the ambitions of potential concessionaires and to ensure the protection of the state from the excessive ambitions of concessionaries, perhaps hidden in the process of giving the concession. State needs for concessions are high. It's defined by this law. So traffic problems (road, rail, air traffic and telecommunications) are known to everyone. We all see that, all of us living in Serbia. The subject matter of this law is natural goods that should be given behind industrial exploitation, as well as for the development of tourism. It is also very interesting that this law allows municipalities to solve municipal problems. This law should allow the state to function, to breathe, to make blood flow faster through this country. This is what the primary effect of the concession law and what concessions need to bring directly. There should be no fear of foreigners or our citizens of concessionaries, because they will contribute by their investment that our country works better, will create better jobs for our people, for our workers. That's what's gonna be a direct consequence of the concession. It is not necessary to forget the indirect consequences of the concessions, which is that everything that can be relied on, to support the subject matter of the concession, will be developed with that concession. So, all those small and medium-sized enterprises that will be able to form on the basis of a concession, it will form. This will certainly be done by our people, and surely our people will be employed in these companies, in these motels, in the restaurants by the highways. It's the same thing to take care of. It's an interesting provision that respects local self-government. It respects it in several ways: first, the possibility of local self-government launching a concession in the field of municipal economy; secondly, that local self-government should launch a concession that does not concern strictly the public economy, but is very important for certain municipalities, especially underdeveloped municipalities; thirdly, it is important that through this law a respected and local self-government, because local self-government where concessions are granted will receive 5% of concession fees, which will certainly, especially to undeveloped municipalities, be very valuable aid. The most important question was to determine the length of the kncessium. I think the opening statements show that this measure is up to 30 years good. It is important to note that even after 30 years, the object of the concession becomes the property of the state and that the concessionaire is obliged to hand over the subject matter of the concession in functional condition. In addition, the protection of the environment and natural resources is potential in this law, because the subject of concessions can also be natural goods. That's very significant, because this is how the environment is preserved. So as for the environment and excessive ambitions of concessionaires, who may in search of a profit violate some of the agreements they will sign, it is also important that no one will be able to deal with something that threatens the environment. All that is at the expense of the environment, which is not provided for by the concession agreement, automatically withdraws the termination of the concession contract. It should also be said that all items found in concession works, if they are of historical, cultural or natural importance, are state property. The concessionaire is obliged to hand these items over to the state. This should be underlined and it will all be specified by the concession agreement. The law provides for the signing of a concession contract which will accurately specify the obligations of both states and concessionaires, so that in the event of a breach of the contract, it will be clear who violated the contract and all the dilemmas that could potentially arise in the execution of the concession will be removed. In this law, it is very important, and it has shown value in the Privatisation Act, the public in the concession process. This law ensures that all interested in certain segments of concessions can be present when these concession segments take place: therefore, if local self-government is interested, it will be made in the tender, in the tendering, in the decision-making process; concessionaries will be present in the decision to award concessions. So we can compare that part to the Privatization Act, and he hasn't produced any affair at this time. The concession law is a chance for small municipalities, especially underdeveloped. It's a chance for them to get a business entity capable of pulling development into these municipalities, which, by itself, not just in the past two, but in the last 50 years, they haven't had the opportunity to launch. I think that's why it's important that natural resources are also the subject of concessions, because it's practically the only thing small underdeveloped municipalities have and that they can give in concessions, and that can pull development in certain municipalities. Of course, it is very important to choose carefully the subject of the concession and make a careful contract with the concessionary, so that it does not result in something wrong. So the expectations of this law are to speed up Serbia's development, to speed up Serbia's developments, to increase the number of jobs our people would be employed through concessions, to give many municipalities with so far poor prospects a chance to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26427	The word is by MP Zoran D. Nikolic, followed by MP Vlatko Sekulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26428	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, given that in yesterday's presentation I presented a good part of the reason why the National Socialist MP group would define themselves to vote against the proposed law on concessions, I would not want to be in a position to repeat myself, so I will try to present some new moments which define us to plead in such a way. Before you state these reasons, I'd like to say that the 1997 Law is good. It was created in collaboration with the Institute of Comparative Law and has consulted as many as 10 developed economic legislations; I know about Spanish, Belgian, Slovak, Polish and not to list any further. In all things, it is harmonised with the law of the European Union. It is not the law of an obstacle that the concession does not exist, nor will this law, if voted, be an absolute guarantee that the concession will be. According to us, the basic reasons why there are no concessions in Serbia are two rounds of issues. The first is a really severe recession in the economy, caused primarily by the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the lack of investment activities, so it is logical that there is no requirement for concessions. Another legal uncertainty in these areas is for a long time, and especially for foreign investors, who do not trust that within 30 years, as long as this law guarantees certain stable conditions of engagement, it will indeed be met. These two reasons are, in fact, the key that the concession does not exist, regardless of good legislation. Yesterday, I said that the government had thrown out a small part of the old 1997 Law, and among other things, Article 4 which prescribed conditions for giving concessions. It was precisely the legal regulation of conditions that should have bound future concessionaires, but also the government, the one giving concessions, to meet these conditions. I will remind you, it was down to three groups of conditions: the first was to ensure the rational use of natural resources by giving the concession; the second, to carry out the technological and technical improvement of the work that is the subject of the concession; and, third, to protect and improve the environment. What bothered it to remain a commitment to the government and future concessionaries even now? One small controversy with Mr. Secretary. It's not good that we who pass this law at the beginning have different views on the grammar of the law. "The object of the concession can be... ", so says Article 5, which regulates the subject matter of concession. This is where the bill promoter is defined as the so-called so-called. the method of positive emulation; lists of actions which may be the subject of the concession. This means that everything that is not listed cannot be the subject of a concession. And if the government had defined itself, which could certainly have been proposed, for the method of negative emulation and said the subject of the concession couldn't be that, that and that, then that would mean that everything else could be the subject of the concession. So it's not a dispositive norm, it's a norm that's very limited to the subject matter of the concession on the activity of the numbered member. Another issue over the position of the National Assembly, which is partially changing some amendments. I am always, even in this situation against the law to change the position of the National Assembly. Not because I want to, but because it is in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 73, where the jurisdiction of the National Assembly is determined, it does. At that last point, the rubber dot says "is doing other jobs in accordance with the Constitution". Thus, the jurisdiction of the National Assembly cannot be extended by law, for it is exclusively established by the Constitution. The government said in Article 90, "is doing other jobs in accordance with the Constitution and the laws". So the government can put into jurisdiction something that the Constitution doesn't say. This is simply not possible for the National Assembly, and it is not good, because that fine balance of three authorities, judicial, legislative and executive ones, is corrupt. The only respect for the Constitution is the guarantee of stability and mutual harmony between these three authorities. That's why it's not good to touch that part. And finally, one question we have tried to open with our amendment to Article 3, and it will certainly be updated in many other laws, this is the notion of a domestic and foreign person within the meaning of the Law on concessions. Article 3 defines a foreign person. However, domestic faces are not defined. I think that after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter, which turned the federal state into a community of states, the need to redefine and the notion of a domestic person within the meaning of this law was created. In our opinion, this domestic figure, within the meaning of this concession law, is a legal person based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and a natural person residing in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or a residence of at least two years. I don't think there are any more serious obstacles to this legal perception and respect through the vote on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26429	The word is by MP Vlatko Sekulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26430	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the evaluation of our parliamentary group is that yesterday and today we are discussing a good legal project. Its best interests are essentially two: the first, which in a clear way regulates important matter that should contribute to the further development of the economy and the overall standard in our country; the second, which was, in our assessment, very good co-operation between the legislative and executive authorities in the process of conjecturing this legislative project, primarily through the work of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the abroad and the competent ministry. I think improvements through the amendment procedure, i.e. through the procedure of proposing amendments to that forum, have been made and some significant shifts have been made. One of these shifts is certain that the participation of the Assembly itself is defined in the tender procedure, i.e. the concession procedure. I note this because my predecessor was saying whether or not to regulate the jurisdiction of the Assembly. I think it's of interest to all of us to, for example. in those concessions, which we could define to be of republican importance, the National Assembly has been competent and familiar with the whole process from the beginning. Also, a shift was made regarding the AP Vojvodina, which also for the reasons of a certain legitimacy, related to the granting of concession rights, to include it in the procedure itself, and the same is true, after all, for local self-government. Because this law differs from previous legal projects, i.e. acts that regulated this matter, and they had just the drawbacks in those parts, which did not regulate an entire segment that could give concession law. I think it's also one of the good characteristics of this law, which we finally have at least a clear legal procedure, whether it's communal activity, whether it's mineral raw materials. There are now clear procedures on the basis of which interested persons can obtain certain concession rights. I would also point out that all parliamentary groups represented in this committee, both the parliamentary group to which I belong and the rest, participated in the process of amendments. I would only refer to two other questions that have often been asked here. In some ways there are both public and misunderstandings about the concession itself. It has been pointed out earlier that, allegedly, the concession model should essentially enable a more efficient way of exploiting or managing certain activities, or good ones, to be used only by those countries that do not have enough resources to invest their own money in the realisation of such projects. I think the predecessors talked about it, too. I think it is still important to repeat once again that the concession model is known both in poor countries, African and Asian, and also in the developed world, the United States, the European Union. It often resorts to this model because it is simply a widely accepted legal mechanism to regulate matter in a certain way, i.e. to articulate interests on one side of the investor, and on the other hand, interested in regulating this activity. So I think this law fills in some kind of void that existed. It is true that there is a previous Law, but when we were already in a situation whether to make new laws or improve existing laws, it is still better to focus on making a new law. One of the predecessors also said that there are problems regarding our country's attractiveness for foreign investment, especially in this area. Simply, the very news that a new law on concessions has been passed, fully in line with European Union standards, is also one of the incentives to attract investors in this area, both domestic and foreign. After all, I think the benefits, or positive effects of this law, will come very soon. The government, responsible for the adoption of these concession acts, should not be hasty. There are also negative experiences as far as concessions are concerned. I think Hungary's earlier and mentioned example, it has a very negative experience related to giving concessions on the highway from Budapest to the south, that is, Serbia. Hence, the government's good orientation is not to go to concessions related to the realisation of highways, but to apply some other models, credit or joint investment. It does not need to run away from this model, it has its own purpose and purpose, it does not need to be hasty and the government does not need in the process of making concessions to be too strict about local self-government. Maybe there's only one objection to this law that puts a lot of it in government's jurisdiction as to the adoption of the concession act itself. It has its own justification, but it should also have elements of decentralisation. Maybe these elements of decentralisation, especially when it comes to communal activity, could have been even more pronounced, but let's take the first steps in that direction, so we'll see. I think the representatives of local self-government, who are also MPs, will also have certain proposals to improve this law, if necessary. But at this point, the government should keep in mind that it is not the same when discussing a concession for the production of electricity, i.e. the construction of a thermal power plant, and giving concessions to waste disposal in Nis, Belgrade or Paracino. It doesn't mean the same thing. Therefore, I think that the government in its future work on this should also take into account the importance of certain investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26431	The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26432	Dear Mrs. Comic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the proposal for a concession law is so skillfully established that the government, unconsciously, will allow a group of people, once they leave the government, to be in a position to suck out capital from Serbia and to live happily in the countries of united Europe. In this law, the Government gives the final word on the choice of concessionaires in a public tender, and very often without a public tender, through concessions or by jumping into the place of failed concessionaires. Very imaginatively, many ways have been devised by which a small group of people will come up with natural wealth and the resources of Serbia. I won't be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, if someone from Novi Sad or Surčina gets a concession for small money with the exclusive right to disembark all of Tara or Fruska Gora. They did not come in vain to Nusic's lady minister's famous and unknown relatives and seek concessions to be removed because they allegedly failed according to all plans. For hundreds of years, we have not changed corruption or the way the government works. I doubted the sincere intentions and good solutions of the legislator of this law, but I believed for a moment that the promoter would give at least the right definition of the concept of concession itself. Article 3 states that the concession is the right to use natural resources which, of course, the government, the competent state authority, gives to a domestic or foreign person for a specified period of time, with the payment of compensation. And what's really a concession? For centuries, in the entire civilized world, the concession has been known to be a privilege to an individual by the authorities to do some work, which is free from the supervision of the same government. That's why the concession, ladies and gentlemen, is the favorite gift and the sweetest bite. The billmaker tried to cloud the essence of the concession with a complicated procedure, but it remains a gift from the sky, which the government will reward itself and its new associates. It is symptomatic that already in Article 3 of the Law, a concessionary is defined as a Yugoslav citizen. Now it should be said -- as a citizen of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. And even with your residence, or abroad for over a year, you haven't been able to write well in this bill. It is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to immediately figure out who this is -- various experts, NGOs experts, sponsors of ruling parties, businessmen who have currently escaped because of the current political and security situation, and now we see why -- that is why the new concessionaries for whom this law is being passed. Well, I guess the government won't pull the demagogue steam now that all Serbian citizens are potential concessionaries, when we know very well that 50% of the citizens in this country are literally starving. In accordance with Article 7. The proposal for a concession shall be submitted to the Government by the competent ministry. The government of the Republic of Serbia in the further concession procedure has a decisive word, although for a year it has no credibility to decide anything. Since it annulled Serbia's electoral will, through transactions with parliamentary mandates, the government has gone into a dark villa of highly discriminatory affairs. Such a set of people working in the government, according to Serbian Unity Party MPs, should not decide to award concessions throughout Serbia. We propose that, instead of the Government, the award of concessions should be entrusted to the newly educated concession committee. The National Assembly would educate this committee by participating MPs of all parliamentary parties and coalitions, in proportion to their strength in the National Assembly. It is surprising that only in concessions have the government decided to engage directly in the business, and in all other areas it has educated agencies. Those agencies, as we know, work for the government. Whether concessions are the fattest bite in Serbia, when the government has given itself exclusive rights and its hands only to concessions. How do you give concessions? In Article 11. The bill said that concessions are given through a public tender, which is probably the most honest, and the ugliest thing is to say is the most transparent. However, in this Article 12, there are one but not least, but "a girl's happiness is corrupting", so she says -- namely, the public tender process will be excluded if its implementation would put national defences and security at risk, which, of course, the government decides. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now attending the return of the famous ONO and DSZ! I bet the government will decide so that we're always at risk and there won't be a public tender. Because if we're not all at risk here, the government probably is. In Articles 25 and 30. The proposal for a concession law has created large holes that need to be passed by those people who want to be concessionaries, and they have no conditions to achieve it through a public tender. Therefore, in the case of a real or fictitious failure of the concession firm, the concession firm may decide to replace the concessionaires with another concessionaire, without a new public tender. Or, a concessionaire can transfer the concession to another person, again without a new public tender. At the end of this chain of transfer and concession concessions, the concessionary will not be the one to whom the concession was awarded through the tender, but the one to whom it will be tried by the government's will. In Article 28. The draft law regulates the targeting of concession fee funds, and the position of the 3rd member predicted that 5% of the funds would be allocated for the purpose of developing the infrastructure of the local self-government unit, in which the concession activity is carried out. Given what kind of work and what damage it can do for the environment to cause some concession activity, we suggest that this concession fee be at least 20%. Finally, the bill promoter made sure that the rights of future concessionaires were protected, and most likely his own rights. Thus, Article 33(2) states: "If, after the conclusion of the concession agreement, the rules on the basis of which the contract is concluded are applied to the relations set out in that contract, the rules which were in force on the date of the conclusion of the contract shall apply." In other words, the provisions of this proposal for a concession law shall be valid for all time. New elections can take place, new authorities can come and the government, the new constitution, all new laws can be passed, but the rights that the current government receives from concessionaries during this year remain for all time! These people will have the status of white bears, will be protected forever, and income will be collected for all 30 years, regardless of whether this will lead to a final collapse in Serbia. One bad government this way raises ugly monuments, like that eternal fire on the mouth that went out and I hope -- it doesn't come back. In all of this, the Assembly Club cannot accept legislative responsibility and vote in favour of such a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26433	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26434	Dear Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, this law should create clear conditions for the right to use natural wealth, investment in good in the general use and exercise of action of general interest. I believe that the proposal for a concession law must be in line with the proposal for a law on a system of environmental protection. I point to several non-compliant provisions between these laws: First, in Article 8. The proposal for a concession law, relating to the proposal for the adoption of a concession act, provides for the competent ministry to prepare a proposal for the adoption of a concession act, based on the government's position, on the intention to grant a concession and on the basis of economic, financial, social and other indicators and, note, assessment of the impact of the environmental action concession. So this proposal must include data on the impact of the environmental performance concession. However, according to Article 21. The proposal for a environmental protection system law estimates environmental impacts is only one of the documents on the basis of which permission for eco-sustainable use of natural resources and goods is obtained. The authorisation for the eco-sustainable use of natural resources and goods shall determine the conditions, scale and dynamics of the use of natural resources or goods in accordance with established balances, regulations, standards and norms for each individual natural resource or good. This authorisation shall also be issued in the event of the use of natural resources and goods through concession; that is the position of the 6th Article 20. Proposal for a law on a system of environmental protection. The question is whether a proposal can be submitted for the adoption of a concession act without prior authorisation for the eco-sustainable use of natural resources and goods, issued by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Second, Article 30. The proposal for a concession law provides for the possibility to transfer the concession to another person. However, under Article 20(4), the proposal for a law on the environmental protection system for sustainable use licences cannot be transposed to another user, which calls into question the transfer of concessions. At the same time, I would also like to open several principled dilemmas regarding the concessions for health institutions and the provision of health services, as provided for in Article 5. It's a bill of law. Under the current rules of the private health care institution, it cannot, based on services provided to citizens and based on the freedom of choice of doctors and institutions, charge from the state health insurance fund for the services provided. Is the concessionist receiving a medical concession or is he able to obtain a monopoly compared to other private health institutions in the country, to charge his services from state health insurance funds? If that's true, I'm expressing the health care concessions that produce the monopoly in this way. Finally, I propose introducing a mandatory report on the implementation of the Law on concessions to the Serbian Assembly and this proposal is the content of the amendments I will talk about when I explain the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26435	The word has been issued by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Srdja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister told us in his opening statement, in the light of this law, a widely known story, which we have heard several times from different times, that the adoption of this law will improve Serbia's economy and increase the standard of Serbian citizens. As a MP, I remembered that we heard the same argument when the Privatization Act was explained. A lot of words and no effect. And when it came to the Law on Privatisation, it was said, to improve the situation and improve the economy and to improve citizens' standards. Here, privatisation is over half finished in Serbia, none of it has anything to do with it. In order to achieve this law, it is necessary for the government to provide generally recognised conditions, thanks to its representative, thanks to the congregation's majority in the role of promoters and members of the government, particularly political stability, economic security, and, most importantly, to the minister, legal or legal security. Why? Because the minister, on several occasions, said the crown of this bill was a contract. The basis for the contract, for the crown or peak of the reformist government's achievement, is legal or legal security. You see, gentlemen, that's the legal or legal certainty for future concessionaries, when they say, a contract with a concessionary can break up the moment of knowledge, conclusion or otherwise realizes that the environment is in danger. We're passing a law that has a key point in the human environment protection treaty, and we haven't passed that law yet. This law has not yet been discussed by this congregation. Then how is a concessionist going to get into such an adventure and say, okay, I'm going to sign a concession contract, not a sign of a law on the protection of the human environment. Of course, you do not need ministers to work, it will be according to all European standards approved at all European Community forums. It's common places, it's famous. It could get someone out of another resistor. You don't have to talk. So the potential concessionaire doesn't have any legal certainty. Let's see what kind of political security he's got. The political situation in Serbia is catastrophic. Who's to blame for this situation? The ruling coalition. As you share, as you call yourself, who you personally consider to be an opposition or not an opposition, that's your problem, that doesn't interest a potential concessionaire! He's interested in ensuring political stability. Political stability in southern Serbia -- every day you bomb us that there are riots, that there may be a new war, conflict, even the police minister further informs the public that terrorist action is possible, so he found it as an example of terrorist action that has been blown up by road asphalting machines. It's all terrorist action. Now Nebojsa Covic joins and says -- in southern Serbia there are terrorists. Someone warned him they were drug dealers. Now he's changed the record, too. What kind of picture gives, what kind of security gives a potential investor? Nothing. Who's responsible? You gentlemen! What is economic security or economic stability? This law is the product of such a situation in the economy. This law, gentlemen, according to this method of concession, is precisely the product of the so-called product. debt crisis. When does a debt crisis occur in one country? When the government or government in that country exhausts all opportunities to borrow, raise a new loan, receive financial assistance from international monetary funds or from official institutions in the international community. Then every government resorts to this law. So it's going to something that's "parole sources of funding." Why? Because it's a closed circle, gentlemen, you've calculated everything well. With the demagogy you started spreading around Serbia on October 5th, you thought you would do well to do thanks to the media. There's only one thing you've overlooked - you'll close your own circle. Why do you need this law now? Because you don't have any more sources of budget financing. The best evidence is "Gossa", "Stava", educational workers! It's only a matter of a moment, who's next in line. This law can be interpreted as the kind of an anecdote that's been going around, "what do we need tractors for when you're going to sell us land?" This is the real response of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26437	The word has a folk MP Srda Popovic, followed by Radojko Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26438	Gentlemen Members of the People, Madam Chairman, I am pleased that we are having a debate here not only about the effects of this important law that Minister Pitic spoke of, such as economic activities, living standards, not about decentralisation and not just about decentralisation which is very important, because this law lowers that responsibility for local concessions to the municipal level, but above all about what my profession is and what I'm interested in, which is what this law is about with the environmental protection system law. I'm sorry my predecessor left the O.R. There is, of course, a applicable environmental law. It was brought seven or eight years ago. It's not very modern, but it's very precise. I'd add that the control we need to talk about here can be viewed on three levels. The first level of control - the fact is that for the first time in the award of concessions, we introduce the principle of a public tender; we can know that this is a good principle, that in any of the above cases has not been carried out in an unlicensed manner, so that it can be doubted by anyone. The second important thing about control is that for the first time, thanks to the spirit of tolerance during the adoption of this law, some good amendments to the opposition, above all to the SPS, we will have congregation control over concessions. It's a very important thing, a very important liquid. But what was most said here, I'd like to try to clarify these things, is the relationship between concession laws and laws dealing with, protecting or otherwise regulating the use of natural resources. There was a talk here about the woods. I will remind you that the big problem in Serbia is the brother-in-law, i.e. digging gravel from the river and from the part of the coast. You don't solve this thing so it's written somewhere that you take special care of it. Mr. Stanulov has asked a question here. We on the Committee on Environment of the National Assembly did, of course, when the proposal for a law on concessions arrived, a parallel analysis of existing rules on concessions and environmental protection from the Proposal for a Law on a system of environmental protection, which is in the process. I have to try to explain to you that the Law on concessions is an umbrella underneath which, concerning environmental issues, comes, freely speaking, a small back specialis or in the case of the Law on the Environmental Protection System, a large back-up specialis that defines this area. Of course, Mr. Stanulov, you need permission to use natural resources. Of course, esteemed colleagues, that an environmental impact analysis is needed, and it is also required under the applicable laws. The second question is why 72% of our industry doesn't have that analysis and why we now have to do ex post impact analyses on the entire vast complexes of pharmaceuticals, petrochemicals. That's what's left of it. But I'm glad we're all here to agree that these things have to be taken care of. This is the government and most of it is very much taken care of. I am pleased that, more than ever in this term of the Assembly, the question of the environment for this speaker is raised. I will try to read to you members 29th and 30th because they were the subject of the debate of representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia and of my esteemed colleague, MP Stanulov. The question of what is this about environmental protection is defined in Article 29, "in line with environmental protection regulations". Of course, Mr Pitic could not prescribe existing regulations in Article 29, nor could he predict 169 members of the environmental protection system law, because that is not the way it is done. The other thing, very important, is the transfer of concessions. It's done with the consent of the one who gave the concession. Of course, there is no way to pass on the concession and environmental consent without the government's opinion. Whether it's gonna be the ministry, this or that, and what the ministry's gonna call itself tomorrow, it's not that important. At this point, it is foreseen that the Ministry of Protection of Natural Resources and Environment, the old Law which does not know the Institute of Previous Consensus, or previous permits, but knows the Institute - impact analysis. So these are some things that we have to take care of, and I'm very pleased to take care of this payphone, but let's get into practice. If we didn't talk a lot and throw ourselves at terms, institutes, I'm not a lawyer, we had legal controversy yesterday, I'd turn to what life is. For me, fishing is an important part of life, and believe it or not, fishing is one concession in the right way. fishing areas in Serbia are allocated as concessions. What's this about? There's a public ad, people apply, they get water to use for five years under our current Fisheries Act; it's a back-up specialis compared to the concession law, it doesn't need to be prescribed, and for the first time I have to commend our ministry and the provincial secretariat. We are a bit of a past legislative process, and I will tell you how good it is to apply this principle in practice - because this year at the allocation of fishing areas, it is practically implemented in practice and without these additional obligations provided for by the concession law: a public ad has been called for the assignment of fishing areas in Serbia and Vojvodina; 75 candidates for 19 fishing areas on the territory of Serbia; 14 different weights have been identified for these candidates. For the first time, we didn't have to go to a direct contract. Only three of these weights are defined by law - that the candidate is registered, that he has orderly financial business and that he has the capacity to do so, i.e. that he has employed fishermen, an employee biologist, which is all the things that come from one of the back specialis laws on concessions. The candidates were stabbed, the water was allocated. For the first time, Serbian fishermen, the 106,000 of them, are buying licenses before the water freezes off, means before the season begins. This is the way I hope, of course, on a much higher level, by which we will decide in this assembly also on major concessions for various facilities, health institutions, highways. There's been a lot of talk about positive and negative examples from our environment. I'm glad that people at the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad are making that analysis and that they know what happened in Hungary, Sofia. Of course you won't go to the concession if you're better at some other way of exploiting. I am a frequent fan of the only Serbian concession, not to make a great mystification, since 1997 only one concession has been awarded in Serbia, and this is a concession on Belgrade highway - Novi Sad. Since I'm a frequent passenger on the route between those two cities, it seemed in practice that someone is waiting for you, taking 40 dinars from you, a note that says "Rast" consortium. On your right side, the highway melts and probably the consortium grew, grew, grew, and then, at one point, we cut and said -- this way no more, now it's done by another principle: tender, credit. I don't want to get into that job right now, but whenever someone's holding someone up, they don't do what they said. that that money will be invested in rebuilding the highway in that order, we will be able to check whether the law is good, whether the concession is a good way or maybe there is another way. It was important here by several speakers, I am well aware, I have spoken to people from the European Agency for Reconstruction and I would like to commend my colleagues from Belgrade for the attitude towards "Belgrade Waterway". The Sofia water pipeline is probably the worst example of the region's concession at the moment and the subject of major public controversy in neighbouring Bulgaria. Namely, since the concession has run out of control, the citizens of Sofia are currently paying an extremely high price for water due to concessionaires' attitudes. On the other hand, as you know, in the Belgrade plumbing, we first went on investment loans, rescheduled the primary water network in a large part of the city, because we had 50% of the losses. In three separate series of negotiations with various foreign partners, we came up with an ideal variant, and she says Belgrade has no problem with the water supply, he has a problem with 20 outflows of fecal sewers. It is supported by the "Serbian-Baviar Programme", by the European Agency for Reconstruction and we will choose another model in Belgrade. So it's not just a question of whether a concession like that brought good or bad somewhere in the neighborhood. The question is, are we smart people and have we learned anything from it? I think we are, that we won't have the chance to bake like we did at that only Serbian concession and that we will have the strength to make decisions wisely. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the parliamentary majority, the spirit of tolerance that prevailed in the assembly procedure during the adoption of this law. There have been a lot of discussions on this law on the Development Committee and on some other committees. There have been very good amendments, there's one I'd really like to vote for, and it comes from the opposition, an SPS amendment that provides for congregation control over the award of concessions. I think this is a good example of how we should talk in parliament in the future, not throwing ourselves at terms, not using a pay phone to make political views or conflicts, to advertise a rally, but to a quality and qualified conversation that will lead us to the best possible legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26439	The People's MP Radojko Petric has the word, followed by the MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26440	The respected presidency, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, this proposal for a concession law is not essentially an improvement in the current, valid law passed by the Socialists in May 1997. True, a more detailed list of what may be the subject of the concession is partly extended and detailed, but on the other hand, the proposal for a new law in several provisions represents a step back from the current law. I cite concrete; first, concessions under the laws adopted by the Socialists, among other things, had to contain certain elements of the importance of regulating each other's rights and obligations by concessionists and the state body, which refers to the involvement of domestic labourers, domestic equipment, domestic labour forces and others. This is now in a concession act, according to the new law of the current government, not specifically mentioned. Apparently, the new law protects the country's interest less and condescendingly pleases the foreign concessionaire. There will be no surprise to bring in workers from Africa, besides hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers in our country, if they offer to be cheaper, equipment and the rest. Second, the concession of the so-called so-called concession. The point system is a little bit regulated in this, and much clearer in the current law. I remind you that the international abbreviations B.O.T. It's a concession that means building -- using -- handing over objects. Let me get closer to explaining, say, the concession to build a B.O.T. highway. System. He applies to the concessionaire to build a section of the highway; a time limit for how long he can exploit and charge toll, then handing that section of highway to the state. Unlike the law that we are now considering and where it is mentioned only in one provision, the current Law has defined it in much more detail, and the obligations of both sides have been specified. It was specified that the contract contained: a description of the project;transfer technology; a deadline for construction and completion of certain stages of construction; a commitment to engagement; a return to domestic producers, contractors; a way of determining tariffs, which is also important to know in advance and to define. It's not regulated to the details of this proposal. In fact, it leaves the government with the possibility of acting on its own initiative. It can also be harmful to the country. This certainly does not surprise us if we bear in mind that the government has taken on itself too much of the role of regulating all economic flows in Serbia. Thirdly, in order to create as much interest as possible of concessionaires in the current Law, it was envisaged that the person who did research on mineral raw materials was later entitled to a concession for the exploitation of these raw materials under the conditions laid down by the Law and the concession contract for research. It is not clear why the government has now avoided predicting the same possibility. It is not necessary to explain to anyone that a concessionary doing research on ore will work more closely if there is a chance that they will get a concession later and exploitate that ore. In the proposal for this law, it is necessary to carry out additions in order to prescribe certain deadlines for the completion of certain actions in the concession procedure. Article 7 fails to prescribe a deadline within which the Government is obliged to notify the applicant of its position of the concession proposal. Since without the government's stance, further activities cannot be continued, there must be a deadline required by the government, otherwise the government's position could wait for months, not to say for years, without ever informing the applicant of the proposal. The same remark applies to Article 8. It is necessary to set a deadline within which the competent ministry is obliged to draw up an embodies on the intention to grant a concession and to submit it to the Government as a proposal for a concession act. So, in this case, to prescribe a deadline when the ministry has to complete the procedure. It is also necessary in Article 9, to set a deadline within which the government is required to adopt a concession act, counting on the date of receipt of the prepared proposal from the competent ministry. Objectively, the concession procedure is quite long, but that does not mean that it should last indefinitely. So the deadlines have to be set there, too. It is therefore necessary to set realistic deadlines and they must be binding on all participants involved in the concession procedure. Article 12 mentions the term "concession of great importance". There are no criteria for establishing such a concession. Let the provisions that these concessions are of great importance, which are concessions of strategic importance, of national importance, which was spoken today. It is good that the government has accepted, essentially, that such things and the Assembly are made known, whether such a strategic matter will be given consent to move forward, to grant concessions. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide that the provisions in the concession contract referred to in Article 22, which relate to the period of the concession and the conditions under which that period may be extended or the contract may be amended, comply with the concession act and the public tender notice. It must not leave room for some concessionaires to be favored or to commit various abuses by employees in the bodies participating in the award of concessions. However, in the end, I must conclude that it is positive that you, Mr. Minister, as well as the Government, have accepted a series of these suggestions that I have made on behalf of the SPS, as well as MPs of other political groups and commitments. In fact, of the ten amendments of the SPS MPs, you accepted five. So you took half. I hope that this assembly will accept some more amendments to the SPS and others, and thus contribute to a better law in the interests of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26441	The People's MP Goran Ciric has the word, followed by the MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26442	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have before us a law on concessions that regulates the terms, manner and procedure of giving concessions for the use of natural resources, good in general use. I want to talk now about two basic approaches that could be heard in this room, as well as prevailing in the public of Serbia. So the question is whether we're going to approach every legislative proposal as a chance to realize one of the projects, I repeat that word "a chance," or whether we're going to see a conspiracy, a problem in every project, and look for a problem where there may be or may not be a problem. I want to praise this bill, first of all, for the long enough public presence, for the possibility that we can all get acquainted with the bill and make our remarks. The Assembly Committee has shown its willingness to accept the improvement of this law by some amendments already being accepted as a proposal from the government. So, what I'm saying is that in this law, it's a good possibility that local self-governments can be the objectors of concession contracts, because I think this really opens up the possibility of looking for the best potential of local communities, which we haven't had in the current law. I believe that the key task or key problem of all of us living in Serbia, in our cities, is to look for these potentials; because one law will not give effect unless we apply it properly, unless we see a chance to awaken these local potentials and raise the economic level of local communities. I'm going to give some examples just on this subject, since there's a story in public, speculation about it, that they're interested in selling the natural wealth of Lake Vlassin and the environment. There are rumors that someone is interested and that someone here is negotiating the sale of Vlassin Lake and taking hundreds of sources of drinking water. I agree, drinking water will be the main resource of the 21st century, a very important resource. But if that's even possible, that shows this bill, because the way natural wealth will be used is just defined by this law. There's always one side of the argument -- someone wants to sell natural resources, state, country, lakes and rivers. On the other hand, are we considering whether it's a national interest to raise and put into operation these natural resources? We've all taught schools and in our textbooks we've raised, the first view, that our country is rich in natural wealth, and then -- when you remember those first sentences and compare how we now live in this country, because we haven't managed to put these natural resources into our function -- you see that we simply have to talk about the national interest: in which way we put them in the function of the real life of every single citizen, local economic development and better life of each of us individually. Here's an example right on Vlasina, which I started talking about. In 1963, you had 20,000 inhabitants in that municipality. There now live 3,000 inhabitants. Let's ask ourselves -- what would happen to Vlasin, those people and the national interest in that border area of Serbia if we had the Vlasino function in the right way, that we had all these natural potentials put into operation in the right way? Would we have had that population outflow from those border areas? Would we have a population drain from the area where we see a chance again? I'm talking about southeastern Serbia, let's say Babin Zub, and the whole environment of the Zascar, the bookkeeping, the pyrotic, the shrewd municipalities. So, put the whole end into operation by investing in infrastructure. It is necessary to invest today in infrastructure, in tourist centres, in a way that ensures water supply and this important resource of the 21st century is important not only for us, but for Europe and the whole world. How do you find these options now? So this law really opens up possibilities and opens topics. In it I see, and I will repeat, the first quality that local communities are involved in realising, proposing and opening concession agreements and topics, what can affect local and economic development. Another topic - the past law has delivered its results, since 1997 a single concession contract has been signed, so we need a new law. I believe he will open up new opportunities with political change and opening up in our country, as well as with the activity of the most interested in launching concession contracts at the bar. These are the people who live in local communities, in cities and municipalities. I think this law opens up as a possibility. The third important thing - to adopt this law today, and this session and the adoption of this law to see as an opportunity to promote the law. We should invite people to think in such a way that they have the opportunity to create new jobs and new jobs, to use these natural resources, although unfortunately we are talking about them as potentials, as reality that needs to improve the quality of life and the whole state, but also each of us individually. So I'm going to vote for this law just for these three biggest reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26443	National MP Milutin Svedovic does not use his right to debate because he is an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group; the word has a National MP Milos Lukic, followed by the MP Natasa Jovanovic; unless she is present in the hall, MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26444	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, is ahead of us with a proposal for a concession law, which has been given an explanation in a single sentence, which says that the reason for the adoption of this law is to create clear and modern conditions for investing in good in the general use and activity of general interest, and in particular investment in public infrastructure, in order to improve the efficiency of public services, improve the quality of services and their availability to every citizen. We Soviet MPs believe that, when it comes to such a significant law, we should still be able to be justified by a more detailed explanation, especially for the reason it is contained, not to bid whether 80% or 90%, identical to the previous law. In any case, it is difficult to find an excuse first of all for an emergency procedure, and the reason why this law should actually be passed should actually be sought where the differences between the previous and this law are. The differences are as follows: now, according to the new bill, we do not have a concession agency, and what was previously the case. The agencies had an obligation to provide professional assistance, then to submit a report to the government and to draft proposals, to run a concession register and another very important role, to promote the interests of the Republic of Serbia in this area. We believe that if, as the law now provides, the ministries do this abstractly, it can hardly be a serious job, given the fact that all ministries are busy with other jobs. The subject matter of the concession is somewhat closer set and several items are listed. However, it does not cover agricultural land which is one of the significant resources. The question is, why didn't it happen? I think the minister is obliged to answer this question, given the importance of agricultural land as an important natural resource in our country. As for the way concessions are given -- now we have a tender, and before that was auction or auction. The introduction of the tender itself could be justified when it comes to strategic concessions, concessions of great interest for the state, as well as concessions that not everyone can have. However, there are concessions that are much simpler and could be the subject of auctions; there is recently mentioned gravel, then the exploitation of certain minerals, etc.; in this business there is little great wisdom. Only the opening of a tender leads to certain doubts, since the tender is a more discreet form of concession giving. As for deadlines - (Articles 16, 17, 18 and 21.) We in the Soviet Union feel that they should be somewhat shorter, since when the tender election process is over, it is unnecessary now for these deadlines to be longer. We cut those deadlines with our amendments. The point is, there's something else. The negotiating committee is appointed by the Government. This is what is also essential and what distinguishes this law from the previous one. In any case, it's another proof that the government wants to take, practically, power over all the good in this country. The question of replacing concessionaires is contrary to the principle given at the very beginning of the bill - free competition. If we have more participants for one concession, then one gives up for a certain reason, this says in the case of liquidation, etc., it means that the bankers who follow that company can bring the other. We think we should go to another auction or get it from the next auction participant. As for channelling funds for local self-government, we think that the percentage should be slightly higher, because even when it comes to concessions, local self-government suffers the most. We have a lot of examples like that. It is commendable that local self-government can be itself a proponent of concessions, but we have examples where locals suffer the great consequences of the use of certain natural goods, and of that there is little permeability. There's an important question, and that's what's going on with the existing sales contracts, so let's start with the highest-ranking medals. We did not sell only machines and devices during that privatisation, and surrounding hills containing laporac were sold, which is a natural wealth that is also not inexhaustible. So whoever bought the cements is already a concessionist at a small door. Also, the unsettled fate of many people who lost their jobs on that occasion, as is the case in Paracino. As for the rest, protecting natural resources is a strategic issue for this country. The issue has been raised several times by the Soviet Union, especially by the Privatisation Committee. It is then said that a concession law is expected to regulate this matter in the right way and protect the country's natural resources from non-domestic availability. I haven't been able to find that protection in this text of the law. A serious consideration should be given to the relationship between concession and privatisation, as the privatisation process has already taken place and covers many actions that have the character of concessions. Also, we need a serious bar to explain, if not through a written document, the relationship between concession and foreign investment, which is also very interesting. Because when it comes to concessions, most people mean that foreign investors should come to this country to invest huge funds, but also to bring something better, which the minister was talking about, to hire people, to live better, etc. So maybe these relationships should be explained more precisely, because this matter is very interesting and subject to various stories. As far as concessions are concerned, it is certain that concessions to be invested by the party require a stable and serious state, and we are responsible for the seriousness and stability of the state in this Parliament, as well as for the ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26445	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26446	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the honourable ministers, on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled at the request of a group of 109 MPs, is a law on concessions, and as a reason for its adoption, states the creation of clear and modern conditions for investing in goods in general use and activity of general interest, and in particular in public infrastructure, to improve the efficiency of public services, improve the quality of services and their availability to every citizen. The entry into force of this law will cease to apply in 1997, although they are similar if they look at each other, and even better, because there are even more increased government powers here, it decides everything, and the objects of the concession can be built by self-sufficient citizens. Under this government, no serious problem in the state and society is solved: the economy does not work, poverty, uncertainty and unemployment are today the biggest problems; corruption and crime are on the rise, people's safety, property, social separation is on the rise. This law should regulate the conditions, manner and procedure of granting concessions for the use of natural resources, good in the general application for which the law provides that they are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia and for the exercise of the general interest. In the basic provisions, members of this law regulate certain basic principles, although they should better determine how and under what conditions they would be given and how they would be used, above all, natural wealth and good in the general use of where the owner of the state is. The law regulates that concessions can be given for 30 years. However, time should not be included in this time-limit for preparatory actions, for the construction of an facility, i.e. for the start of a concession of activity, and this time should be regulated by a contract. The proposal to grant concessions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia shall be submitted by the competent ministry or the assembly of the unit of local self-government, whose territory is subject to concession, as well as by an interested person, to submit an initiative; it shall inform the applicant of its position on the proposal, which is good, but that should certainly be defined - within what time. It would be appropriate for it to be between six or six months, as it is time for the government to examine the proposal and take a position on the most complex concessions of great importance. It should also be added in Article 8 that, no later than six months after the Government’s decision on the intention to grant a concession, it constitutes a detailed elaborate, i.e. a proposal for the adoption of a concession act and delivery to the Government. Because without prescribing a certain deadline, room for manipulation and irresponsible access to law enforcement is left. The law regulates that concessions act by the government, once again without a certain deadline, which should be amended, to be within three months of the day of the prepared proposal by the competent ministry. The concession acts for roads, railways, airports, ports, telecommunications, pipelines, gas pipelines, energy facilities and others, according to the Socialists, should bring the National Assembly on a proposal from the government, as it is of exceptional importance to all citizens of Serbia. And that should be decided by the representatives of the citizens, which is appropriate to the constitutional powers of both the government and the National Assembly, competences and responsibilities in the use of goods of vital national interest. Public tender ads should also be published in a domestic list, in addition to the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", and in the case of example. "something of great importance", which should certainly be determined by the government, to be in an international list. In the tender committee, it would be good for the National Assembly to appoint a member, too, because there is no need for transparency here either. In Article 20, the possibility should be deleted if only one participant meeting the conditions and criteria appears in a public tender, the ministry shall propose to the government, based on the negotiations conducted with the participant, that the public tender participant be awarded a concession. That's when the public tender needs to be repeated. In Article 22, point 211), the text should be corrected in order to avoid certain benefits to individual participants in the tender, and excluded from the possible abuse of the negotiating commission, while Article 23 should regulate that in the event of concessions of particular importance to the State, of vital and national interest, the concession contract is concluded by the Government with the previous consent of the National Assembly. The funds achieved from the concession fee are the income of the Republic and the question is whether 5% is enough to develop local community infrastructure where concession activity is carried out! But it must be defined that the funds achieved in this way are used to finance the development of these very areas, not to be spent on something else. It is also necessary to strengthen the protection of concessionaires' rights and to ensure that researchers are entitled to a concession for the exploitation of these raw materials. The concessionion relationship should also be interrupted if the concessionist, contrary to the concession agreement, fails to carry out his financial commitment to the Republic of Serbia twice, because in this case the concession is pointless and represents an irresponsible exploitation of certain national wealth. It is good that in order to ensure legal and economic security, the importance of all the provisions laid down in the contracts concluded under the earlier applicable rules is guaranteed, and it is possible for Contracting Parties to agree on certain issues in accordance with this new law. But there's no need to and the Priory leaves the possibility of an absolute retention of the earlier provisions of the contract, if that's only more favourable for the concessionary. The question arises - why is he the only one given the advantage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26447	The People's Messenger Radomir Naumov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, it is the second day that a debate is being held here on the proposal for a law on concessions offered by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think there is unity in understanding the importance of concessions for Serbia as a country in transition, which has a number of advantages for foreign investors, a good geographical position, undeniable natural wealth, a qualified and cheap workforce, lower cost of life than in other countries. Concessions are a developmental opportunity for us, but also a necessary evil. Objectively, the odds are where we don't have developmental opportunities, for example. Because of technological disadvantages, but where we have opportunities, and knowledge and technology, and we have no resources, concessions are necessarily evil. And here, after two years of announcement, this house discusses one, on the scale of the non-largest, bill, which, according to the Proposer, should create clear, modern conditions of investment in good in general use and action of general interest, and especially in public infrastructure. Before I refer to the bill itself, allow me a few remarks: first, the law that we are talking about today should replace the now applicable Law on concessions of 1997; in the second half of 2001, Mr. Minister's legal adviser, Ilija Dražić says, and "Political" translates, that this is still a valid Law and is not bad; it should only be updated, it should be specified certain provisions, simplify the procedure and of course (inescapable addition) introduce more transparency in the process itself. He also says, "After months of work, in co-operation with German experts, as well as consultations with all ministries, the text of amendments to the law on concessions and offered to the Serbian government has been prepared." It has been a year since then, and the government sent the new concession law to the Assembly in September 2002. So it's not about the changes anymore. This was done two months after the DSS government in the shadows gave way to its proposal for a concession law. Mr Pitic's legal adviser, Nenad Ilic, told the daily newspaper on October 8th 2002 -- the essence of the law remained the same, the law was improved, giving more protection to the concessionaire, etc. Then another five or six months passed, the assembly is now considering the bill made up by the government. In conclusion, gentlemen, is there a new bill in front of us, as the minister said in the introduction, or is it actually a law on amendments and additions to the 1997 law, as its advisers pointed out on various occasions. Why did it take this long to wait for this legal project? I think this is another one in a series of examples that the government doesn't have a consistent work plan, as the ministries in its operation disagree, that the government doesn't have a timing of the bill. If this is not true, the following impression could be gained: Serbia in Bor and Majdanpek has grounded itself in Bor and Majdanpek, the strike threatens, one of the strikers' demands is - to bring an urgent and law on concessions and governments, all of a sudden, to activate this proposal in the Assembly, which has been standing here for so long. But I'm going back to concessions. Mr Pitic's statement in "Blica" since 11 October 2002, and here a little slurry confirms that while foreigners are interested in concessions, especially in the area of infrastructure, no concession has been awarded in the past two years, practically since 1997, implying that this is likely to be a good part of the result of the applicable law. Well, of course, and that we have the best foreign investment laws, concessions, B.O.T. arrangements will make it difficult for a foreign investor to invest capital in perspective activities such as energy plants, the exploitation of energy sources and reserves, small underground mines, but in a country where there is no legal certainty, there is no president, parliament is turning into a market. On the other hand, it is risky to invest in a country where even the most necessary reforms in the energy sector, which would allow the liberalisation of energy markets, and changes in the energy sector, such as new legislation, organisation and restructuring of energy companies, create conditions for the energy market, do not happen spontaneously. These are the most complex jobs in front of the Serbian state, given the necessary knowledge, experience, duration and financial resources. But here, gentlemen, let some interested stranger appear with a desire to complete the construction of the thermal power plant here several times - the Colubary B heat plant, which belongs to it. How will the government enter the concession relationship with this foreign investor if it has not yet produced basic documents, such as the country's energy policy, the energy development strategy and electricity within it? We didn't access the Lisbon Energy Charter. We don't have harmonised laws on energy, mining, geological research, etc. How the government will decide to grant concessions under B.O.T. under these conditions. Arrangements for the thermopower plant - the Colubary B heat plant? Hardly! And $400 million is waiting to be buried in the grass of the dark plains. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, as you know, at this point, there is another proposal for a concession law in the Serbian Parliament, which has been made by the government in the shadow of the Democratic Party of Serbia. The law was presented to the public on 27 June 2002. The law was not then sent to the Serbian Parliament since it was time, remember, the violent exorcism of DSS MPs from the Assembly by the famous engineering of the presidency of the rest of the DOS. The proposal for the concession law was officially submitted by the DSS parliamentary group on 4 February, with a proposal to consider at the first next session. And when the Serbian government two days later, so on February 6th, pulled out of the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session to consider its law, although without any explanation, I hoped that it had seen that the proposed DSS law was better, more comprehensive and modern, and would provide an opportunity for this assembly to declare this better, more comprehensive and more modern law. But alas, this was just a fantasy in the desert that slowly spreads through Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the DSS believes that its law on concessions is more in the spirit of pronounced economic and social change. It also stresses in the area of concessions the need for decentralisation in Serbia. Mra Svetovic and Trajkovic have shown convincingly so far the differences between our law and the law on concessions that can hardly be corrected by amendments. Let me, in short, lapidary, state the important differences. There are therefore differences: in the case of concession; the conditions; the jurisdiction and the concession procedure; in principle the distribution of concession fees to others. In the case of concessions, our law does not state the taxing potential for the subject matter of the concession, but defines a comprehensive object of concession on natural wealth, good in general use and activity of general interest. The conditions are strictly defined in order to enter the concession at all, and in particular it is stated that no one can gain a concession, either foreign or domestic. The explanation is given. Competences for the award of concessions; the DSS considers that the jurisdiction to grant concessions should depend on the type of concession. Thus, the concession on natural resources, good in general use and the Korensponding gives the Republic, while autonomous provinces and units of local self-government provide concessions of general interest in their jurisdiction. We suggest that an autonomous province does not give concessions to natural well-being, because it is good for the Republic of Serbia Thank you for throwing me away. [[Throwing it out of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26449	Don't thank me, I didn't throw it to you, I respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26450	For example, an autonomous province, a city or municipality may grant concessions from public undertakings established for municipal activities. When one brake is given to multiple objects, the concerts are not the same. The competent authority shall then be deployed in principle: if the concentrates of the Republic and the Autonomous Province are the jurisdiction of the Republic; if the concessions are an autonomous province and a city, that is, the municipality is autonomous province. The terms of the concession; that's what you've heard, we predict that the local self-government unit gives a concession for the longest ten years. The concession procedure has already been discussed. Here, of course, there is a difference compared to the proposed law because of the different powers of concession. However, the complexity of concession issues, a multitude of professional and administrative jobs that precedes the conclusion of the concession contract, the need to monitor compliance with the obligations of the contract and others, require the creation of a special organisation, a concession agency. The agency should prepare documents to determine the subject-matter of the concession, propose concession acts, provide professional assistance in drawing up a concession contract, monitor the concession relationship and keep a register of all concession contracts in the country. These actions, according to the proposed law, are practically based on the ministries, which is certainly a more unfavourable variant than concessions. The system of distribution of concession fees - here is left with more flexibility in this business I'm confused because Mrs Milka won't throw it away. [[Throwing it out of the bench.]] (Glass: Milka is not in the O.R. That's why I'm confused. If the concession is carried out in the territory of an autonomous province, five percent of the fee here according to the bill is fixed, while with us it can be the subject of a contract, i.e. a concession document etc. Since I see that the attention is strong, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26451	Since we finished work in the afternoon a few minutes ago, we start the afternoon section at 15.00 hours. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic will have the word, followed by MP Milos Nesovic. [[After break - 15.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of today's session in the afternoon in the order of the Members of the People's Parliament according to the application for a word in the principle debate on the proposal for a concession law; in order to be able to determine whether we have conditions for work please insert your cards into the identification units and determine the quorum. I find that we have a quorum for work and we move on to a follow-up debate, in principle; the word is by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26453	Ladies and gentlemen, I would rather call this law a "final" of all that was done by the government of the Republic of Serbia on the economic and economic scene in the past two years. It was written in favour of DOS party sponsors, who financed these parties 10 years until their arrival in power; and through donations they also funded DOS to ensure public spending and calm down social unrest, thus leaving this political oligarchy in power, until all those goals have been achieved by such a political group. Now it's time to pay the price of their funding, and the price is exactly this law. In addition to the resources that are available in Serbia and which are naturally renewed, the biggest accent is this law in fact thrown into the following three areas: the Mining-Topier Basen Bor, the Elektroprivreda of Serbia and the oil industry of Serbia. This is why they came to power, and these are the concessions that they should pay for with their sponsors and their bosses. That it thus confirms only the act or inaction of the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past two years. The problems at the Mining-Toping Baseline Bor have not been solved by this government at all. Even Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic insulted the world's miners and engineers, saying they should plant peanuts. Probably that the price of those concessions would be as low as possible. When it comes to Serbia's Elektroprivreda, it is quite clear. I'd like the Minister of Energy, Cory Udovici, to explain here why electricity must be collected, to explain here why it lies that current prices are non-economic, and you constantly bomb our public with it? The price is five cents, but for electricity produced in nuclear power plants and in thermal power plants, for workers who receive a salary of four to five thousand marks, i.e. 2,500 to 3,000 euros; it is a far lower price of electricity produced by hydropower plants, and in Serbia about one third of electricity is produced by hydroelectric power plants. The goal of raising the electricity price, which you insist on announcing, is in fact that your concessionaries get as much energy as possible. The law also concerns labour that will be deployed there. I can tell you that public enterprises within the Elektroprivreda of Serbia are already making lists of technological surpluses; the government in a corrupt and perfiduous way wants to avoid paying the social programme for a technological surplus, so that most of such labour force will deploy into smaller public enterprises that will reregister; they cannot be held alone, they have to go bankrupt, and when the company goes bankrupt, workers have no right to a social programme, 100 euros for a year's work experience. These are the real reasons for the passing of one of these laws. It's pure demagogy and it tells us that the National Assembly should make decisions for such enterprises. The National Assembly as it is, with this assembly majority of things, is the extended hand of the government of Zoran Djindjic. It has been proven so far that everything the government proposes you will vote on. You have not rejected a single legal proposal and only the Government wants its individual and collective responsibility to transfer it to the National Assembly. For my God, the messengers of the people have immunity and cannot be prosecuted for what they vote for. Gentlemen, no matter what, you have proven that you can now change both the Constitution and everything alive. Don't forget that your people will change eventually. The opinion of the people will be heard and seen at the rally of the Serbian Radical Party, on Sunday 23rd in the Republic Square, starting at 1800 hours. There will certainly be not only members and supporters of the Serbian Radical Party, but all Serbian patriots.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26454	The People's Messenger Milos Nesovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Arsen Kurjački.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26455	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia today are discussing the proposal for a law on concessions, which should regulate the conditions, the way and the procedure of giving concessions to the natural treasures of the Republic of Serbia, on the general goods and activities of general interest, which are in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. I read this law in parallel with the Law on concessions still in force, published in Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia 20/97 and amended it in 22/97 and 25/97. I concluded that the existing Law and the Proposal for a Law on concessions almost 90% of cases solve this matter in the same way as giving concessions to natural resources, general goods and activity of particular interest. Wasn't it more comprehensive to amend and supplement the already existing law than to propose, or to make a whole new law on concessions? Of course, I took a good look and saw that the bill lays down principles for determining the conditions and ways to give concessions, where the equality and fairness of parties, free competition and autonomy of the will of the parties, which I think is good. I believe that concessions under the B.O.T system defined in Article 3 should have been resolved differently. B.O.T. The system implies: building - benefits - handing (door) into the property of the Republic of Serbia these goods, i.e. these facilities. I see that the bill put in place that they can be used, which means they can be given and built objects. I don't think it's good for our Republic of Serbia, and it should have gone to the pure B.O.T. system at any cost, so it's built, used and returned afterwards. Also, I think that the proposer should have defined certain natural resources, certain general goods, what is thought to be found in the law and promoted in such a way as to find out about legal and physical persons, domestic and foreign, what they want to ask for in terms of concessions. The second question, for certain facilities, was to be foreseen that the concession decision was given by the Serbian Republic Assembly. These are facilities of international and special strategic importance for Serbia. I think that's where we've given certain amendments to the SPS. That is good, regardless of what some debaters believe is not to involve the congregation in this. When it comes to the country's policy and strategy, specifically when it comes to concessions, I think the decision should also be taken by the highest legislative authority, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, we will be able to better inform the public and thus help the Government of the Republic of Serbia make it easier to come to the right solution. It's not good in this law, in Article 4. Proposals, a regulated question of conditions for concessions. In the bill of law, it is a very ghastly thing to say that the concession can be given on basis of a basis, concession act and a tender. I think the conditions for giving a concession are better worked out in the current Law, which says it is necessary to ensure the rational use of natural wealth or good in general use, technical and technological improvement, protection and improvement of the environment, and that general goods managed by public enterprises, which are founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which are not in a position to do so, come under concession. In Article 5. The proposals on concessions extend the subject matter of concessions, so health institutions are given, but not only to build, but also to reconstruct, revitalise or refurbish and use them; there are recreational facilities and tourist infrastructure. However, I am particularly interested in medical institutions. In the Republic of Serbia, many health institutions have been made with local self-dependence. I will give you an example: the municipalities of Kraljevo, Vrnjaka Banja and Raška - 22 years of economy and the citizens of the Kings singled out their self-esteem to create a surgical hospital, wishing to have better quality and cheaper medical services. I think such objects should be excluded from concessions to define concessionaries. I will only remind you that on January 19th in the Republic of Slovenia there was a referendum where citizens asked for funds to be recovered to all citizens who invested in the construction of telecommunications facilities under a joint building contract and then transferred those funds. That will probably also apply to the electricity industry. The decision was made to return those funds to those citizens. I think that also health facilities made through donor funds, where no money went from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but were given by private enterprises, construction operations worked without any compensation, should be excluded from concessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26456	The People's Messenger Arsen the Qur'an has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26457	Dear Mr. Minister, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in the context of the Government, the reason for the adoption of this law states that conditions for investing in good in the general use and activity of general interest are being created. The question arises - did it take two years for the government to remember that conditions should be created for investment through concessions? It's obviously something else entirely. Despite the sale of all our economic resources, which is on stage, there are no more serious foreign investments in Serbia! They are not there because there is no political stability and no real transformation of the system has been carried out; they are not because property has not yet been recovered by the communist regime, but they are being offered for sale. Under such conditions, no serious foreign investor will invest, quite understandable. So, when there's no sale -- let's try concessions, but of course there are the necessary preconditions as well as privatisation. First of all, it takes a clear and precise law. You can't say that about this proposed law. I'll draw attention to just some characteristic drawbacks, there's a lot of them, and they give us the right not to accept what we're offering. The section - "Concession Act Content", Article 10(6), speaks about the conditions and the way in which the concession works. It is missed and must be assumed that concessions must be carried out in accordance with technical standards with the ISO quality system. Why am I saying this? Because it must be clearly specified, as foreign investors can be expected to try to avoid applying these standards, which they are obliged to do, all because of cost increases, and thus also lower profits. Let's think of the Beocian cement factory and the famous tire burning to save energy. In order for our contractors not to come into various "tortures" when creating a contract, it is better to make it clear in the law immediately. The "Tender Commission" section, Article 14 paragraph 5, says, "The commission cannot be appointed persons who have any business relations with any of the participants in the public tender." At first glance, quite all right. However, when we analyze a little deeper, the question arises: how will we determine who has it, who and what "business relations" will be? There's nothing exactly said. What kind of business relationship are these, what does that mean? What happens when "business relationship" is subsequently determined? Will these tender commissions then be annulled? What about the offenders, how will they be punished? There's nothing to say about that. Obviously, there are a lot of misunderstandings here, which give broad possibilities to abuse and eliminate unwanted persons from the tender commission. Article 28. - The section "Guarding the funds of the concession fee", the jargon says "whose money" -- predicts that the funds from the concession fee are paid to local self-government and the province in the amount, I would say embarrassing, 5%. After this, it is clear to the young children that since the declared and promised pre-election decentralisation of Serbia, especially in the financial sphere, there is no meaning. This government declares everything accepted, but when the money is in question there is no dilemma, everything has to be in her bag, and it will be distributed as the boss says. I wonder what happened to the famous pre-election sentence-- wallet autonomy? It's kind of quick to forget everything when it comes to power. If you look at the amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly adopted by the government in that original version, which she refused, it's clear what I'm saying. It may be a greater influence of the Vojvodina in implementing concessions, but a larger share of the money -- it can't. Apparently, Nasha Canak will have to threaten by failing to pass the bill in order for the province to have a larger share in concessions. But why threaten local self-governments across Serbia to reach more resources belonging to them? It is clear that such a solution is not good, and that the assets must be determined according to the importance of the things given in the concession for the state, region or local self-government. It's the only right solution. There is no section in this bill - criminal provisions. Every law, in order for it to be real, must also have criminal provisions. Does this mean that someone is already in advance amnesty from acts that can be devastating and harmful to this people? Natural wealth, national goods, and everything generations and generations have created, is too valuable for this government to play with. In view of the above, and much more so, the DSS offered this assembly its proposal for a concession law. We haven't let him go to congregation procedure yet, among other things, and for the reason we expected the president of the National Assembly to put on the agenda once before, a law on denationalisation, which we gave to the Assembly long ago. We expected the government to understand, after the debacle of the privatisation process, that it was "absorbed and cursed" and that it could neither be sold to others nor given in concessions. But I guess now it's clear to all of us that this government, for its term of office, has no intention of returning the kidnapped property, because they need it for sale or long-term leases, in order to extend that power a little longer, by the system "after the flood". When the government offered this concession law, we were forced to release our law in the process, too, to regulate this process as much as possible. Unfortunately, like all the legal projects that the DSS has submitted so far in the assembly procedure, this one has not been put to debate, and we find that very bad. If the government did not want our law to be discussed and adopted, because it would be clear to all of us that the government in the shadow of the DSS has been working much more professionally and more responsibly on the long-term interests of this country and of our descendants, not on the current party and personal interests or interests of foreign investors, it could at least have so much responsibility for its citizens, so that this government law is withdrawn, in line with DSS law, to take all those good solutions and put them into consideration in the Assembly. That would certainly be stately wise and responsible. Unfortunately, however, there is nothing to do, forcing this vague and indeterminate law, which leaves behind, and I have listed several examples, great opportunities for negligence and abuse. We at the DSS believe that this proposed law cannot be corrected by amendments, and therefore, as you have noticed, we have not submitted amendments, which unfortunately means that we, as responsible and moral people, cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26458	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and after that, MP Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in yesterday's unknowing exposé, Minister Pitic was unable to convince us, representatives of the SRS as well as the entire Serbian public, of the newly declared principles of public competition allegedly embedded in this proposal for a law on concessions, because the bitter experience that with you, I think of you and the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Zoran Djindjic, has the entire population of Serbia, and especially the businessmen, points to something else. It also points to the inability to improve our economy, its development, to encourage the production and employment of people by the principles of market economy. It has been shown in practice that there has been something quite the opposite, that the standard of the population has been brought to the worst extent possible and that many people, tens of thousands, and you plan to leave hundreds of thousands more of them out of work, without being able to feed their children and train them. Therefore, everything that has happened and the arrangement of these conditions, the way and the concession procedure, clearly speaks of the same things happening in the next period. What am I saying that for? In addition to this, the claim is that everything that you've done, dissuading our factories, selling them to the budget, starts with cementers, and then via sugarcanns, which are the biggest criminals in the country, close to the authorities, sold for only three euros. Reduction of the so-called accounting values show the latest sale of Sugarna in Crvenkovski, whose estimate was 21m euros, and sold for only threem euros. The most scandalous thing is certainly what happened, which is only one in a series of criminal charges filed against Minister of Agriculture Dragan Veselinov, at the Odzaks Hunting Association, in a reserve of over 600 hectares of land, when Minister Vesenov showed that after the adoption of this law on concessions to act; just as you acted when he was against the law - which is why I am convinced, as all his helpers in this dirty work will answer - he has destroyed hundreds of thousands of rare birds in Odjac. The Odzac hunting association in the Lalin meadows, called that area in the Western-Bačka district, had a contract and was approved by the competent ministry for 10 years, and previously invested hundreds of thousands of euros to grow these rare bird species, as well as large game. Minister Vesenov, in order to provide his and his associates with a fabulous profit, violated such a contract by the Odzaki Hunting Association, grabbed a huge amount of money, probably for himself and for all those who helped him, unilaterally terminated the contract and exported it to an Italian firm in a very short time. There they are now, which can also be dealt with by a concession expert who is not here today, who is at the head or is an adviser to the Ecology Committee, Mr Popovic, just some sort of crow or something that is no longer worth anything. As for the mining-topic base Bor, you said to the hungry miners 15 days ago, promoting the law on concessions, (and 10 thousand of them sought their rights, just as the workers of the flag, which you daily corrupt through your coalition partners and you yourself from DOS) that they would gain the opportunity to work, to make and receive salaries when the concession law was passed. They won't be able to work at all then, but at that time they will continue to rob even more and allow those who are close to the top of the government to become enormously rich in labor torture, in the torment of miners and all those who today cannot provide their rights. What particularly stings the eyes are individual members of the law. And today, the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has taxed on what they are all, which technically, essentially, misses. The truth is, we have not submitted amendments to this bill because we would completely change it, the whole concession law. Today, however, Minister Pitic, speaking of allegedly controlling and dragging the legislative authority into the tender commission, said it was embedded in a legal project. Well, it didn't, Minister, because you later did it with an amendment that, for who knows which time, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad submitted. Not specifically this committee, but in this assembly it has become a practice for various committees to submit, at the last moment, amendments to proposed legislative projects. In particular, it is a scandalous fact that in Article 10, in the context of a concession act, you say that, if the object of the concession is reconstruction, adaptation or resolution of existing objects, the concession act also contains an assessment of the amount of investment determined in relation to the value of the facility whose reconstruction, adaptation or recovery is the subject of the concession. You just didn't explain who was going to do that assessment, because all economic operators have not a bitter experience, but a scandal about what the Privatisation Agency has been doing with Prime Minister Aleksandra Vlahovic over the past two years. This is shown by examples of the sale of state property: a three-euro sugarcan, a cement store; and you continued on - an example of the so-called ". The reconstruction of the highway by one of the leading criminals, Ljubisha Buhe-Khumet. These are just some in a series of examples of what you've been doing to single-handedly rob Serbian citizens and thus exercise power. It's impossible for anyone to believe that you care about the country's defences and security. You are obedient to America and the Western powers, you would have given them everything on the plate. You adopted what happened yesterday. The Committee for the Making of Amendments to the Constitution, and you included self-proclaimed representatives of Serbs, means those who have recognised the occupation, as well as representatives of the Supreme and Constitutional Court of Serbia. It is clear to everyone today in Serbia that the most famous concessionary is William Montgomery, and in order to reduce your suffering, Mr Pitić, I must express my firm confidence to all representatives of the SRS, and I believe the vast majority of the people, that by the end of the year you will not be able to spend 35 million dinars in the budget for your travels in the white world, because soon you will be left without a ministerial chair. This will make you sicker, even from what it will be, whether or not that monster, Carla del Ponte, is going to beat your pucks, and that you are making public these days, so that you will get some help if you cooperate more closely. Because on Sunday, February 23rd, citizens will come to a large number, I am sure, in the Square of the Republic, to greet the largest Serb, the greatest Serbian patriot, the leader not only of us Serbian radicals, but of Serbs from all Serbian countries, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who travels to The Hague on Monday and who will eventually tear up your pet Carla del Ponte and the entire Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26460	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Tomovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26461	Dear Mrs. Comic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill discussed in this House may not be the most important one, but it is certainly the most prominent of all the laws we have discussed so far. The evidence for my claim is the fact that this law determines which of the country's resources, especially strategic ones, should be subject to concessions and by what rules that concession should be awarded to someone. This was the reason why we Socialists - despite the belief that the law was passed on to our proposal was quite correct and that perhaps before we should have discussed the amendments and additions to this law, rather than completely changing it - because of the known decision-making mechanism in this Parliament, not to speak further, concluded that we must essentially engage in a debate on the proposal of this law and that, of course, in one procedure that I must say that it took as long as the best solutions were needed, we give our proposals and our reflection on how this proposal should be corrected. In that sense, we have translated it into about ten amendments. The backbone of our intervention was an undertaking to limit the government's decision to those concessions that are mathematical, to say, less than or equal to some amount or which are of the greatest strategic importance, such as water springs, oil springs, etc. So, we wanted to give these prerogatives to the Assembly, that it would decide on concessions of particular strategic importance. And of course, not only that, but we wanted (and that was the essence of our pledge) that the Government periodically submitted reports on the concession procedure to this assembly and not only on what the Assembly said that it could also be the subject of the concession, but also on everything else that was given to the Government as discretionary right. In that sense, we have submitted a dozen amendments. Of course, I won't talk about all these amendments. I'll just mention some of those where we've been having a discussion with government representatives and on various committees, particularly on the Committee on Economic Development. This applies first of all to Article 6 because this article says it will be decided, etc. Our pledge was to make a small mechanism in that decision, I'd say we make a matrix decision and say -- the weight is that and that, the risk weight is that, the weight for this, the weight for that; because wherever it's subjectively decided, it can be that and so on. I guess if it's not accepted now, this can be adopted later by some sublegal act or regulation on the work of a tender commission; to make a decision matrix where it's very simple to say -- the risk factor that, weighting that, and when it's all summed up, things are very exact, it's done. I hope that'll make it right in that sense. But the essence of our disagreement, and where we still have to agree, is that we insisted (let me figuratively express myself, because that's how I talked to the Committee), when we're already putting a little bell on the concessions that go to the local self-government and autonomous province, to put bells, but bigger, and the larger part, so let's say -- well, it's ringing for the use of money in those areas where we got them and giving concessions. So I can understand the government when it says -- you know, it's budget money, but I can't accept it. I'd like to have security : if we gave the highway, then build the highway. Because the government is going to say we need it for retirement. But, gentlemen, it can't be a manners -- I'm not good at privatisation, let's take the concession; I'm not good at this, let's take it from that. So that's why I wanted to put that big bell on. But, well, the government is a government and we understand difficulties. In short, because my other colleagues are waiting for a turn, this occasion has shown the extraordinary willingness of the minister and his team to take a proper look at our demands and I have to say that a lot of our proposals have been accepted, more than ever, and this gives me the opportunity to conclude the double: as Copernicus "still turns" or as Ilif and Petrov in the famous Golden Telet "ice is the gentlemen of the jury". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26462	The word has a National MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26463	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the proposed law, I want to mention some of the experiences that Europe certainly has. However, when you enter the Internet, it is very difficult to communicate with these experiences. First because you have the unsettled links of many governments in Europe. What you can see is that all the laws in the area of concessions are quite old, so I guess the Republic government is also. Minister Pitic, also my party, and perhaps the old 1997 Law, rely on OECD recommendations delivered to former SFRY members as a recommendation that can draw those countries from the crisis. We are talking about these foreign experiences, let's say the UK is fragmentingly showing this area, namely concessions appear in the laws of health, travel industry or telecommunications. Also, Portugal solves the question of concessions again to some specific laws in narrow areas, such as PTT traffic, and some other countries similarly address the issue. As for the length of concessions, the poorer the country is, the longer the time limit to be given to the concessionary. The poorer countries, such as the Soviet Union countries, Russia in particular, then Romania, give up to 50 years, and on the other hand Italy has a legal deadline of up to 25 years, except for up to 30 years in one route. I think we agreed here that this deadline could be up to 30 years old and it is fully in line with some European experiences. We can support in this law the existence of the principle of B.O.T. build - use - surrender. This principle is widely known, allowing new investments to be created that will then be handed over to the state or the people and should certainly be welcomed. Yesterday, the minister says the law is important for the development of economy and infrastructure, and he believes it will have an effect on citizens' living standards. He then says that the law is in line with international legislation, stresses the common interest of private and public interest; also, the minister praises his law, and says it makes it impossible for discretionary law, that there is high legal certainty. All this is nice that the minister says, however, there is no legal certainty in the state, so I wonder how we're going to do B.O.T. to give someone a route between Belgrade and Nis or the Macedonian border, and at this point we are all witnessing that even asphalt bases worth several million dollars fly into the air. So these legal certaintys are gone in this country. I don't think in this country, which is usually a hostless country, without a president, it's certainly not the right bait for these investments, and we're all... Okay, why are you throwing it at me? [[growls]] Please, Mrs. Comic, remind those of you who earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26464	All present MPs are mine, I don't share them on yours and theirs, by orders, and we are all bound to respect the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26465	So warn them.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26466	All speakers, including you, have full freedom of argument in the interpretation of the law and indeed ask all MPs to follow the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26467	We at the DSS will certainly take this opportunity to present our law. When the ministers pulled this bill, we were hoping that you might use some of our experiences and try to properly decentralised this issue of concessions. Those experiences we have from the Privatization Act, and I can tell you something about it and as a representative of a local self-government, at that moment...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26468	People's MP, I am speaking to you under Article 84(2). Rules of Procedure, and since you remind me of the application of the Rules of Procedure. By formal application of the Rules of Procedure, you should be deprived of your word because you are talking about a subject that is not on the agenda, and if you want the draft of your law to be on the agenda of the business procedure, it is up to you to collect 84 signatures of the MPs and schedule a sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly by 1 March or to propose at a regular session. So what goes for you goes for all of us. The freedom that you have, all the other MPs have. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26469	Do you know what I'm saying? Does it make sense for you to interrupt me like this? Experiences from the Privatisation Act -- when privatisation fell to the level of local self-government, where local self-government has an obligation to expand the list of potential participants in privatisation -- I think it is necessary to assess positively through this law. We're just the ones who based our bill on that decentralisation. The real decentralisation, therefore, recognises the interest of local self-government and implies the participation of the AP. The interest of local communities will certainly bring a much greater number of contracted concessions than to go to some major concessions which, due to this legal instability of our country, absolutely cannot be attracted. In the end, I ask the Republic Government - what came as a concession job in two years? The previous government has made only one contract; it is the Belgrade-Novi Sad road. Unfortunately, our government today does not have the power to be a magnet for investors, and this very law is the opportunity to realize our interest in starting the economy in this way, i.e.. That's why we need that outside money. Since Mrs. Comic resents the introduction of this DSS law, which she has in her hands, I will not talk about our law. I hope that this law will be improved very quickly by a new law, even those changes that we insist on. That will be, of course, my lords, right after the extraordinary parliamentary elections. I hope, Mrs. Comic, that there will be a real Democrats sitting here, not someone who will interfere with comments like these which are the best evidence that you and democracy have no slight ties.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26470	The word has been issued by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, followed by MP Dragan Jovanovic; a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has been available for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the way of Novi Sad - Belgrade, the subject of a concession in past times, has left a negative mark on this government because some of its actions and actions have stopped the flow and dynamics of the construction of that stock. That time he had elaborate concessions contract probably terminated according to the applicable legal standards. Today's government, headed by the government of Zoran Djindjic, has not concluded any agreements with any firm and is referring to concessions. This law may have been at the debate of this parliament before, but the DOS disagreements that culminated did not allow the passage of this law to this home. The Old Law on concessions adopted in 1997 opened the way for concessions today. We are neither as a people nor as a state today ready to accept this law nor other laws that you government gentlemen are extending as reform laws. These reform laws are so far from reform -- people in Serbia today live on the edge of economic misery. There's a lot of people on the street without a job. The government has a general dissatisfaction. It's a question of days when that dissatisfaction will be overcome so that you gentlemen who run this country today get off that pedestal. It should be possible for people and individuals in the state and society to be in prosperity, and only when a number of people who have a desire and economic power to deal with concessions are they to pass a concession law. The proposal has 45 members. Concessors deal with the exploitation of mineral resources, repair their roads, arrange the banks of rivers, build railroads, their hard work and perseverance leave well-being for society and themselves for a long period of time, not like you today to get rich by system as quickly as possible in an unusual and inhuman way. The neighbors in our environment who have passed the transition know that. Their negative experiences have reached out to us. How do you think the formulations of this law attract foreign participants when they know that everything you're doing has no legal basis, there's not even this assembly of legitimacy, we've pointed out that on many occasions, and today I'm undermining it. What do these people have to comment on, and they need to bring a huge amount of money and turn it into profit, which they have in their image democracy as an attitude? Well, we don't have it now, so this law doesn't give them any security. As for the balance of private and public rights -- the same is impossible today with this government, I have pointed out in the above view of my exposure. The choice of concessionaries should be regulated by this law so that it is all transparent, that is, as you say transparently. But that transparency and your transparency did not create an environment for this activity. Do you believe that the principle of equality and justice in the execution of concessions will be represented by democratic principles and protected by the legal norms of our country? What countries? So we also destroyed international legal norms that had their own historical flow. So how do we connect to all these standards in international law when we don't even have a state, we don't even have a status that allows it? You have the Constitutional Charter. What kind of action should be regulated by this law? We know we've listed everything that regulates this concession law, but these general actions can be manipulated, so they don't give safety to the state or concessionaries. That means what we like, that's what we're going to ask for under this law. As regards the ban on foreigners on investment and on concessions, the law has been regulated and recorded as a zone of production and transport of arms, the ban is apparent, as it will then produce imports of finished products. The tender commissions are required to prepare and complete all concessions. They are made up of members from the level of local self-government. They need to do a preliminary field check and propose a solution to a particular concession problem to the government. But we in that space have such personnel... Concessions, of these generations that work today, no one was involved, so the expert public only knows about it from literature. I don't think the minister with this problem is aware of the details. That's one big problem. People who deal with concessions have not lived in these areas for more than 60 years, and the processes of world concessionism have so advanced that this law will be difficult to accept. What member do you want to solve national parks, forests, lakes and water without breaking the laws of these areas that do not base their foundations on concessions? For example, the mining wealth is located in a national park. Dirty technology like raw materials must go along or across a national park between 10 and 15 kilometers in length - how can it be solved without pollution? So Beojinska cement factory has its digs on the southern slope of Fruska Gora. Does the Law on the Protection of Human Environment have to prevent this concession process? One of the comments of this law is the non-compliance of the wishes and ideas of the marginal parties of the DOS conglomerate, which did not establish consensus but also highlight their dissatisfaction with the amendments. Dissatisfied with the media blockade on RTS towards the Serbian Radical Party, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, respected Serbian citizens, the Serbian Radical Party is organising a major national rally to escort its president, Professor Vojislav Seselj, to The Hague in defence of Serbia. The rally will take place on Sunday, February 23rd, in Repbulika Square, at 1800 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26472	The word has been issued by MP Dragan Jovanovic, followed by MP Dragan Lazic; the time available to the Socialist Party of Serbia is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear friend Komic in a positive context, we have a material that bears a very pretentious name - the Law on concessions. Why is it a pretentious name? Because Serbia already has a concession law adopted in 1997. It was brought by experts from the Socialist Party, which was then in power with coalition partners. This material, ultimately, could bear the title - amendments and additions to the concession laws. So, in 1997, the Socialists expressed their view of the needs to give concessions, but in the function of infrastructure development, economy and country development. This distinguishes the approach of today’s government from that approach. This title is not random. Why doesn't the title bear a name - amendments and additions to the law? Because they wanted different goals to be achieved. First goal: a marketing performance. The government wants to show that it's doing something revolutionary, because since 5 October, everything has been revolutionary, very important that it hasn't been done yet. That marketing approach is there all the time. There's a famous story about a train rocking to make passengers think the train's going, but those who rock don't see that the train's headed back towards the break-in -- and the people see it well. Another reason why material does not bear the name of amending the law is the pathologically ill drive for discontinuity at all costs. Some of them talked about political discontinuity. But a well-intentioned man can't help but feel that the pathological thing has already become a story of discontinuity. You're already going to full legal continuity. You're already going to discontinuity with common sense, because there's probably going to be a law or regulation that puts your left shoe on your right foot, go through the red one, make a roof in the basement, nothing happens the way it was. It's a lot like 1945! It brought us back a lot -- we did make a discontinuity with the old Yugoslavia, we didn't keep what was good. This disease has already gone to the inside. You already have in town where I come from a proposal to change the names of 450 blocks, all of a sudden. It's amazing and becomes, in a way, sick. I'm afraid with dirty water, with mistakes, we don't start throwing kids out. The third and main reason why, according to us, this law is changed is because of the government's desire, or ruling party and ruling coalitions to retain power in every way. So that desire is already becoming so expressed that it is simply unpleasant. By passing this law, it even threatens to round up the process that the DOS is already destroying and mythology. It's famous in mythology for the story of the ruler Mergano who wanted to retain power at all costs. He was a symbol of authority at the time, so to keep his authority, he sold five sons and five daughters, so he sold and gave all his citizens evil spirits, so he eventually sold the empire to retain power. From this law, in this way written, there is a tendency to keep the government at all costs, because there is a line of continuity. In order to fill the budget, the citizens of Serbia, against the constitution, were sold to The Hague for small money, and then the Privatisation Act came, where we did not reach consensus and where DOS insisted that the money go to the budget. So, the sale to the company to fill the budget and maintain power. What we have today: The proposal for a concession law with a key point that the money from the sale goes to the budget; means that the power would be maintained at any cost; there will be a budget to be filled. That's what the Socialists can't accept. The government at any cost or budgeting must not be the reason and way to lead the government. I must say, in co-operation with this law, we have made some progress and I must commend Minister Pitic. He does a certain task, perhaps not knowing the ultimate intentions of what he was given. We had quite a solid co-operation, and it shows possible ways of reaching consensus on important issues. It's the only way we're gonna move forward. If the government stops wanting to rule at all costs, to fill the budget, we will reach a consensus on the Law on privatisation and on such and similar laws. Otherwise, the desire to rule at all costs cannot be taken away. I don't want to tell you the end of the Mergan story, you'll read it yourself, but it didn't end well. I can tell you, for those who don't have time to read, he was eventually torn between horses. Evil spirits did not respect his desire for power.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26474	The word has a People's MP Dragan Lazic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26475	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, obviously the attention is dropping, but I'll be shorter than you think. Mr. Minister, I followed you yesterday and today, and I expected you to mention Kosovo and Metohija, at least once, even though it may not be under your jurisdiction at the moment. It is true, however, that there is no law on concessions under federal legislation, but that does not mean that we cannot discuss this issue in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to concessions, related to Kosovo and Metohija, the issue of connecting to the moment of privatisation is irrevocably raised. For what? Because after UNMIK and KFOR's arrival in Kosovo and Metohija, the situation has been qualitatively changed and can now, at this point, be said that representatives of the international community are flagrantly violating Resolution 1244. In fact, believe it or not, right after KFOR arrived on June 10th, the first regulation by then High Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General, Mr Bernard Kouchner, under the number 199/1 of July 25, 1999, indicates that UNMIK has and uses all state and social property in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. The 2002-12 2002 regulation established the Kosovo Trust Agency, which also flagrantly violates Resolution 1244. It indicates that UNMIK has the right to manage property in state and social property, but not to have and permanently change the ownership structure. That's very important. We had a conversation at the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija with representatives of the Coordination Centre, where all these events in Kosovo have been pointed out and that Resolution 1244 is being violated. We are, of course, completely limited when it comes to Resolution 1244, where it is said that the international community is a subject of resolution, but nobody gives anyone the right to behave in this way. Although Mr Covic, as head of the Coordination Centre, pointed out in the Security Council at the time, a sharp protest, I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia should be constantly present and constantly point to all the facts that are happening - that it is investing in protest not only to the United Nations and the secretary of the world organisation, Mr Annan, who is one of the guarantors, but also to all other relevant institutions in Europe and the world. I don't think we can miss that right in Kosovo and Metohija. I have made it perfectly clear why I am speaking at this point about Kosovo and Metohija and should not be distracted with the mind of all the resources that our country has. We are de jure, that is, according to Resolution 1244, the holders of the entire property, because the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is mentioned, that is, now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro as a guarantee and that Kosovo and Metohija belong to that community, but de facto does not belong, because it shows the situation down there. Should I tell you about resources like the Kosovo base? It should be said on the subject, for example, in Serbia itself is the future in Kolubara. If Kolubara is 20 times smaller than the energy potential of the Kosovo base, then everything is clear to you. Only coals of the Kosovo base stock reserve amount to 9.8 billion tonnes or translated into dollars of about 200 billion dollars. It needs to be explained to someone, to see all the seriousness of this situation. Is there a need to talk about the source of the pheronical -- it's known that the plant was raised right around Glogovec and Drenica, where it was the most tense in the whole situation, all this time, where the international community was vitally interested in certain concessions, because it's known that "Pheni" in Kavadarci was already in the past and that nothing could have been done. Nothing on the subject has been done in the past regime. Even some wrong projections were made, such as, say, related to Trepca ten years ago, when a 99-year contract was signed with the Greek company Mitilinos and it is known how it went; a five-million-dollar check was waved, nothing was done, even the car tires were on fire to see something smoking on the chimneys. In this whole situation, we really need to look at the perspective of all of this. It should constantly insist on the consistent implementation of Resolution 1244, and I told you this because, let's say, Minister Vlahovic very often uses that slogan - when I say privatisation, I mean investment. Concessions are introduced to a small door in Kosovo and Metohija, because there is another slogan - when I say concession, I mean commercialisation. In what way? In Kosovo and Metohija, a concession cannot be implemented because it is, in its own way, blocked after Mr. Covic's move to the Security Council, but commercial contracts are being made for a year, with the possibility that the contract will later be extended to another year and even more. That's, say, the Cementar case in General Jankovic. It is at the very border towards Macedonia. I've had so much to tell you this time. It really surprised me in some way that you did not mention Kosovo and Metohija and all the potential opportunities. I hope you can at least answer something for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26476	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, and the next one registered for the word is Željko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26477	Ladies and gentlemen, when I received this proposal of the concession law, I first took the old concession law to see what the difference between the new bill and this old law is. To my astonishment and astonishment more than I have, which have helped me to consider this law, we have come to the conclusion that almost 80% of the provisions of one law and another are the same. Then why is a new law being passed? It's mostly because you're getting your eyes dirty to those you promised in the election campaign that you'd bring a law on denationalisation, so you're not, and now some people are complaining and will, and they don't know how to take the property back -- so some of them are adept journalists there, getting paid like they have, and they haven't finished college, hitting on the talambas by accusing one, the other and the third of them, so clouding things. So one of the motives for this bill is to distract attention from what you promised in the election campaign. The second motive for today's discussion of the new concession law, which is essentially not new, is just to liberalise the conditions for giving concessions, is that you probably promised someone abroad, so now they're looking for new concessions and for taking general goods under their concession contracts. If we analyse this, we can see that in Article 4 of the concession clause, all the three conditions of the previous 1997 law have been deleted, where it clearly states that the concession is granted on condition that the rational use of natural wealth or good in general use is ensured, technical improvement of the work that is the subject of concession and protection and improvement of the environment. So, that's about liberalising concession conditions. Furthermore, the reason for the adoption of this new law, which is not new, is only about the reduction of some foreign interests, it is about the extension of the subject-matter of the concession. As we can see, there are several new moments here: under Article 5, point 12, more construction, maintenance and use of health institutions or their reconstruction, modernisation, maintenance, use of health services etc. I wonder if the Pyrocans, who for ten years have granted themselves a contribution to the construction of a health center and hospital, are now going to be put in a situation that their hospital, built with their money, is being handed over to a foreigner who will determine ways of health care for these same Pyrocans for building the same hospital?- I'm sorry. Also, Article 5 of point 13 provides that the object of the concession can be to build sports-recreation facilities, sports courts and sports areas. At the first moment, I couldn't remember why it could be current, but before the 2000 elections, we held a "Belgrade Arena" pre-election rally. The "Belgrade Arena" was built by the state's own resources and it was functional for two years, although it then held a rally within it. In two years, maybe you didn't nail any nails into it. For what? It is likely that someone has taken an eye on the largest sports facility in the Balkans, perhaps in Europe, and is likely to receive favourable concessions for taking over the facility.- I'm sorry. (President: I warn you of an excessive amount of time. ) On the one hand, you are building new agencies, and on the other hand you are abolishing the agency that was scheduled to award concessions. It is then stated in point 12 that the concession agreement may contain a way of resolving disputes and applying the applicable law. If there is a way to protect the rights of concessionaires in Article 33, if there is an intended way to resolve disputes in Chapter VIII, it is indeed inadmissible or unnecessary to allow the provisions of the concession contract to provide for ways to determine the applicable law. If a local person appears as a concession, it is a state; if a foreign person appears as a concessionary, it is known that any dispute will end before international arbitration. I really don't think there's any need to put in a disposition provision for contractors, to negotiate a way that will be applied in the event of disputes. I have a lot to say, but for a short time and for your bad Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26478	The word has been given by MP Zeljko Tomic; there are no more declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26479	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been said quite a bit. I'd just like to draw attention to some of the things that I think are important. Symptomatic for this meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly is the appearance of Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs Mr. Pitic. In his reasoning of the law and argument, when he says why there should be no concession agency, he says concessions as a concept and subject of dispersive, i.e. complex, multilayered. Of course that's true. I would remind you that today he is not only representing his ministry, but also the very government of the Republic of Serbia. He can't, in two sentences, say that agencies in some cases were founded because it was meant to be, and that can't be the case here, because the area is dispersive. The same areas include privatisation, state administration, areas representing trade, health and other government agencies. The minister, whether on purpose or not, did not want to involve himself in the purpose of the existence of agencies. In my opinion, he still had to do it in more detail than he did, because he, I remind, is a representative of the Serbian government who, as we know, mainly rules and agencies. Such a significant area as concessions simply implies the establishment of an agency, as is the DSS in its proposal for a concession law and provided for. We have explained the complexity of concession issues; many professional and administrative jobs that precede the conclusion of concession contracts; the need to monitor compliance with the obligations of the contract and the professional assistance of the parties in the concession contract; that the practice of giving concessions is reasonably uniform; all of this first requires the creation of a new body of state administration, a new special organisation, and this is a concession agency. In the end, I want to point out another interesting fact. In particular, at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, when amendments to the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina were discussed, none of the amendment applicants found it appropriate to appear at that session and to explain amendments to the AP Vojvodina Assembly to the Committee, the Committee members and the MPs present. I'm afraid that syndrome is symptomatic when it comes to signals from the Vojvodina Assembly. Namely, the minister and his assistants were very careful and careful when commenting on these amendments. I'm afraid that this amount of respect can reveal the door even more, in my opinion, the dangerous intentions of some political structures in Vojvodina, which have been quite raped since the passing of that unfortunate and unbulful Omnibus law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26480	Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, does one of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not used this right, want the word? The word has an authorised representative of New Serbia, Mr. Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26481	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I had no intention of discussing. However, in many discussions, there has been a clean replacement of the thesis, including New Serbia and me, that is, my discussion has been attributed to political demagogy, that is to say that we are in favour of non-use of economic resources as a basic institution, i.e. an instrument of economic development and repair of the living standard of the population! That's why I have to answer. It's just the other way around. It is not true that we are not in favour of concessions and of putting natural resources into development; rather. Of course, on sound grounds. We can't, gentlemen, give in concessions and give something that's someone else's. So if we want to put all these laws that we're adopting on a healthy basis, we need to clear up first with all the injustices in this society that we've done since World War II and so on. First, the SPC was taken away from the property, to make it economically dependent, to separate itself from the people, and then, normally, a parole was released: pop-up thieves. Typical separation of the church from the people. Immediately after World War II, property was taken away and people were left without life, and to this day it is not fixed. Last stage: communists took away their property with their own municipalities to make them dependent on the headquarters and that they would have to "sun" in front of their peaks. It's not fixed until today. We resent this authority for not doing the discontinuity, not correcting historical injustices; therefore, it had to return all the seized property, to all the ones I mentioned. When we know whose what is what, then we're going to put into operation all the resources and go straight into development. That's what I'm talking about. We're just working to extract resources from our development function! As we do now, we'll do another injustice. We'll make an even bigger gap between the developed and undeveloped. In what way? Those who have begun to use their resources have already developed. The resources remained in undeveloped municipalities. We're going to put them on a spoon, and we're going to load the bulldozers and drive them to headquarters, and then the closer the authorities, they've already achieved something, and they've activated their resources, they're going to get more. We are making an even greater injustice and an even greater gap between developed and undeveloped. That's the point. That is why New Serbia does not accept this law. For what? Article 1 already defines who the concession is, the Serbian government or Serbia, because it owns all the resources. So once again, we will not support this law in principle, nor have we tried to correct it with amendments, because we do not agree with the essence of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26482	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the proposal for concessions in particular. National MP Sinisa Mitrovic, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26483	Dear Mrs Micic, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, allow me to discuss in particular before the start of the debate, in accordance with Article 137. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I suggest that the duration of the debate on amendments be three minutes. Accordingly, according to Article 81, we'd like to extend our working hours until the session is over, so I'm asking you to vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26484	National MP Sinisa Mitrovic made two proposals. The first proposal is to limit the discussion in detail to three minutes. I'm putting that motion to the vote. For 91, against 59, there are no abstentions, 17 did not vote, a total of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal to hold a discussion in detail for three minutes. The second proposal, MP Sinisa Mitrovic, suggested that we extend our working hours until the debate is over in detail. Please, if we say so, we really stay to do it. Otherwise, otherwise, we'll have a session tomorrow, after I scheduled the next session on Tuesday. I put to the vote the second proposal of Parliamentarian Sinisha Mitrovica. For 91, against 57, it did not vote 19, a total of 167 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has made a decision on the extension of working hours. We're moving on to a discussion in detail. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted the first amendment together. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does a representative of the applicants of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Let me just say that there are about 30 amendments to be discussed; there are about 50 of them, but a dozen have already been accepted or withdrawn, so there are 30 amendments left to discuss. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted the 2nd amendment together. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the representative of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that each of you estimates that it's a good thing that this debate is over early, but it's a serious matter, so let's give them some time. In fact, here in Article 2 there is something that surprises the reader of the bill. The law writer undertakes to be fair, to secure a fair match for all participants in a potentially concession arrangement. It's just that everything speaks nicely of its purpose. Whoever takes and reads this Article 2 has only two variants: first, to think it really is; second, to suspect that there are provisions in the other members that point to a different solution. I find it absolutely unnecessary to find Article 2 in the concession law; it is unnecessary to declare, on behalf of this Parliament and this state, that we will be fair and try to ensure an equal match for everyone, because that is understood. In particular, the reader of this Article 2 hardly falls under the fact that the legislator, dead cold, took and deleted Article 4 from the applicable law, and he speaks of the conditions of concession. Through this, Serbian citizens have absolutely committed to the government through their assembly, whichever it is, and how it must and how it should ensure that the concession guarantees a rational use of natural wealth, that it means technological improvement, to protect and improve the environment. As soon as what is written in Article 2, and there are no members who have detailed the minimum provisions that the agreement between the concessions and the concessionaries must have. It is completely left to the free will of a representative, or government and concessionary, to write their own contract. And then we come into a position to really conclude that Article 2 is unnecessary. He's declarative. He's simply trying to introduce us to a beautiful, honest, and why do that if we already are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26486	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted the 3rd amendment together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26487	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People, we have proposed in Article 3 a very similar definition of the concept of concession, which may be only in some details of what was proposed by the Government. But what we think is worthy of attention is the attitude of our third amendment, in which we consider it celibate to be the idea of a domestic person in terms of concession laws. The government said what a foreign person it was. Meanwhile, we have received a new state union of the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro, so we believe that this fact should have its legal reflections on both this and many other laws. Our amendment actually detracts from the government's proposal only in that shade that we propose that this definition of a domestic person be determined as follows - that the domestic person, within the meaning of this law, is a legal person based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and a natural person who has a residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or a residence of at least two years. We believe that the ruling regime in Montenegro has done everything to loosen relations with Serbia and to reach such a very loose community, as it is now objectively the Serbia-Montenegro community, should have the consequences and depriving some of the rights that the citizens of Montenegro had in these areas by yesterday. That is logical, since the main consequence of this definition is that only Serbian citizens and legal persons based on Serbia's territory can be considered a domestic legal entity within the meaning of this law and that this approach was founded in the Charter that we voted in this parliament the other day. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26488	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26489	With our amendment, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are in fact asking that even in the new law, I would still call it the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the existing Law on concessions, retain the provision of concession conditions under the old law. We demand that it remain: "Concession is given on condition that it is provided: 1. rational use of natural wealth or good in general use; 2. technical and technological improvement of activity which is the subject of concession, i.e. technical and technological unity of the system in the area of infrastructure, effective functioning and rational management of the system; 3. protection and improvement of the environment in accordance with environmental regulations. "It is simply, as MPs, we have the right to demand from the government, whatever it is, to respect these conditions under which it is determined to award a concession. In particular, these conditions are important when it comes to large-scale systems, such as NIS, EPS, the travel and railway economy of Serbia. That is why the team is more astoundingly responding to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which fears and says -- if the amendment were accepted, it would create a special regime for these goods, and public enterprises would be placed in a monopoly position. Imagine, we have an obligation to develop a national economy, and the pillars of the national economy are public enterprises. We've all broken up with social property. There should be state and private property, and the key state property, the fact that citizens, through government and through state, are public enterprises. Public enterprises, these concession conditions, say, can take their parts, or the government can put parts of these companies into a potential concession arrangement only if these companies cannot successfully put them into office. But it remains the government's and these companies' obligations and remains a condition beyond these conditions to grant concessions to these segments, e.g. Columbar B is an efficient part of the entire system, which will help the entire system function in a consistent manner. It's about time, especially because of this ongoing privatisation, that we talk about the national economy. Of course, we look forward to the coming of foreign capital, because then even more engages this capital from the domestic market, that domestic successful companies buy failures, but there are systems that must remain completely under the control of the state in majority capital, at least 51%, which are public enterprises. So we can't believe that the legislator of the bill deleted a member who is bound by the Government of the Republic of Serbia -- which conditions must be met, and listed as reasons for the adoption of a concession act, to approach at all a concession act, its adoption and the concession arrangement. I recommend that all MPs be well dosed and that, if you will, since Article 2 is a declaration of honesty, then adopt Article 4 which is the essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26490	The word has a minister of economic ties with abroad, Mr. Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26491	Since counterpart Ivkovic mentioned Article 2 again, then I really had to react for the reason why it is a matter of a declarative principle of honesty. First, we thought we could impose standards, otherwise present in a law that all represent as one of the best in our legal system, which is the Law on bond relations, where the same principle applies to the principles of the law on which certain legal norms are prescribed. That's the first thing we used to do. Secondly, is the question that these principles do not exist without being applied? In the previous law, it was not theoretically written, and in practice, unfortunately, but also fortunately on only one case of concession, not that it was not respected that principle, but it was just not respected these principles which Mr. Ivkovic was now talking about; it was, except that he was talking about technical and technological unity... Exactly, what is rational use, how to define it, who can interpret it. On the other hand, we offer a variant of the justification of the concession itself through working on a particular physibility study, meaning an assessment of justification and impact on the environment and everything else. Therefore, the principles are set out not to declare ourselves fair, but to refer to a reader what this new law is about, when it comes to certain principles such as equal and fair treatment, freedom of competition and respect for the contract institute, which is the law between the parties through the principle of autonomy of will. It is that logic, and this logic where discretionary rights are given to determining what is rational, what is technical and technological unity, I really don't think it can contribute to this country, which Ivkovic is constantly talking about, going towards the development of the national economy, because this is a function of the development of the national economy. I'm sorry, but based on the examples that have been so far, I don't see that those criteria you're talking about have been respected in what has been done in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26492	Is there more applications for this amendment? No, there isn't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26493	The replica that Mrs. Chairman did not allow me; Mr. Pitici and you and I are clear that the 1997 concession law could not live because all potential concessionaries fell into the water the moment the states were. Governments from which potential concessionaries banned the signing of concessions. You're right about that one concession -- and I'm sorry that that concession was done then without those who know concessions work, but I can ask you what you've been doing for 2.5 years, you haven't adopted any concession acts, and you had the Law? That is why you have proposed a law on concessions, not the law on amendments and additions to the Law on concessions, to erase from the minds of Serbian citizens the fact that you have had excellent law, according to European standards, and that you have not applied it and that you have not even offered any project to potential concessionaries, and you have had at least four good projects from the old days. As for the amendments to Article 5, we would like to point out that we are caught up in the fact that the regulation of the use of the river and lake coasts, the construction of objects for the performance of the work, reshape in your text and that it only writes - the editing and use of the banks of rivers and lakes. The "activation" section has been deleted. It is certainly clear to you and MPs that the performance of the work means precision, regional and spatial plans, that the purpose of each space is precisely known and that if you delete this provision, the performance of the work, it is clear that someone can take over some port coast, open a cafe and do such a job. So it's not in line with the interests of the citizens and the state based on their plans. Secondly, a medical concessionist asks if anyone even knows what a concession is. Concession is giving exclusive rights for some purpose. If you allow someone to treat rheumatotic diseases in Serbia's territory, then basically all rheumatotic patients will have to be treated for who received the concession for it. In general, health concessioning is a very problematic fact. I must tell you that I have read ten legislative projects from ten European countries and no country in that area has given concessions. The most cardinal events are in the area of local self-government. The Law on Community Works, which I have proposed here and defended as an MP, provides that concessionion is at all the investment of majority capital on the side of actions that can be paralysed. But in which you can't, such as district heating, plumbing, rail transport in cities, you can't give a concession; because a man who would get the right to heat New Belgrade has a monopoly over the heating of New Belgrade and can behave beyond all the rules, he can understand that it's his property at 10, 15 or 20 years. So it's amazing that you didn't follow the fact that the Law on municipal activities, which is in force, provides for monopoly activities in the field of municipal activity, such as plumbing and sewerage, rail transport, remote heating system, that there is only a process of recapitalisation and no majority ownership, private, domestic or foreign capital, and especially not concessioning. I think it's clear why.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26494	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26495	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, on behalf of the SPS, along with a group of MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. A bill of this law. This Article provides that the concession may be granted for up to 30 years and for factors to determine the duration of the concession. As one of the factors for determining the duration of the concession, time is provided for the construction of the facility. We believe that this issue in the Government proposal is not precisely formulated and that it is necessary to carry out an appropriate complement. In this respect, we propose a clearer and more logical definition of this issue. In the absence of the time needed to carry out preparatory actions for the construction of the facility, i.e. the duration of the concession is not included. start of a concession of activity. Justification of the acceptance of the amendment can best be seen on a case. Let's take a concession to exploit the mineral treasure. A concession for a mine, for it to be opened and exploited. Surely in that case, it takes a lot of time to do the project, make the necessary facilities, get the necessary machinery, train the workforce, regulate the access routes, and not keep counting. There really is much more to be done. It is logical that this time should not enter the term of the concession. On the other hand, in order for the concessionary not to be suddenly delayed with these works, the amendment is proposed that the duration of these works should be determined in advance. Not only in the contract, but in order to know the rules -- which is the deadline, when the tender is already being called, for concession concessions. It's not just a matter of post-contracting. This uncertainty in market conditions may repel the interested party. He's not sure how long his contract will take; whether one, half or two years, which, in certain cases, could be important. All rules of the game must be known in advance. By adopting amendments, this issue would be precisely regulated and we would achieve equal protection of the state body as a concessionor and concessionaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26496	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic, who are proposing that a new section be added to Articles 6a and 6b after Article 6. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26497	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I believe that everyone in the hall, as well as TV viewers, is clear that concessions are a very specific business that requires very broad and expertise from many areas; from knowledge of international financial institutions, the way they operate, the organisation of the UN, the World Bank, to specific ways of closing financial structures and forming concession companies. All in all, for this job, this country has as many experts as it can count on the fingers of one hand. No more. The law proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia provides for all ministries and all local self-government to be dealt with. This is good because in a professional way, each ministry has the most written people when it comes to mining and energy, and with experts on the part of technology and technology, it can address the problem and prepare a concessionary. When local self-government gives concessions on its territory, it can also provide a lot of local data. What's wrong with that whole story? It is not right for everyone to enroll in the first grade of elementary school, which everyone starts to learn about concessions, which you have 1,000 ducks across Serbia, and across the street sits the exaggerated white collars taught to take these jobs both in Slovakia, and in Hungary and who knows where they were not, from Bechtel, Ove Arup & Company and other large consulting houses. The law in force, until its adoption, therefore envisioned the agency as a service to the ministries, local self-government. It preserves the continuity of the state building, Serbia's government on negotiations in progress, on completed negotiations; experience with these negotiations: the quality of the contractual solutions reached, what concessions, which are concessions on deadlines, what is the internal rate of return of capital, whether these negotiations give way to one and the other. Now, when the Ministry of Local Self-Government gets a written team, which has five, ten, twenty negotiations behind it, then the next, sixth, eleven, and twenty-first, are potentially more successful, because the government has the continuity of knowledge. Unfortunately, the draftr of this law on amendments and additions to the law has come up with a plan to delete the agency, although today there are 5,000 agencies in the government. And right where it's supposed to be, where specific knowledge is erased, instead there's a Article 24 that says, "Government records every concession... "or hit the seal and put it in the file. So we're appealing to you and the pronoun to measure what it does well. We suggest our amendment that members of 6a, 6b and 6e, who are detained by the agency, not as the boss, but as the continuity of knowledge of past affairs, the basis of much more willing work and more successful negotiations on future affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26498	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? He has the word of Minister Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26499	Just a brief comment, perhaps to help Mr. Ivkovic, to change his mind about this amendment after all, because I may not have given enough information. In fact, it is this: it is one thing to adopt a proposal on a concession act: it is another matter of negotiation, led by a commission and proposed by the government. So there can be continuity and to take advantage of these advantages of the economy, in terms of using some previous knowledge of negotiation. The government is going to the concept of using those professional resources, as you said, by definition located in the resolution ministries, with the possibility and local self-government, as well as the competent ministries to use certain expertise or advisory roles of some institutes that could help. The Ministry of Economic Relations is scheduled to develop a unit in charge only of concessions, to do so in the form of monitoring this serious and complicated activity. Let me say one more thing against the agency in this context; there is a law in the assembly procedure on the establishment of an investment and export promotion agency; it also needs to pick up some investment-related activities, and this potential organisational-institutional gap, which could result in this being not supported, will be filled in. If this is what I've managed to convince you, in some way, that there's a thought of complexity, and the citizens who follow this know what the complexity of this procedure is, I hope you change your mind and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26500	On Article 7 of the amendment, with correction, he submitted to the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs. The amendment was agreed by a representative of the government, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. National MPs Jovan Todorovic and Slobodan Tomovic withdrew this amendment on behalf of the amendment applicants at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Economic Relations with abroad, as the substance of this amendment is covered by the amendment of the Committee. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26501	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr Minister, I don't think there's any reason for this amendment to the Serbian Unity Party to be accepted. He is simply very good and it is said to be in Article 7(1). The draft law replaces the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the words "Concessions Committee". As good as the amendment is, I believe the minister will accept it. The explanation is given, it is in line with your democratic beliefs. So, the Committee accepts instead of the government to solve it, as well as in all other legislative bodies where the agencies are. There's no reason not to accept it and I believe you'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26502	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is an opportunity to point out the inconsistencies of the legislator to be examined in the adoption of two or three amendments to Article 7 collected in one sublimation as an amendment to the parent committee, which significantly changes the concept of Articles 7, 8 and 9, i.e. the jurisdiction to grant concessions. We've had this bill in the process for a year. For a year, the government thought it was a job exclusively for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, whether it has the right of an autonomous province and local self-government to submit a proposal to the government, that is something else, but nowhere has the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia been mentioned, so that today the minister would come out and as if he had seen the bill for the first time, exclusively defend the right of the National Assembly to interfere in giving concessions in Articles 7, 8 and 9, in a tender, in a commission that makes tender documentation and conducts a tender. I really didn't expect it from a minister who seems to be calm, and he's able to bite his heart and retreat from the battlefield. If I were you, Minister, today when I was denied democratic right, I would say - Mrs. Micic, I did cause a replica. It's like when a football player or a basketball player raises his hand and says, "Yes, I made a foul," or when he deliberately misses a pen because he wasn't a foul, and he's being sentenced. You see, Minister, it's easy for you, you've been preparing this bill for a year. You're so capable that if a new amendment was made yesterday, you come out for a pay phone and defend that amendment that changes the concept of your law as if it came from your pen. People's MPs aren't in that situation because you 30 in so many areas here are showing up in front of us, and we always have to mate. This hasn't been a day, this has been less than half a day. You have to understand MPs who have 50 laws in their bags take the one on the agenda. If, say, someone last year had written amendments to the concession bill, everyone would have told him -- what's wrong with you, don't you have a lot more to do, who knows when that law will come on the agenda? It is inappropriate to write amendments until the draft law is put on the agenda. The draft law shall be put on the agenda before the expiry of the deadline for writing the amendment, Minister. We weren't in the same position, you who proposed the law and we needed to fix it or at least to object to certain solutions that were not in line with our program. You've had a lot more time, Mr. Minister, and at least refrain from sending packages to the MPs, a team before I could blame the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia for a solution accepted by the amendment, which completely changes its views on who the concession is and who decides about the concession. Now I'm convinced you were right. You accepted the amendment to have the votes of certain parliamentary groups. You were afraid the law might not pass, and I'm telling the National Assembly, nothing that one representative of the National Assembly, in all your bodies, will mean anything. That's one DOS representative over. That's one DOS representative more to you who wrote this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26504	Second warning in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26505	When's the second warning? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26506	If you continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26507	To you who wrote this amendment - you only gave the government a chance to say that the To God respects the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26508	No more notifications on this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. National MP Novica Djuraskovic withdrew this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, as the substance of this amendment was covered by the amendment of the Committee. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Kovacevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? The word is from MP Jovan Todorovic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26509	Mrs. Micic, Mr. Minister, I missed the opportunity to talk about the amendment to Article 7, but now I will not, given that the Committee on Development essentially accepted several amendments, sublimed them into one text acceptable to all members of this Committee on Development, and also because a respected colleague Tomislav Nikolic tried to say something that did not stand. First, I don't see what the problem is for the National Assembly to discuss the most important concessions under this law. If it is thought that the government will always be able to articulate the general public interest, to define the importance of a particular concession, and that parliament should not have any influence, then I think it is the wrong thesis. If this parliament supports the government, then, as a rule, I say, but with the opportunity of opposition MPs to say their opinions, the majority will accept the government's proposal to grant concessions on a particular case, so if it is a highway, railway, thermal power station or other strategically important and international importance of the facility, then the assembly majority will agree on that. I don't see what's the opposite of the basic intensity and the previous concession law and the one that's now being proposed. Finally, I think that we should be satisfied that we are able to discuss those items of concession that are part of the general national wealth and that needs general and wider, the widest possible public to know much more than we know in the case that the government, as a rule, reports about its work once a year; I know from experience, I know that it actually doesn't, because we haven't had a chance to consider these reports. About how anyone will vote on this bill we'll see in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26510	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, and then the MP Branislav Ivkovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26511	Only about consistency and inconsistency: so many cementers went away, so many sugarcanes went away, half the natural wealth went without knowledge and intelligence of the National Assembly. One day, if there were irregularities, the government would answer to the courts. He can't answer to the National Assembly, unless politically, if there are 126 of us to bring it down, but we can't say now in concessions -- it's very important that the Assembly decides on concessions and does not decide on privatisation, the process in progress, or it will be completed in a few years. The question is, in a few years, are we going to have any valuable concessions? Then why didn't you argue that the National Assembly has a member in the tender commission, that there in those agencies, which have been formed and established, be a representative of the National Assembly. We don't belong there. It's a matter of executive authority, and we've given her the law to do it, and we don't interfere anymore, and we have no right to do it. She would have the right to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the indignation to reject the amendment that it is fair, fair and fair and that it does everything according to the Constitution and the law. She could say, for God's sakes, the MPs, are we the Government or you? And at this time, to say that concessions must be attended by the Assembly, and states fall apart from the knowledge of the National Assembly, it does not seem to me to be rational and reasonable thinking, dear predecessor!
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26512	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened to Parliament Speaker's proposal, but since the discussion has developed, I must support the views of MP Tomislav Nikolic. I think the pots are completely confused here, and unfortunately, my Minister Pitici, I'm afraid that, in fact, these amendments, which you have accepted, will make it very difficult and simply disabling this area, and I believe that you sincerely want to develop it. Of the 10 legal projects in Europe that I have seen, I think only in one country, and I am not sure, there is such a solution, but without conditions to respond within four months to the government's proposal. Concession work is a professional job. The task of the Council of the Republic of Serbia is to pass such a law that will define the co-ordination system of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide here with regular and quality work as quickly and efficiently as possible, and not that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, elected in this assembly with the majority of whatever it is, has tutors now, so the proposal on concessions is delivered here - where people do not sit for concessions of arrangements; here there are experts for different professions, and at least for that profession - and four months a potential concessionary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to wait. Why is this demagogy, if it is also valid and your law envisioned public bidding, tenders, publication in the official note of Vojvodina, the "Official Messenger" of Serbia, the publication of a tender in the international magazine, and if all is done publicly? Why drag the congregation into the whole process and if you want to share responsibility? I think this move, which is very unusual in Europe, may be the only country if it has such a solution and I'm not sure, has completely disabled this law that you're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26514	Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Olga Kircanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26515	The Honorable Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we were thinking at first, when we came to the hands of the government's report on which all amendments to this article were accepted, to decide and to withdraw the amendment. However, I will not withdraw it for the reason that the intensity and intention of our amendment was to limit the time limit for responding to the concessionary - I think the final text of the member according to the proposal of the Committee shows that this limitation of time from six months refers only to the points set out in Article 5, for the subject matter of concessions of strategic or international importance, and that this is too long for all other points of Article 5. So I'm going to let you maybe include in the legal technical order some time limit or a 30-day time limit that we've proposed to this amendment, because it's too long for six months as the deadline for getting an answer for all points in Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26516	Is there more applications for this amendment? No, there isn't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Representative of the Government adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Novica Djuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26517	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in Article 8(1). The bill says: "The ministry is preparing a proposal for the adoption of a concession act to be delivered to the government". In view of the second member, it is said that local self-government is preparing a proposal for the act and delivers it with the opinion of the competent ministry to the government. Now, in the opinion of the Social Democratic League MPs of Vojvodina, there is a gap. We were deeply convinced that this government, we voted for it and we have been supporting it for two years, to realize that there is an AP Vojvodina in Serbia! Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like it yet. I must remind all of you, as well as Mr. Minister, that there is a legally elected Assembly in Vojvodina, that there is a circuit executive, executive body of that assembly, and that there are the competent authorities of these institutions capable of preparing a proposal for a concession act, if the subject of the concession is located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In this sense, our amendment goes, /we expect the proposal to adopt a concession act, when the subject is located in the territory of the Autonomous Region, to prepare the competent authority of the Autonomous Region for the purpose of delivering to the Government. We ask nothing more than what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, which the authorities have in local self-government. We expect that in voting day, the assembly majority will have an understanding of what I'm talking about right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26518	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26519	The government of the Republic of Serbia should be commended here for refusing this amendment as absolutely unacceptable. By accepting the amendments to Article 7 of the concession proposal, it can come from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province and the local self-government unit. If we accept this amendment, it would turn out that in the territory of the AP Vojvodina not only exists the Serbian government, but also the local self-government units. What gives you the right to believe that in the territory of the AP Vojvodina there are only the organs of the AP Vojvodina?- I'm sorry. Where do you get the right to eliminate the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the territory of an autonomous province?- I'm sorry. Furthermore, it is as if you believe that you are democratically oriented when you eliminate your local self-government from the right to propose concessions for certain actions. Not only should this amendment be rejected, for the much better amendments I wrote on the draft Rules of Procedure or on certain laws, the Legislative Committee said in its report that they should be rejected. Is that right, Mr. Ristic? Boyan Pajtić, from the scene: Deny. ) Why didn’t you from the Legislative Committee reject this amendment? This amendment does not deserve to be spoken of at a session of the National Assembly and does not deserve not even to be accepted by the National Assembly.- I'm sorry. This amendment must be rejected, as more should be done with the proposings of such amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26520	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? National MP Novica Djuraskovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26521	I once again noticed and realized that Mr. Nikolic is a skilled orator and that such a skillfully replaced the thesis in his manner. He said that we suggested what we were and I stand behind it, but he kept quiet that in this Article 8 he remained position 3, which does not erase local self-government! Take the law and read it, because you advise us to read the laws. You who have so far read all the laws studio-reading, worked on them, burned here, read it now and say you've made a mistake. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26522	This was a replica. He sought a replica based on misreading and the content of his presentation showed that he was right because he was misread. Therefore, in Article 8, no confusion remains for the authorities of the autonomous province and the authorities of local self-government. That was the explanation. Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment is the afternoon MP Branislav Kovacevic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment. With the amendment, a meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad was agreed by a representative of the Government, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, MP Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26523	Madam Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, since I am almost certain that our amendment to Article 7 will pass, I suggest you also accept our amendment to Article 9, as it is a logical extension of the amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26524	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26525	Since I'm really reading every bill and I'm trying to figure out what it's all about, I have to reject the interpretation that Mrs. Comic gave me, convincing me that the predecessor was right and that he didn't cause the replica. In fact, the provision that the local self-government unit can make a proposal for a concession is general, and by accepting the amendments we would have abolished it for the territory of the autonomous province, because the amendment was completely clear. (Leila Ruzdić, from the post: We've been through this. Not yet, we're passing it now. "The proposal for the adoption of a concession act, when the subject is located in the territory of an autonomous province, is being prepared by the competent authority of the autonomous province to deliver to the government." So, for the territory of the autonomous province, you didn't predict the units of local self-government, you thank each other that you certainly didn't predict the government. Now I'm telling you, you're not even local self-government units. I don't know what it said in the amendment that was the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26526	We're still going through the previous amendment. So, it goes on to say, "The current positions of the 2nd and 3rd members become positions 3rd and 4th." Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Milos Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, here you see, and in Article 11, we have stated that, if the possibility of excluding a public tender in the award of concessions and the alleged threat of national defence and security, such an exception would become a rule and become a mass abuse, because it should not be forgotten that the government would decide. You see, there's a very broad notion of national defence and security, etc. Perhaps that should be better explained in the legislative text. It's a big concept, and therefore, since the tender is at stake, any possibility of excluding the tender becomes discriminatory and gives reason to people to comment differently on it. I don't think it's a bad amendment, and I hope you adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26528	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26529	The question here is, why would even if national defences and the security of the tender proceedings were at stake, or not public? How is it that for a public concession only after the call and publication of the concession for the concessionaires' election process, we find that it cannot be made public, as this would put national defence and security at risk. So building infrastructure, which would be given to the concessionaire, does not endanger defence and security, but the election process, perhaps even the name that gets the concession in the tender, threatens national defence and security. The government didn't explain the whole bill enough. On two pages, the explanation of 44-45 members is not enough, and it was not allowed to explain the solution. She just wrote what a member regulates. This member is undefined. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. Come on, now introduce that the National Assembly decides when the tender cannot be made public. Why should the government decide? Why don't you say it now, this is where a special committee decides which National Assembly will appoint its representative. When you drag the National Assembly in, drag it all the way. Especially if it is known that all our facilities whose discovery could endanger our defence and security have long been recorded both by foreign military representatives and foreign experts from various areas have trampled their feet into every object that guards our defense and security. I don't see any reason why the government wants the general solution to shut down the public, to rule out transparency. This may be prescribed, I don't have the old law, it might be prescribed from him. At the time the old law was passed, we were against it, but then there was the possibility of something being preserved from Americans and NATO. Now you don't keep it, you offer it to them as a tray. Yesterday we watched the most secret film you handed over to The Hague, and I don't believe anyone smuggled it past your knowledge. Someone's ratting on each other, and you're finding out what the Tower unit's doing. Next time you go to them at night, convince them not to complain, tell them the tapes went accidentally to The Hague about their actions in defence of Serbian national interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26530	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. With this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations abroad, a representative of the Government agreed, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres and Novica Djuraskovic. National MP Novica Djuraskovic withdrew this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, on behalf of the applicants, because the substance of its amendment was covered by the amendment of the Committee. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic, Zoran R. Angelkovic. National MPs Jovan Todorovic and Slobodan Tomovic withdrew this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, on behalf of the applicants, because the substance of their amendment was covered by the amendment of the Committee. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. With this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations abroad, a representative of the Government agreed, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The amendments were submitted by MP Vlatko Sekulovic. National MP Vlatko Sekulovic withdrew this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, as the substance of its amendment was covered by the amendment of the Committee. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. National MP Novica Djuraskovic withdrew this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, on behalf of the applicants, because the substance of its amendment was covered by the amendment of the Committee. National MP Srda Popovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has adopted this amendment. The amendment agreed with the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) There is a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment, MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26531	For the purpose of the economy of time, I will explain the amendments to Article 16 and immediately to Article 17. In fact, the Soviet Parliament group believes that Article 16 instead of "60 days" should stand for "30 days". The member reads: "The Commission is obliged to submit to the Government a report within 60 days of the end of the public tender procedure to the Government on the public tender with a reasoned proposal on the selection of bidders that made the most favourable offer." It is indeed an extremely long 60-day period for this kind of activity, given that this deadline runs from the date of completion of the procedure to the submission of the report; therefore, in the adoption process, all the elements have already been sufficiently developed, developed and processed, etc. The fact is, this job isn't going to work for 60 days. My business friend used to say -- we know you'll be doing it for a few hours, it's just a matter of whether now or in 60 days. Therefore, we believe that the 30-day deadline is quite appropriate, given the situation in the country, that we want these jobs to start as soon as possible and that we should not play with time. In short, since I will not report for the next amendment, it should be written - that the decision to determine the concessionaires is made within 30 days. We believe that 15 days is enough for the government to make a decision, if he already has a fully reasoned proposal, with all arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26532	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has adopted this amendment. The amendment agreed with the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? There's a word from MP Novi Đuraskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26533	I just have to point out one procedural error - the Legislative Committee decides whether the amendment is legally possible or not. I don't think it's the Legislative Committee that's supposed to propose accepting or not accepting the amendments. The argument that the amendment does not comply with the law does not stand, and the evidence of this - I attended the session of the Legislative Committee and the votes of the members of the Legislative Committee were divided. If the same thing half of them thinks they can't, and the other half thinks they can, and all the members of the Legislative Committee are lawyers, then there's, in my opinion, something wrong. I claim, I have consulted some other lawyers, not members of the Legislative Committee, that this amendment is legally possible and I do not think that the proposal for a committee does not stand to be accepted by the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26534	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? There's a word Mr. Bojan Pajtic, president of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26535	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only give a procedural clarification. So every committee in parliament has the right to propose to the Assembly to accept or reject a certain amendment, as well as the Legislative. The Legislative Committee has no less rights than other committees. The result of the vote was the following - six members of the Legislative Committee were to propose to the Assembly to reject the amendment, three against and two abstentions. Six is, in fact, most votes. The Legislative Committee has proposed to the Assembly that an amendment be rejected due to disagreement with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26536	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdja Popovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment. With this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, a representative of the Government agreed, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment to be possible first, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Vlatko Sekulović, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Vera Markovic, Dragan Milentijevic, Slavica Tatomir and Miroslav Christodulo together submitted to the 18th amendment. At a session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, National MPs Natasa Milojevic and Vlatko Sekulovic, on behalf of the amendment's applicants, withdrew the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants, the word has been given by MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26537	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, the amendment of the Soviet Union to article 18 has actually been accepted because it is contained in the amendment of counterpart Srdja Popovic. However, speaking of the amendment that was adopted, we have made little mistake, that is, the one who adopted the amendment because it was accepted to replace the word "participate" with the word "present". At first glance, however, this does not change much, but this is not about the mere presence of the work of the tender commission. All those who can attend the work of the tender commission - and these can be interested citizens, journalists, etc., and participants who have deposited, made an offer, etc. - cannot be identified by legal text. And in all other regulations, in the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Liabilities, etc., who is active in the procedure is called a participant, and for his conduct the term is used to participate. The term present can apply to all other citizens. I personally had a dilemma about whether to submit this amendment, because I felt that it would be corrected by technical regulation, and obviously it was a mistake in writing the law. Of course you can't invite someone seven days after opening an offer, because it would be a mere mistake, but I think an even bigger mistake was made by adopting this whole amendment and I'm asking you to look at it too, so possibly through some technical order to bring it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26538	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Parliamentarians Branislav Ivković, Drgan Tomic, Stevan Ž. Gudurić, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted the 20th amendment together. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Branislav Ivkovic, on behalf of the applicants for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26539	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's understand some things about the tender, the public bidding and the competition. What can vary with the bidder in one contest - it can vary the length of the concession period, the level of concession fee, the percentage of the obligation to participate in the domestic operation, the volume of credit provided by the concessionary to the country's concessionary. We can estimate that a project can last 15 years. Someone can offer 12 concessions and 18 years. We can estimate the concession fee of 21m euros, e.g. Every year, someone can offer 25, someone can offer 16. We can estimate that 70% of the funds involved should go into domestic operation, and someone will offer 75%, some 50%. So it is clear that there are many parameters varying between potential bidders, and that is why it is very important for those who adopt concessions to call a public tender, or public bidding, because the tender is an integral part of the bidding; that as many participants appear in this competition, that they compete among themselves and that the country concession draws maximum for itself - the shorter concession deadline, the higher the concession fee, the higher the percentage of the participation of domestic operatives and the more favourable amounts of credit for the country or for individual arrangements. What we had in the earlier law -- Article 13 said that the concession was given through a public bid procedure, as it relied on federal regulations, through a tender. It has been said that there must be at least two bidders and then the bidding has succeeded, and extremely, if someone who is chosen fails, the call system can go, but normally two bidders again. What did we get from the bill promoter? We've been looking for a rabbit and we've finally caught him, so it's our chance that this article is the 20th basic motive for passing this law. Article 20 states: "If only one participant in whose offer the competent ministry finds to meet the conditions and criteria of the public tender, the Commission may decide, on a proposal from the competent ministry, to repeat a public tender (we, in our amendment, ask for a point, and unfortunately, the legislator is seeking) or, on the basis of the negotiations conducted with the participant, to propose to the Government that the participant in the public tender be awarded a concession". So we understand. This law, if we adopt it without amendments submitted by national Socialists, will allow the competent ministry to only negotiate, without the competence of other participants in the business, with one negotiator and with one single bidder and to make that one bidder a concession. I'm sure you should wipe that out. Our amendment implies, if one is a bidder, that the tender is considered to have failed and that a new call path or again should be made publicly, but there has to be a market, that there is a match, competition. We all had opportunities to negotiate without two and three negotiators and a potential competitor has no real value for the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26540	The Minister, Mr Pitic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26541	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will respond to what Mr. Ivkovic said. I suppose it's still run by a political thread. I'm sure as a college professor, who's been through a lot in this business, and how well he knows why this member is set up in this way and that this member doesn't avoid competition at all, but on the contrary. A public tender gives space, and a team before it is published in a manner envisaged by law both in the domestic daily list and in the official messenger. If it's an international tender, it's in the international list. So everyone has the option if they want to participate in the tendering process in the manner prescribed and, if they meet certain criteria, to potentially be selected as a concessionary by these criteria. Unlike when it comes to calls, a call by definition can mean some discretion and the choice of one who will receive the invitation to participate in an additional competition. I explained that we're going to that variant when there's simply not enough potential concessionaires in certain concessions. I understood that we understood when I was talking about it, that in that case, it was not uncommon for only one potential bidder to appear in the concessionaire's tender, because it is represented by consortiums. In these conditions to repeat the tender for the sake of the tender, because only one has applied, and before everyone has had the opportunity to appear in the tender, I don't think it's in the interest of the state. The state wants a certain concession to be completed in a manner defined by a public tender, and depending on the conditions discussed, there is the possibility of not even doing so, as it is foreseen that a contract can be concluded with a potential concessionaire.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26542	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic jointly submitted the 21st Amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Here's a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26543	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, along with a group of SPS MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 22. A bill of this law. This Article provides for what is to be contained in the concession agreement. Among other things, it states at point 2) that the contract determines the duration of the concession and the conditions under which that period can be extended. We propose the amendment to supplement, in that sense that the duration of the concession can be extended only in accordance with the concession act and the public tender ad. It must not remain indeterminate in the law, that the negotiating commission may subsequently make decisions from case to case. If we did not complete the amendment proposed, there would be a possibility that individual concessionaries would be granted benefits afterwards. Moreover, there would remain a potential possibility for the abuse of the negotiating commission. The second part of the amendment refers to point 11). This part of the amendment is proposed to supplement, in this sense that the concession agreement can be changed, broken up, negotiated which are changed circumstances, higher power, only in accordance with the concession act and the tender notice. Every potential concessionaire has to know the rules in advance. Only according to the specific conditions can the concession agreement be concluded. As an example, I will indicate a higher force as an element that can affect the extension and change of the contract. In the draft law, it is only mentioned in this article by the way. However, if no provision is made in the tender, this may have major consequences for the duration of the concession, both for the termination of the contract and for the determination of other changed circumstances. It's not just the fire, the flood, the earthquake. It is also common in international contracts to treat the strike of workers as a higher force, and this may also serve as an excuse to extend the terms of the contract or to amend certain provisions. In order to avoid intentional pranks, rules are provided for in advance as long as deadlines and other conditions can be changed for these reasons. All of this must be stated in the public tender ad. There must be no indetermination, that after a public tender, certain other conditions are agreed. Uncertainty leaves room for certain benefits and concessionaries to be granted after the tender. On the other hand, the indeterminateness of all the details of the public tender advertising will refuse certain potential stakeholders to report to the tender. For those reasons, it is fully justified to accept the amendment, and the law should clearly define that concession contracts can only be concluded in accordance with the concession act and the public tender notice. That's the essence of our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26544	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Branislav Ivković, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Gudurić, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP Milos Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26545	We have submitted an amendment to Article 25, and we propose to add at the end of this article -- "if he participated in a concession tender and in order on the final list of bidders". In this regard, this member of the concession law is intended to replace concessionaries with others who did not participate in the tender, but at the will of banks and other financial institutions that follow one of the concessionaires participating in the tender. However, the adoption of such a member of the law directly contradicts Article 2 of this Act, which lays down the principles of equal and fair treatment, free competitions and autonomy of will. The principle of equal and fair treatment includes a prohibition of discrimination among participants on any basis. In the event that the first one fails to do the job, we believe that the second one in the tender is entitled to take over these transactions, and the banks and other financial institutions are following that participant in the tender, not the third one. The principle of free competition also covers the ban on limiting the match between participants, with the obligation to accept all participants with appropriate technical, financial and other professional qualifications. Because the participants in the tender have documented all of this and shown, and we, as a member of this 25th law, are practically putting all these principles of the law out of force.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26546	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Srda Popovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Representative of the Government adopted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Parliamentarians Branislav Ivkovic, Dragan Tomic, Stevan Guduric, Vladimir Garčević and Zoran D. Nikolic submitted the 28th amendment together. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. There's a word from MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26547	The Honored Presidency, Mr Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the National Socialists Group has tabled an amendment to Article 28. The proposal for a concession law, proposed by the government to split funds from a concession fee -- suggests that they are the income of the Republic and we are not against it. In Article 2(2), it proposes that 5% of these funds be allocated to finance the development of autonomous province infrastructure in whose territory a concession is carried out, and 3rd, that 5% be allocated to finance the development of the infrastructure of local self-government units in which a concession is carried out. With our amendment, we propose to delete this second position, namely this 5% separation to finance the development of the Autonomous Province's infrastructure for two primarily legal reasons. First, that concessions are good in general use and natural resources in the possession of the Republic, in the state-owned regime. Under the Constitution, the Government of the Republic of Serbia manages state property. Secondly, we, Omnibus by law, sharing jurisdiction between the Republic and the Autonomous Province, or speaking of trusted transactions, have left out the possibility that concessions to businesses, in any part, are carried out by the Autonomous Province authorities, precisely for these first constitutional and legal reasons. I think that's entirely justified. If so, then I find it not logical to distinguish between citizens and favour citizens who live, with circumstances, in the territory of an autonomous province and that their infrastructure develops through concessions more quickly and quality, because there is no legitimate reason for that. But that's why we suggest, also with our amendment, that all municipalities where the concession works, instead of 5% of that fee, be set aside 10%. We believe this is a more honest approach and more consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and with the Omnibus law passed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26548	Is there more applications for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš and Novica Djuraskovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic, Zoran R. Angelkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26549	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on the proposal for a concession law, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, with my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 28 of this Law. It regulates how and how concession fees are directed. The funds resulting from the concession fee are the income of the Republic and this is not disputed, although the question is whether it is sufficient to allocate 5% of that amount to finance the development and infrastructure of the autonomous province and the local self-government unit, in which the concession activity is carried out. It is also appropriate that the funds resulting from the concession fee for carrying out municipal activity be the income of the local self-government unit. However, we propose adding a new item 4, which reads: "The funds achieved from the concession fee under the concessions referred to in Article 5, point 3, 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) and 10) will be used for the development of the Republic of Serbia at 90% to finance the development of infrastructure in areas subject to concessions". To take a moment, article 5 regulates what may be the subject of the concession. It lists potential items, with the possibility that the subject matter of the concession may be other activities, provided that they are defined by law as activities of general interest. In our view, it is logical for the funds to be achieved through concessions for highways, railways, airports, ports, telecommunications, pipelines, pipelines and power plants to be used to finance the development of exactly these areas, not general public consumption, which essentially costs the goods of the highest national interest. The Legislative Committee has concluded that the amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad that it is not acceptable, as the government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of having accepted a number of amendments from the Socialist Party parliamentary groups. The government's rationale for not accepting this amendment is that the funds have been achieved through concessions for public revenues and are allocated as such by the budget law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Socialists remain on the proposed amendment because of the interests of Serbian citizens and the development of the Republic of Serbia's infrastructure. The adoption of this amendment is necessary only if the government still needs this law not only to buy time and extend government for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26550	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a MP, Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and then a National MP, Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26551	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of pushing the Socialist Party of Serbia's proposal into the percentage that was proposed, but it is my intention to point to something very important. We now objectively have such a situation that public spending is financed, among other things, by the budget deficit. It's a fact and reality we can't escape from. We make up for the budget deficit as a rule by taking loans, domestic or foreign, and by using privatisation funds to cover the budget deficit. If we continue with this concept, then we will be in danger of spending the funds that are made based on concessions, deliberately speaking concessions because our amendment does not apply only to certain concessions, very quickly, so that the national wealth goes into public spending. We do not insist on accepting exactly 90% of the funding achieved from the concession fee will be intended precisely for the construction of infrastructure facilities from areas covered by points 3), 4), 5), 6), 7), 8) and 10, but this does not mean that if funds are made on the basis of the compensation for the use of highways, there must be a highway, but at least some of the infrastructure objects from these areas. For me, it's the essence of the amendment, although I know it's hard for the minister to accept such an amendment, because we really now have the fact that, right now, the reverse situation is relative to what it's supposed to be. As one fellow MP said at the Committee on Development and Economic Relations session, it is clear that this amendment is being discussed in a country richer than Serbia, because it would certainly be accepted, because there is a question here that the funds, in fact in the future, in the next few years, will finance the construction of infrastructure facilities, such as the completion of the Valjevo-Loznica track; we have started, two or three times built, wars broke out, and now we have a situation that approximately one third of the railways are not completed, two thirds of them are not, and in the budget objectively from regular incomes, we do not have enough funds for the investment activity of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask that, at least in preparation or in the application of these solutions, it is thought in this way, that everything does not come down to a percentage directed precisely for the purposes indicated by our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26552	People's MP Branislav Ivkovic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid we're not talking about something that can really be, because honestly speaking concession fees certainly on valid projects and it won't exist or it'll be very small. For this country, it would be extremely large to find a concessionaire to finish Colubar "B" with 350-400 million dollars, exploit it for 10 years, and leave this nation and this country to be exploited; or build a highway from Nis to the Macedonian border, exploited for 20 years and left it to this people. I don't think there will be, and don't hope for any larger concession fees, but if there are, I don't understand why the promoter means that the citizens of Vrbasa are in a better position than the citizens of Valjev, because the citizens of Vrbasa because they live in an autonomous province have 5% of their own, plus 5% of the Autonomous Region, with the full right to expect those 90%, and the citizens of Valjev have only 5%. This proposal, the secession of the Republic and regionalisation does not lead to anything. We are in favour of decentralisation and strengthening local self-government, but we national Socialists fully support the proposal of the SPS MPs, which means exactly what is unfortunately deleted, which is the preservation of the overall system. If a concession arrangement is made out of the travel economy and if there is a concession fee, it goes into the travel economy, because the travel industry is certainly still financed by the toll highway of Belgrade - Nis. If this goes into some concession tomorrow, it is normal for this fee to go to the development of the travel economy and the preservation of the overall system, as well as a possible fee from a "B" Colubara, which you have raised in the sky under clouds.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26554	The word is made by MP Novica Djuraskovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 28.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26555	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of Article 28, where the distribution of funds is being discussed, suddenly completely different opinions and views appear. While the Social Democrats' League MPs, who support some other political parties, believe that 5%, as foreseen by Article 28, for the province, is not enough and we expect 30%, the Socialists appear, whether people or non-national, were neither people nor others until yesterday, and support the law that one of the most shameful laws passed in this country because they allowed the greatest theft and robbery of this people. You, gentlemen, at the end of 1995 passed a law that kidnapped all property and local self-government and the Autonomous province of Vojvodina. Now you're referring to that law and you think you're very right. It's nice to think of local self-government and to want to increase the percentage of separation for local self-government. We have not submitted an amendment in this regard because the MP groups of National Socialists and the Party of Serbian Unity have submitted such amendments, so that we do not go in the same direction so as not to double the amendments, we have given up on it, but we cannot give up on the wishes and needs of the people of Vojvodina to allow Vojvodina to develop as it does. I must, once again, remind you all that there are legal authorities and institutions in Vojvodina. The last one was chosen two years ago, in September 2000. I'm really sorry that as many of you as you are out there, you might be louder there, but unfortunately, it's what it is now. Let us not compare Vrbas and Valjevo. Let's mention Kovin and some town. Kovin, the south of Banata, which is underdeveloped, which needs to be helped and which province can develop. I expect that we will have support, that this amendment will come to the understanding of the majority in this assembly and that the adoption of this amendment will be passed and the law in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26556	Right to the replica, MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26557	Mr. Djuraskovic, let me inform you, you live in the country of Serbia, and while you do politics, we do household business. You have no right to a replica. You sat here for free. This is Serbia under one, our household approach implies that funds are being spent rationally, and it is certainly much more rational to spend funds when it is being watched across Serbia. We respect the autonomy of Vojvodina, because of the specificity of the multinational environment, the fields of culture, science, etc., but much better plans are being made when looking at the whole of Serbia's system. Hitler worked on the system to divide and rule, and the Republic of Serbia will only do household business if it develops an energy system, a forest land system and a water management system at the level of the entire territory. You can't catch a fish on the left bank to say sorry, you're from the right bank, so I'm gonna let you go. The fact that you're making artificial divisions in this country, the citizens of Serbia will get their heads kicked off. So, this amendment has a domestic direction of thinking, that the money acquired on the whole of the territory of the Republic of Serbia is optimally distributed, and that in each part of the Republic of Serbia there is sufficient modality for development. Your separatism is going in a completely different direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26558	National MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic submitted to the 28th amendment. The word is made by MP Milos Todorovic, representative of the amendment applicants to Article 28. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26559	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the Assembly Club of the Soviet Union in Article 28. Position 3 suggests that the figure 5% be replaced by 20%. We are not satisfied with the government's reasoning, because the government has stated that the use of funds is made of compensation, primarily by the principle of the territory in which these funds are collected. So you didn't deny it, and you didn't say 5% wasn't enough, you said it was public income, so that's not a very satisfactory explanation. I have to draw your attention to this percentage, since exploitations are likely to be the subject of concession and will be the subject of concession. We in Lazarevec have an example of the inhabited town of Vreoci, where exploitations have polluted the environment so much that it has become simply amazing to live there. I think these people should be given that percentage that we suggested as a member of the Soviet Union. Believe it won't be too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26560	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic, Milos Todorovic and Milos Lukic. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, there isn't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Representative of the Government adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. A group of MPs from the National Socialists Group tabled an amendment proposing that members 34 be sent a new section with members 34a, 34b and 34v. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26561	Ladies and gentlemen, this is really the last amendment I'm explaining, but I believe you'll understand from the content of the explanation why there is and how I'm keeping you in this room for another three minutes. It's about a specific B.O.T. projects, which means: build, manage and return the owner to management. These projects are different. I've got 11 or 12 guys in my book. It is certain that every specific B.O.T. The project also requires some of its specific types of contract. It is amazing that the legislator allowed himself to delete members 32, 33, and 34 from the existing Law on concessions, which had just gone to what I was just talking about, to household business. It is certain that all contracts are specific to themselves. But the citizens of Serbia, through this Parliament and these MPs, have the obligation that the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the executive body of this assembly, write down what of the minimum elements of the treaty must be found in a concession contract, in order to do domestic business and protect the interests of Serbian citizens, to at all come up with any concession of compensation that hopefully will be used for projects of interest for Serbia, and when it is of interest to Serbia, it is behind the Shumadi and any region of the country. So, we are asking this amendment to restore the definition of mutual relations in the contract, to return certain essential elements from the content of the contract: which are the contractual parties, the subject of a contract with a description of the project, whether there is a transfer of technology, sources and conditions of funding, construction, phase of preparedness, release into operation, as it seems, of an extension of individual deadlines, the obligation to engage domestic subcontractors. Why is the concession arrangement interesting? We don't need a penny concession fee, but if we get out of $400 million on a road economy project 70% of the capital goes to our construction and hires 28 industrial branches that support construction, we're done. We need concessions and there is no speech, here I support Minister Pitic of all strength. It must be prescribed by this congregation, and when it is prescribed, it has done its work. Then that's what the government should do. Don't make it back to the Assembly now that the government is working, with a four-month deadline. You will not have any large consortium, which has 100, 200, 300, 400 million operational capital at your disposal, waiting four months for the Assembly to agree whether or not it supports anything. So we ask you to accept the amendment and enter into the legal project to define the minimum essential elements of the contract, of course with the knowledge that all contracts are unique to themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26562	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has a minister of economic ties with abroad, Mr. Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't answer, but I always respond when Mr. Ivkovic talks about household business. Having in mind that I somehow feel that I have a reputation, I still need to say that this law, which is proposed by the Government, is precisely in the spirit of domestic business and differs by certain norms compared to what was given in the previous law. I will try to show these three members spoken of by my colleague Ivkovic (Art. 32, 33 and 34) that there is just a serious potential legal gap in the previous law on the basis of which non-domestic business can happen and that we wanted to remove this law. What does the proposal for a new law say? He says the concession within the meaning of this law is also a B.O.T. concession. the system, including all forms of this system. In other words, all forms of B.O.T. the systems are automatically applied to the provisions of this law, thus establishing a high level of legal certainty for the achievement of all forms of B.O.T. concessions that are very important. I've seen Mr. Ivkovic have a book he's using, where he certainly writes what it all includes. In other words, compared to what the previous law said, he defined one type of B.O.T system in a way that has a kind of restrictiveness in his spirit. When concessions that are not covered by the previous law occur, interpreting that there is a legal gap, we will have a situation to make certain forms of contracts that are concessions and do not fall under the law. That's not what we wanted to happen. We wanted to be housewives and all forms of B.O.T. the system to include and then by contract, and I said that the type model of the contract, according to the concession act, adequately varies the agreement of the parties precisely according to the different forms of B.O.T. The system. I will gladly, Mr. Ivkovic, not to waste any time per member, to point out that these members are not in the spirit of domestic business and that you will surely agree that these new proposals are going in this new spirit.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26564	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdja Popovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Representative of the Government adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milorad Stanulov has tabled an amendment proposing that a new chapter VIII and Article 38a be added after Chapter VII and Article 38a. The government and the committees in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Stanulov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26565	Dear Mrs Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, my amendment says that after Chapter VII - Privileges and Article 38, a new chapter VIII - Reporting on the application of the law and a new member of 38a, which reads: "The Serbian Parliament, at least once a year, is considering a report on the application of the law that forms and delivers the Government of the Republic of Serbia". In the light of the draft law, it is stated that the reason for the adoption of this law is to create clear and modern conditions for investment in goods in general use and activity of general interest, and in particular investment in public infrastructure, in order to improve the efficiency of public services, improve the quality of services and their availability to every citizen. I believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is not only a lawmaker, but that MPs as elected representatives of Serbian citizens must have the opportunity to consider a report on the application of this law, especially because of its importance to all citizens. I therefore propose this amendment that the Serbian Parliament at least once a year consider the government's report on the application of the concession law. The elements for this report are contained in concession agreements signed by the Government, in addition to concessionaries, on behalf of and at the expense of the Republic. I believe the government's argument of not accepting this amendment is not worthy of the government and your ministry. Fellow MPs, we know that the government of the Republic of Serbia reports its work once a year. My amendment refers to a report on the application of the concession law, which would represent an instrument of control in this important area by parliament, which the government appears to be not prepared for. The Government's remarks on the wording of the amendments could be overcome by legal-technical regulation of the amendments. I believe that the government has no reason to avoid submitting such a report, but rather that its interest is to publicly consider the results of the application of the concession law. Also, I believe that this amendment has already been adopted in the spirit of an amendment to Article 14. on the appointment of one member of the tender commission by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and shared responsibility for the area of concessions with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I call upon the Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26566	People's MP Branislav Ivkovic, president of the MP group National Socialists, came forward; then, MP Tomislav Nikolic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26567	By supporting the amendment of Mr. Stanulov's MP, I would like to point out that quite enough involvement of the Assembly is when a quality law is passed precisely in one year's examination of the results achieved in the field of concession activities, especially as the public process is foreseen, means a public tender, it is publicly announced, unfortunately in official votes from the provinces, local state administrations, to the common state. It is also made public in an international magazine. So any one of us can get any information tomorrow, stop for this pay phone and say what he thinks. Enough is the assembly's engagement in exactly what Mr. Stanulov suggested. The Serbian government is due here once a year to provide a review of its engagements. A far better solution than to consider each concession separately. Such a process in no European country, we checked in the meantime, does not line up. In no European country does the congregation do it! That's what the government that the assembly has chosen, and that assembly can change that government. One more thing, Mr. Pitic, is that you in law specify the minimum number of provisions that must be in the contract, and the other one when you write it as a minister and share it. The law is the law, and your wishes are your wishes. I have no doubt that you have good intentions. However, it is important in the law to protect the interests of Serbian citizens, and we are in charge of this, there are minimum provisions that must appear in every law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26568	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26569	I would just like to draw attention to both the MPs and the public that the government has acted very cynically towards this amendment by the MP. It was only now that I realized that it was actually the MP from the parliamentary group who supported the government. Since this government depends on each individual MP in this room, I am surprised that she dared to respond with such insubordination to the amendment of the MP who supports her, namely the People's MP Stanulov. But that looks like a minister who's just seemingly silent, which I've already said. National MP Stanulov, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the separation of branches of government, has proposed an amendment, and I admit the truth to an unfailingly engaged but see what was the proposaler's wish, under which the government is required once a year to submit a report on concessions to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that the National Assembly can consider the report. The government in three parts made up the answer. All three acts are truly humiliating for whoever signed behind this opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Number one, which is most unacceptable for us, says why the government should report once a year on concessions when it reports to the National Assembly once a year on its work. Here, for the third year, this government is pushing through Serbia: when did you report your work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Neither are you, nor will you. Because you maintain various combinations in the National Assembly, and only you boast of what you will not, it would be much better if you boast of what you will. You boast of what you have destroyed, and I would like you to boast of what you have built. The second part of the answer says: how does the MP make us submit a report on the application of the law, so it turns out he's looking for a report on the application of all laws that are in legal traffic. How rude and cynical! Third; the Serbian Parliament's formulation is not adequate, given that the text must state the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All in order to avoid the report submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Under this cynical explanation, he signed, and who else would, Žarko Korać. (President: Time. ) Now that I am not going to answer again, that I am not giving you a chance to satisfy myself in the congregation benches, this is the only bill of law in this assembly that has no criminal provision. I'm really surprised, is it possible that we don't have any criminal provisions in the concession law? Is it possible there won't be any, and I'll tell you one example?- I'm sorry. If a concessionary finds items of exceptional value and doesn't hand them over to the Republic of Serbia, how will he be punished? That's not true! And if it were applied by another law, then the second law would also provide for it to return the case to the Republic of Serbia. If it is applied by another law, why did it enter as an obligation in this bill? No obligation in any bill can pass without sanctions if it is not carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26570	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26571	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, just a little patience, I think the interesting amendment that the government has rejected, and the SPS parliamentary group has asked him first and foremost to get an answer to the question - what will happen in the event that the concessionary, whom we have chosen under the procedure of the prescribed law, is twice in parallel not fulfilling his financial commitment to the Republic of Serbia, contrary to the contract? If we talked about why it is necessary to pass a law on concessions, why it is necessary to find strategic or other partners for concessionaries, then we need to understand the essence of this whole relationship, because nowhere in the law is said what is happening in such situations. We, I must admit, were in a dilemma whether we should put the amendment on Article 40 or perhaps even on Article 41 which speaks of the termination of the concession relationship. However, we have chosen to propose a new point 4) which says a concession relationship is being interrupted. We have a few situations here, and three are important. One is when human health is threatened, the other is when war is declared, the third is another reason, but the fourth is, in our opinion, very important, among other things, because we have present practice, for example. in privatisation. Well, please, we count the company to 5, 6, even 10 million euros and then, as a rule, we get the customer to give up on it, sacrifice bail, and in the meantime we look forward to filling the budget with these funds. I'm asking -- what happens in a situation where someone doesn't settle their financial obligation; so we say -- it could also cause adverse consequences for citizens who use concessionaire services, if there's a interruption in the concession relationship?- I'm sorry. The essence of this amendment is that there is a mechanism that provides payment, and if someone does not comply with its financial obligation, a concession relationship may be interrupted in the sense that there is a serious reason to carry out its obligation, at least temporarily prohibiting him from using a concession case to an extent that will not compromise the general interest or interest of the citizens of the users of concessionary services. Please, that's what this is all about, in that part of this contract law, we don't have that situation precise, and maybe it's somewhere in the Western world and it's illogical to ask this question, but in our terms when nothing is certain and certain, we have to provide ourselves. So that's the essence of the amendment we've submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26572	No more logins for the word on this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic, Dragan Jovanovic, Milos Nesovic, Živanko Radovančev, Golub Rajic, Slobodan Tomović, Miomir Ilic, Dragan Todorovic, Slobodan Pavlovic, Jovan Todorovic and Zoran R. Angelkovic. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Representative of the Government accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the proposal for a concession law in particular, I ask if the proposing minister, the minister of economic relations with abroad, wants a word? He has the word of Minister Goran Pitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would say just a few sentences, because the debate certainly deserves in the end to say a few sentences about both the discussion itself and some of the essential principles that give new spirit to the law, which will try, if adopted and when it is adopted, to achieve the objectives of the promoters to speed up economic and general investment activity, as well as to the very character of the envisaged activities affect the improvement of the living standards of the population. There are several concession laws, such as the 1997 law, colleagues from the DSS talked about their bill, and in a large part of all the laws there is something that is the common denominator; these are the subject of concessions, the establishment of a concession firm, the period of duration, concession fees. Where laws differ, these are principles that give such or such a spirit to the law and include it in a group of laws that can be found in parallel-law systems of countries that we seek or among those that no longer reflect modern business traffic. This law belongs to this first category according to the principles laid down in this law, the principles of equal and fair treatment, freedom of competition, autonomy of will in the treaty and the establishment of the concept of contract at the very heart of the law, a legal institute that was rarely forgotten in this country. With the desire to define where the parties define their rights and obligations and retaining the principle that the contract has the character of the contract law for the parties, the proposing aims to ensure legal certainty and to define this area in a way that concessions are carried out uninterrupted and effectively. The second thing is (that's what we've talked about today) the question of how to get a concession. I think that, with all the comments made, one kind of consensus was made on the quality of the proposed way of obtaining a concession in the form of a public tender. I hope that will also ensure high legal certainty in that part. Due to the creation of the law itself: this law and the very nature of its adoption, since the work on it began more than a year and a half ago and has been in the congregation procedure for a long time, has nothing to do with the issue of Bor, other endangered areas and all of that - why these ends and how they have been impoverished in the last more than ten years. This law has arisen as a natural consequence of the need to regulate one matter that needs to be helped, I repeat again, the improved standard of life of the population and the acceleration of economic activity. On the other hand, it is certain that the citizens of Bora will also have the opportunity to use their natural resources in the way this law will provide them, to improve the quality of their lives, as well as in all other parts of Serbia. I hope there's no doubt about whether this law had any other illogical nature of creation besides this. I agree, even the best law in itself will not necessarily lead to a huge inflow of interested in concessions. There was talk of foreign investment. I must tell you that, on foreign investment, there have been significant changes since 5 October 2000, in conclusion with today's day. If only $60m was invested in Serbia in 2000, there was a shift to $160m in 2001, and in 2002 550m of foreign capital entered the country. Someone will say -- a little bit, someone will say -- quite enough, given the level of political and economic risk that we found on October 5th and how much we managed to lower that part of the political and economic risk. In that context, I think a valuable shift has been made in terms of reducing the risk of investing in our country, with announcements that this year we can expect a billion dollars, with the possibility, as Mr. Ivkovic said, that it would not be to share something that may not be so divided, by some principles that can be known to each of us, which is a matter of concession fees. It's really not a critical question in concessions. Because the question to launch certain activities and to use natural resources in such a way as to really put themselves into the function of using and improving, is the question of some other motives rather than primarily the primary budget of the state. If there is already revenue from concessions, the nature of this law is that they are good in the property of the Republic and that it is then the public income of the state. And, if it's the public income of the state -- so it's the state that needs to set a budget law on how to spend those funds. And then the proposal to execute, or the budget plan, comes here, is before you, and it is up to you to discuss whether the priorities that the government has identified are financing from what comes into the budget that provides the interests that the people of Serbia expect to feel through budget implementation. The Serbian government has defined itself as a very difficult decision, but only possible. It is a combination of a minimum attempt to develop infrastructure from the resources that exist; to support both transport infrastructure and energy, and to restructure companies that have tens of thousands of workers; and at the same time to oppose some of the principles of international organisations that would like to see as few outages from the budget as possible, which are increasingly difficult decisions on both sides. But, on the other hand, it was also defined that those benefits that must be financed, and for pensioners, for health care, for education, to ensure after many years in a regular manner and in a way that provides for real growth and for everyone in the process. Normally, I have to say one more thing that gives me pleasure, which is communication that existed during the work and preparation of this law, especially in the last months and these days and with parliamentary groups and with individual MPs. I want, personally, to thank all those who have made an effort and made their contribution to obtaining a critical review of this law and I hope that you will appreciate and accept what I say - that we too, on our part, have shown our openness and willingness to accept those amendments that we felt were making visible progress towards improving the spirit of the law. I also hope that it will be a practice related to most other laws. I am sure that this will continue in the laws that follow as part of the business environment that the Serbian government is seeking to achieve. that it organises and speeds up the legislative path; that this communication will continue and that it will continue to be successful. Normally, I hope that most votes will pass this law, i.e. I expect this very important law for the people of Serbia to be passed at the next session of the Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-02-20-0.u26574	I thank Mr. Secretary. I am concluding a review of the draft law in particular and setting a voting day -- Tuesday, February 25th, when we will also vote on tobacco law and others. After a session to elect federal MPs, we will approach the vote on the draft laws that we have already held. Bon appétit.
