ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on financial transactions. The mover wanted to draw attention to this parliament to adopt certain measures as an emergency procedure, and said the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure are contained first and foremost as soon as possible. Then, in the area of the expansion of tax releases, I'd say liberating, first of all, in the area of transport of securities of value. As the Proposer explains, these are the main reasons, this is precisely the subject of our amendment to delete Article 5. He's in contact with Article 7. The financial transaction tax law, which refers to point 2) of the sub-point (8), which says that the word "purchasing" is replaced by "purchasing", which means that there is a practical release of tax obligations, i.e. financial transaction taxes, and that is, in the secondary paper market. In the opinion of Serbian radicals, this is almost illogical, given that all other goods are repeatedly taxed on this tax and that secondary paper is released from financial transactions. The word "purchasing" should be deleted, or an entire member, as the bill itself speaks of the release of these taxes, which should be paid through financial transactions through banks. We don't know which banks are valid here. What is the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and what is a paper of value issued by the Republic of Serbia? This whole mix-up, which is present these days, about the National Bank, where Prime Minister and Dinkic, I don't know his real name now, whether he's in the National Bank of Yugoslavia or Serbia, is arguing whether the counterfeit was made at the National Bank of Yugoslavia or at the National Bank of Serbia, should be resolved before we can decide to release who and what. For these reasons, I propose that Article 5 be deleted and that it remain a valid member and points 2) of sub-point (8), and that, after establishing the legitimacy of the national banks, it will be possible to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29028	Does anyone else sign up for a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29029	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Article 5, states that tax exemption based on the purchase of securities of value, issued by the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Yugoslavia, relates to the transport of securities both on the primary and secondary markets. The amendment, which Mr Kesejic explained, requires that the current situation be maintained, i.e. that the financial transaction tax is not exempt from the transport of securities from value, i.e. only the first purchase, according to our amendment, should be exempt from paying this tax. The current proposal favours securities of value compared to other goods, especially goods of broad consumption, those basic provisions of life - bread, milk, meat, food for babies, medicines, etc., on which the tax on financial transactions is paid 10 times until it reaches the end of the consumer. The promoter did not convince us of the need to exempt from tax on financial transactions for the secondary market in food of value, nor did we benefit from the reasons in the bill nor in this House. We know he was away last week because of his trip to America, but we don't know where he is today. We've really put forth a lot of work on a whole set of tax laws. We cared to convince the minister of the need to accept certain amendments and, behold, until the vote itself, we will neither be able to hear in writing nor in oral form from the Government's representatives anything about these amendments, nor will we have the opportunity to hear his final word on all other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29030	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29031	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a total of four amendments to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Tax on Financial transactions for one single reason. The amendments to this law go in two directions: one is a reduction in the rate, it is positive and of course should be supported; the other goes in the direction that the accounting of taxes on financial transactions is in the future transferred to all taxpayers, to all legal and natural persons. In order to make it more clear to you what it is, in practice so far, while payment traffic was in the National Bank of Yugoslavia, i.e. Former SDK, the account was automatically conducted by the payer. Within the legal deadlines, these accounts were automatically emptyed and the inflow into the budget of that tax was continuous. The transition in a new way of business, as payment traffic is now being carried out by business banks, has kept that solution and the accounting of financial transaction taxes has been done so far by payers, therefore the business bank. The amendments proposed by this law now shifts the obligation from business banks to all taxpayers. This is, in my deep conviction, very irrational and will bring negative consequences to everyone, above all, a minor inflow of money into the budget. All taxpayers are not valid enough to pay taxes on financial transactions, because any changes that take place in the accounts are not subject to taxation. Therefore, the tax bill itself is not simple. On the other hand, because all taxpayers will not be able to calculate the tax properly, they will be automatically lower inflows into the budget. So the budget will be damaged. On the third hand, payers, and in this case now the business banks, of this job, collect a certain commission, and they will be damaged. So we're going into a change that won't do anyone any good. In addition, I would point out that, in my essence, the tax on financial transactions is a parafiscal category to be abolished. So, in any case, the tax will most likely be abolished at the end of this year. That's why I'm making these changes and changing the way he's reckoning and pointing to a certain budget account, I think it's completely irrational. Therefore, I have submitted four amendments to Articles 2, 6, 8 and 10, and all go in that direction to maintain the existing method of reckoning. Therefore, that the account and supply to the corresponding payment account of the budget continue to be done by payers, which are in this case the commercial banks. Finally, I would say that in addition to the arguments that something that is now operating by automation will be significantly complicated, it is that from the new year and by moving to the new accounting system, all taxpayers can open as many accounts as they want with business banks. So everybody's already got more bills, so it's completely irrational that everyone's counting on it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29032	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29033	She has submitted an amendment to Article 6 of the SRS that I am explaining. It amends and states in Article 6(2) of the Law proposal: "For financial transactions carried out in the current month, by the fifth day of the following month", and point 2) is deleted. Therefore, we are not asking this amendment to abolish the amount of tax on financial transactions, but to reduce the commission of banks where these transactions are carried out, given that these fees are often higher than the amount of the financial transaction tax itself. Thus, taxpayers will also have motive to pay their obligations regularly. The state will not be denied, and the job will be facilitated by the lower commission on business banks. So, both wolf sieve and sheep in number, and all satisfied, and I call upon the MPs to support this amendment to the SRS in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29034	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the proponent in the effects of the proposed measures, is aware that in 2003 the budget of the Republic of Serbia will be reduced by around 2.8 billion dinars due to a reduction in the rate of tax on financial transactions. We now have a single rate of 0.22%, although we are in the principle debate, and through discussion in particular, explaining the amendments reminded the Government of the necessity of abolishing this tax, because it lost its basic function, which is why it was introduced at the end of 1998. So far, the account of the financial transaction tax has been carried out by the payer, and these have been business banks that apparently unpreparedly welcomed the takeover of social accounting services. Now the proposer of this obligation to account for this tax is transferring from business banks to taxpayers to financial transactions. It obliges it to draw up once a month an application for a billing and paid tax on financial transactions. We believe that it is excessive, given that for all other taxes it is done quarterlyly, so once every three months and that tax duties on other taxes are often and a hundred times higher than taxes on financial transactions. By accepting this amendment, the SRS believes that unnecessary administration would be reduced, especially if we go in the sense that a taxpayer should be freed from unnecessary administration, given the amount of these taxes on financial transactions and that these are often symbolic amounts. A commitment like this to have to do it once a month and he has to do it, there's no logic in us, no foothold in the reasoning of this law. This was to be abolished until this tax which we expect will be abolished, to remain the obligation of business banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29036	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radivojčević. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29037	With this amendment, the SRS only wanted to draw attention to the promoter that not all changes are good and that this is one of the bad changes that can create a blockade and in such a bad solution, such as the tax on financial transactions. It's a kind of tax that's completely deviating from our legal system. It was introduced probably because of some urgency and the need to provide funds and as the only criterion for determining the material position and the economic power of the taxpayer was taken over by the state of funds on the jury account. So everything that happens with that jury account, every change is subject to taxation, and basically it's practically a state commission that can't be called that. I do not want to challenge this solution and the existence of this tax at all, since it is quite obvious that it is mixed, because it practically taxes whoever has funds on his giro account, and I suppose it is our desire to keep all the funds on the jury account, that the funds are not removed from the giro accounts, that they do not go into some gray flows of that means, but it is not good when money is reported as equivalent, in any change of goods to money or service to pay for it all in particular, so before it is already taxed on sales and goods and services. Of course, some future tax system can handle it very effectively. The ineffectiveness of this proposed solution is reflected in the fact that this law reduces the obligation of accounting and payment to the taxpayer, and in this way, practically, the proponent follows that of its basic thread under the Tax Procedure Act. However, the provisions of this law in this matter are inapplicable because they cause damage. And for what? If it was once the payer, or the PDO, and now the business banks, it is now completely illogical that the job is done by the owner of those funds that gives the payment order, a team before he has to make the calculation, he has to go back to the tax administration, to record all the monthly obligations, and he has very short deadlines and additional jobs to do; in addition, this Article 8 provides for a three-month reporting obligation, and in some time periods that are completely inappropriate. So we're asking the amendment to change that deadline, of course, to realize that this is not a good solution either. We would like to warn the promoter that this change has unnecessarily made a major administration, the revenues on the basis of this tax are modest, because I hope that you have had the opportunity to hear, for several days these three-month taxes, i.e. sales tax accounts, are much more and more companies that have traffic zero, are simply becoming more and more stopped every day, because there are no funds or jobs, and there is no money in future users, so that economic life is at rest, and unnecessaryly increasing administration and the practical purpose of this change will be which may and will not increase income based on this tax, but will likely increase based on penalties for failure to comply with obligations under this law. We need to know that there are economic operators who have never done this job, nor are they able to do this job today, and it is not good for us to put this law in practice and pay traffic and our economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29038	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radivojčević. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that all taxpayers should settle their obligations towards the state and that the state is taxing its obligations to citizens, i.e. from affecting businesses and citizens, and the question is whether the tax policy that the Serbian government is leading corresponds to the power of economic operators and the power of citizens. As far as this law on financial transactions is concerned, the revenues from this law are not great, with this proposal to amend and supplement the law and the scales are reduced to 0.22% per financial transaction, and we have a promise from the legislator of this law, by the resolute minister, that soon the law will be abolished, or that obligation will be abolished, so the question arises why it has resorted to amendments and additions to this law if the proposal is to abolish this law. The SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 10. A bill in that direction does not punish those who do not pay the tax prescribed by this law. The state has the mechanisms that, if someone does not pay the tax, they are forced to pay the tax, which means they are forced to pay. If Article 12 remains as suggested by the Proposer, we can come to the situation that the taxpayers will pay the higher amounts in the state budget by penalties, or punishment, because the range of fines for those who do not account and do not pay the tax prescribed by this law, as set out in the Bill, range from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars. If someone has a turnover during the month, or a payment of 1,000 dinars, their obligation to the state is 2,200 dinars, 1% of the million is 10,000, so 0.22% is 2,200 dinars. If, in any event, a jury account has no money to settle these obligations, or to pay taxes, the state can punish it in the range of two to two hundred thousand dinars. So the minimum amount of fines is identical to almost tax liabilities. One who can't, and it will happen, and it happens that he can't settle his obligation to the state in terms of taxes, he'll be in a situation where he'll have to pay a much bigger penalty than his tax liability. Given the level of tax, it is certain that there will be no companies, those businesses that will deliberately not pay the tax. There may be a non-payment of this tax for two reasons: that the debtor does not have the means of the jury account to settle this tax obligation or is unable to account for the tax, since, according to previous legal solutions, this job has worked, or has so far been done by the PDO, i.e. business banks upon the transfer of payment traffic to a business bank. Many companies are not and will not be able to make this technical part of the tax, i.e. the business of paying taxes, so I believe that this member would have to be changed and that this part "and not pay the tax prescribed by this law".
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29040	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29041	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 changes the existing Article 12, although the penalties remain the same, they are from 2,000 to 200,000 dinars, but they lose any sense if such a proposal is accepted by a member of the 12th law, because now it is an obligation to account and pay this tax on financial transactions to a taxpayer, and not as it has been to a business bank that was a payer. So when we get to this member, we see what the proposer has led to a proposal to amend and supplement this law. Business banks should have freed these obligations and these responsibilities and transferred them all to the taxpayer. These are very small amounts of taxes. They're being calculated for a month, and we've already said on several occasions that they don't cross a few hundred dinars, or worse still, the same penalty is being threatened by a taxpayer who accounts for taxes under the law, but doesn't pay it in time, because he didn't have funds in his account. Today, it is not unusual and unusual for business operators to have no money in their accounts for days, as a result of the country's overall economic policy, and I heard in case a major shipping company in Belgrade was blocked because of 0.01 dinars, and the payment obligation was practically some service to a lawyer for some procedure that was in front of the court. So they didn't even have the notice that they were supposed to pay for it. They took that money off by automatism and the company got into that minus 0.01 dinar and was in the blockade. Here, and our congregation account was blocked last week and we see what the state of the state budget is without talking about companies. Salary who knows if we're going to get it by Easter, and we'll probably have problems with the budget's financial resources all year round, which we talked about when we were planning the budget, starting in 2001, and we're going to say, thinking that we should cultivate a taxpayer and enable him to earn for himself and for the workers, pay and all those obligations he has to the state so that the state can service his debts to the population. Unfortunately, sheep only cut their hair once, and that's what our government didn't want to understand when she was planning this year's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29042	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. This is the last amendment. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, and the proposer's representative is not present and cannot give the final word, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to determine if we have the quorum to decide. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 158, paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda of this session be put on the agenda - Proposals for termination of the function, selection, appointment and resolution of the holders of judicial functions. I am putting on the vote of the Committee on Justice and Administration's proposal to put the agenda of this session on the agenda - proposals for termination of functions, choices, appointments and resolution of judicial officials. For 116, against 35, a abstentioned one, was not voted 32, a total of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: - THE PROPOSAL FOR FINISHMENT OF FUNCTIONS, THE CHOICE, THE NAME OF THE NAME AND THE DISCUSING OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS For this point of the agenda, you have received the following proposals: Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the role of the Republic of Public Prosecutor, the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Municipal Court in Kanjiža (proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration), the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Fourth Municipal Court of Justice in Belgrade, which has brought the Council on the issues of Judiciary of the President of the Court of Justice, which has tabled the Council on the issues of Justice, as well as a proposal for the selection of the Republic of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs' groups to submit the lists with an application for this agenda item. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Does the proposal's representative, Professor Dragore Hiber, the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29043	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few formal legal explanations. The Committee on Justice and Administration forwarded proposals to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which were sent to him by authorised applicants, in accordance with the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors. According to the Law on Judges, the Council of Justice has proposed a resolution to the National Assembly on the personal request of the individual presidents of the courts, whose list you received and since the resignations cannot be discussed, the Committee for Justice forwarded these proposals to the National Assembly. The government of the Republic of Serbia forwarded a proposal to the National Assembly to resolve the functions of the Republic Public Prosecutor at the personal request of the Republic Public Prosecutor Sinisa Simic and the Committee for Justice forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly. The Council for Justice Administration Affairs also sent proposals to the National Assembly to appoint the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, the President of the District Court in Belgrade, the President of the District Court in Novi Sad, the President of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, the President of the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar and the President of the City Court in Alibunar. The Justice and Management Committee supported these proposals, except for the proposal to appoint the president of the Municipal Court in Alibunar. The government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the law, has sent a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the name of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Djordje Ostojic. The Committee for Justice and Management supported this proposal and forwarded it to the National Assembly. Let me conclude in the end that, in relation to all these motions for resolution and appointment, the procedures are fully respected by the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29044	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29045	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, I had no intention of talking about this agenda point at all, since it was suddenly placed on the Assembly's agenda and suddenly we are talking about it and we are deciding, but I still could not, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, go over what stands to justify the termination of Serbia's Supreme Court President, what Mrs Leposava Karamarkovic wrote. I think we need to comment on that and find out, if possible, what's behind this requirement. Namely, the SPS did not vote for Mrs Karamarkovic's election as Serbian Supreme Court President. We didn't vote against either, because we had nothing against a woman, a respected lawyer, for any reason, and we felt quite logical to simply show that we had nothing against it, but it wasn't on our proposal. I think her argument provides answers to many questions about the relationship between the executive and the judicial authorities. In fact, Mrs Karamarkovic says: "I am notifying the Council for the Issues of the Judicial Administration that due to the harsh political and media pressures, I have been prevented from carrying out my duties as Supreme Court President. That's why I leave the judiciary with bitterness and regret, in which I have invested all my knowledge and abilities." Political and media pressure on the judiciary, the fact is, it's been going on for months now, and please, before I say a few more words about this, it doesn't occur to anyone that eventually this or that kind of exposure is going on -- if you're against the proposal, you're against what's currently being done by the government. In fact, we also want this fight against crime to end, to be as effective as possible, to have criminals and criminals caught, punished and to have the judiciary do its job. But I remind you, Mrs Karamarkovic was elected first among the best, as a high-quality judge, a man, a lawyer, etc., but the fact that there were really months of pressure on the work of the Supreme Court, that by the representative of the executive authority there was absolute interference in the work of the judiciary, that there were comments of judicial decisions, that there were public threats, these public attacks were by representatives of the executive authority for a long time, they were absolutely media supported, and this also shows the intention of the executive authorities to put the judiciary absolutely into office. It wasn't enough that it was done, it seems to me several times, a change in the holders of judicial functions, but apparently through the Supreme Court, the most judicial instance in this country, it wants to establish absolute control. To remind you, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero, because of her long language and clear attitude, was removed from the District Court, so she was transferred to the Supreme Court, and this resignation, the reluctance of Mrs Karamarkovic, shows that she absolutely does not do so willingly, but probably as a man, exposed to this kind of pressure, does something she considers to be the most logical move. I must say that the formulation -- political pressure, has its own meaning, is behind it absolutely DOS. I do not believe that because of the political pressure of any opposition party, Mrs Karamarkovic would have decided on such a thing, because the opposition parties did not vote and I do not think this is good for the judiciary. Whether the judiciary will be fine only when it is fully placed under DOS control or doing what DOS considers necessary; I think it is not good for the judiciary and I think it is not good for Serbia. I don't think it's going to be good for the citizens and I just think that this thing that the argument itself shows is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29046	Are any of the other representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? There is a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have received a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court in a number of courts in the Republic of Serbia. Sonja Brkic, V.D., is elected president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, following Leposava Karamarkovic's unrevocable resignation, for which SRS MPs did not vote at the moment of her election, because she did not meet the basic conditions, not as far as her expertise is concerned, possibly, but rather those basic conditions, because she was currently not working in the judiciary, and the law imposed it. Then, for the President of the District Court in Novi Sad, Slobodan Nadrljanski is elected, Anta Boskovic, V.d., as the President of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. The President of the Fourth Municipal Court; for any of the proposed candidates, we have no basic data in the proposal, which is usually the case, so there is nothing more we can do about their expertise or what they've been up to now and how these jobs have been done or said. We assume that Baćović is Radoslav, V.D. The president of the District Court in Belgrade, and this post was given thanks to his engagement in the Election Commission, as was the case before, but we are particularly appalled by the decision to suspend the post of President of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, not because Djorđa Mirkovic has ceased this duty, but because of the arguments that the Council for the Issue of the Judicial Administration has given us here as a proposal. It states that the Council has identified certain irregularities in the work of the President of the Fourth Municipal Court and then lists the illegal payment of the court fee, which is carried out by an unauthorized person in cash, on the basis of an internal receipt, which is handed over at the fee to the taxpayer, and the proof of the payments made, in which way the registration and control of the fee is completely disabled, contrary to the instructions of the Ministry of Justice and the Law on Public Revenue and Costs. Let's not argue that this is one form of unconscious work, whether it's for resolution or not, it could be the subject of debate. Then, in court, there are more cases than two years of age, which do not have priority and continuity, and some of these examples are cited. That's probably the case in every court. This is no special situation. In certain cases, according to a proposal by the creditors, in which the debtor of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia was actually allowed to carry out the execution, although there was no executive document, although the Ministry of Justice, on a timely basis, paid the debt on behalf of the trustee's compensation. The number of cases in question is listed and therefore the Council for the Issues of the Judicial Administration, held on 18 April this year, after considering the case list, has found that there is an illegal act by the President of the Fourth Municipal Court, which they say is an adequate notion of unprofessional and unwitting business of Djorge Mirkovic, which has made the conditions for a resolution decision. The real reason why the promoter did not tell us here, and this is our only objection, because the entire public knows that it is a release from Dejan Milenkovic's detention, as the minister of justice explained in the means of public information, at 17.00 p.m., so out of the court's office; and in fact, it is common that at any time of the day it is decided by appeal, if it is a matter of detention, and then it was possible, the deadline was set and calculated in hours. So, the deadline was 48 hours and it's normal that the deadline for appeal and decision-making is in classes that can also be afternoon. That was normal. The promoter probably couldn't write us that it was the reason for the resolution, but the whole public knows it was just a release from Dejan Milenkovic's custody, and that is why Gjorge Mirkovic had to be removed. The government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to elect Đorđe Ostojic, the current V.D. The Republic Public Prosecutor. As a day, no further explanation is needed, nor should we know any other generalities of this proposed candidate, with the proposal in the material there is nothing on Gjorge Ostojic. Given that he was elected a public prosecutor's office this year, at the time of his emergency, that in 2001 he became head of the SUP, in 2003, acting as district attorney and now district attorney, and that the days of working experience in the prosecutor's office are not available, it is enough for us to plead against all these proposals, deeming them inconclusive and that the government and the promoters are leading the policy of negative selection, which will and how it will affect the work and the prosecution and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29048	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29049	The DSS has always insisted, during any changes in the area of justice and the prosecution, that this is a very sensitive issue, and that there should be changes in human resources with a greater amount of attention than in other areas. We were also against the appointment of prosecutor Sinisa Simic by emergency procedure. We weren't against the man, but we were against that way. We've always been against being replaced without discussing someone's responsibility and work. We are here to discuss the appointment of a new prosecutor, and we do not have a report on the work of Sinisha Simic, the replaced prosecutor, or he is resolved or resolved on a personal request, and in essence he is against the constitutional decision V.D. The President of the State has been removed from the seat of the Republic Public Prosecutor; this is, in our opinion, deeply against the constitution, because there is no authority to do so, nor is the state of emergency suspending the Parliament's right to appoint and dismiss public prosecutors. We also raised these objections during the debate on a set of judicial laws, especially when it came to changing the way public prosecutors were appointed, i.e. the deputy public prosecutors. We felt that the Assembly had the exclusive right to discuss appointments, work and resolution. We don't even discuss resolution and resignation here, and we should also report on the work of the prosecutor this assembly has appointed. I understand that we have not discussed the work of some prosecutors who have been appointed by the previous government, but we need to discuss the work of prosecutors appointed by this assembly. I think that would be the most complete, to see who named Sarajlic in that place last December and if we need to discuss it. Why didn't he take care of these potential relationships if he had them? Which is the responsibility of the Minister himself, because he sits in that High Council of Justice. What is the responsibility of the Republic Prosecutor himself, who has proposed the appointment of Sarajlic as deputy prosecutor. It's definitely the things we have to discuss here. It cannot be passed over some very large pads or errors that occurred in the previous period. If we do so, we will never get to a system that will be able to have those three basic functions of democratic institutions, which is selectivity, responsibility and exchangeability. We never discuss responsibility here, we never discuss the work of any organ we replace. The public prosecutor, especially the Republic, is very important and we can say that, besides some other authorities, he falls within the most important position of protecting the public order, the social interest, just because he prosecutes the perpetrators of crimes. Special attention here is important, especially because of the possibility of making a mistake in selecting prosecutors, as was the case, it is now obvious, Mr Sarajlic, the resolved deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor. So I understand that the appointments by emergency procedure are likely due to today's suspension of the state of emergency, including the appointment of the Republic Public Prosecutor. It can or can't do it, but for us, it's not a rational explanation. It is not an explanation that the state of emergency is used to cover up what was done in the previous period and whose responsibility is for what was done in the previous period. Of course someone has to be responsible. Is it Sinisa Simic, whether these are other members of the High Council of Justice or perhaps some other service that Siniši Simic needed to inform on Sarajlic and everything that means some previous verification of all who are appointed to such important functions. We haven't talked about it here, nor is there any intention to discuss these important issues here. In my opinion, that's a big problem. As we do now, we warn that such important decisions cannot be made by an urgent procedure. About Mr. Ostojic, who is now proposed for the Republic Public Prosecutor, I can say that we have not heard anything wrong. On the contrary, everything says that this is a quality man who has done his job extremely well both as a deputy municipal prosecutor and as a SUP chief in Novi Sad. It is obvious that this man, if there is a willingness to talk here, is likely to get the support of the greatest part of the MPs in this assembly. It is also disputed that all this is done by emergency procedure, without any possibility of the public and MPs getting to know Mr. Ostojic, who he, what he did, how he did. These are very important things to us, because the prosecutor doesn't change every day. A state that changes prosecutors every day is not a serious state. It is therefore important that in the procedure of the appointment of the Republic Public Prosecutor, on whom much depends afterwards in the Prosecutor's Office, since it has a considerable impact on the appointment of deputy public prosecutors, it must be possible to talk to him and to meet all MPs and the public with Mr Ostojic. The only thing he leaves behind and throws a shadow at all this, which is that we changed the law to bring him in line with the internship and all that Mr. Ostojić has. We reduced the number of years of employment to six, so that Mr Ostojic could formally be a candidate for the Republic Public Prosecutor, not in an emergency, but in a regular state. That's the only question. It is obvious that the parliamentary majority has taken responsibility for changing the law to bring it into line with Mr Ostojic's qualifications and insisting on the urgent procedure, as well as on Mr Simic's point of view, that this should be carried out. The DSS believes that Mr Simic needs to be heard specifically. It is also a disputed appointment of Moise Kostic as head of the municipal court in Alibunar. I fully agree with the Committee's position, which did not accept the appointment of Kostic as head of the Municipal Court in Alibunar, and I would also ask for a special vote on the case. That man was a party aidman, the last president of the Communist Alliance Committee in Alibunar. According to some, who have completed various kumroving schools, it may be a qualification to vote for it and support it. We believe that this should not be a special qualification, that the judges and particularly the presidents of the courts of that time were a little more party than legal, more sometimes they saw the Committee's position and it was almost incompatible then for someone to be on the committee, the chairman of the committee, and for him to be a judge. This gentleman was it. Not getting into the reports of his work and everything, but it's incompatible that the judge is involved in politics. Mr. Kostic was obviously involved and has a tendency to do so now. During various campaigns in the last 10 years, he appeared as a political activist. We will support the position of the Committee for Justice and Management so that Mr Moise Kostic is not elected and that Mr. Djordj Stojic is voted apart from other appointments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29050	Is anyone else applying for a word from the president, or a representative of the parliamentary groups? No, I don't. We move to debate according to the application for the word of the MPs of the people. There are only two applications. I refused to report to the SRS parliamentary group because they failed to submit it in good time. They come out of the O.R., then they come in whenever they want. There is a Article 89 that says that applications have been filed since the start of the search. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29051	Madam Chairman, there are rules of good behavior. You don't need to shake hands at all, argue with me, show food, anger. The hate speech should not be unique to one parliament, especially not to the kind of parliament you stand for. So when you treat me...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29052	Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured? Don't talk to me about good behavior.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29053	Please, with all due respect as a MP, invite me and give me the opportunity to go out for a pay phone, because I don't think I'm giving you any cause for any debate. I went out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 89(4), which states to apply for a word with the order of Members of Parliament to be submitted by MPs and MPs, who are not members of parliamentary groups in writing until the opening of the search. This is clear from our practice in parliament so far, always the representative of the promoter starts the debate and only after that we have the opportunity to submit applications for discussion, of course, if the agenda is not given in advance, as was the former custom, but this is how the emergency procedure gets the material, and it is incomplete, we do not have an authorised promoter, Mr Batic is not in the hall. So how do you think you get a word in before Hibber comes out for a pay phone? It's practically physically impossible. I was at the pay phone, and I didn't have time to sign an application for a word, which was already put together in the meantime. But you also have to respect that it is only put to an extremely urgent procedure as a point of the agenda of choice and the appointment of certain officials. This is in Article 158(3). During the session of the National Assembly, an emergency procedure can be put on the agenda. So we need to look at the material, get to know it, and see which of the members of our parliamentary group will speak. You should respect this situation, given that we are really working in a state of emergency, we have a permanent agenda and an emergency session schedule, and you are making it impossible for us to do our best in our work. Now, when you put this item on the tables for three minutes before you put this item on the agenda, we really couldn't get it to you before Dragore Hiber went out for the pay phone. It's up to you to decide what you want. If you do not give MPs the opportunity to speak, it means that you deny them their right, and the reason for that is also the fear of what you can possibly hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29054	I've already decided, I won't accept your application for a word. You had time. Proposer representative, the chairman of the Committee on Justice, Dragor Hiber, had an opening statement and after that, MP Zarko Obradovic, chairman of the SPS parliamentary group, had a presentation, you were not present. You cannot use rights only when it suits you, there are certain obligations, the Rules of Procedure must be respected. I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to a debate according to the application for word. There is a word from MP Branko Pavlovic, and the next one registered for the word is MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a few things to discuss today, when we talk about these proposals. It's one thing that's no longer in the justice system. First of all, I think of Mrs. Leposava Karamarkovic and Mr. Gjorge Mirkovic. The second question is who are we proposing for judicial and prosecutorial functions and how. The third is something about the overall method of our work. We're talking about changing regulations, personnel, above all, so we can deal with crime, corruption and some other pathological problems in society. What we're doing has nothing to do with fighting crime. So there's a delusion here that the proposed changes make things better, that makes it a better fight against crime. That's not true. It wasn't true in a package of those laws that were passed, nor in these proposals. Okay, with the proposal to resolve Mrs Karamarkovic, it's on personal request, but let's see under what conditions. The very explanation shows under what conditions. Mr. Gjorge Mirkovic's solution is a typical example of pressure on the judiciary. You have in your mind, one by one, things that don't stand at all as a possible reason for a court president to be resolved. You can do it by force, but in real understanding, no. When someone says they can pay a tax and get a receipt, it's easier for the party. Now it's only a matter of continuing to transfer that money to the budget. Nobody argues that money's in the budget. What does that have to do with our fight against corruption and crime? Nothing. What kind of terrible thing is that? It's nothing. It's better and easier for parties. In many courts it was applied and proved to be much better. In these situations where you are told that there are some errors in executive procedures, so first the judge who handled these cases must be resolved, if it is a mistake at all. We don't have any legal cure here, so I don't know what happened. Therefore, the examination of legal proceedings in a specific case is related to the person who tried in that case or to the decision of the High Court. The ministry can't possibly appreciate whether it's right or wrong, whether or not it should, so the whole story is completely constructed. I'm really sorry about Mr. Mirkovic. If you ask me, he's completely on the justice of God come under attack for quite another reason, not those who are cited. I've got a little time. Whom do we propose, what do we propose and will that be better? It won't get any better. So when you get into a situation to improve something in the system -- we definitely inherited a justice system that's not good, no doubt -- then you get into a situation to change something in it. You find excellent, good, solid, lazy, corrupt, various others, judges to the bottom. When you guys pull out people who aren't the top and put them on top, you've ruined the system because they don't want to work and they don't believe you. They've waited 10 years for someone to come along and say, "I appreciate the expertise, the value, the intelligence, the tenacity." Then you pull someone who's not that and put him in charge. He says I won't work and I won't do my best. What does that mean? This means this: Mrs Sonja Brkic was never the judge of the district court in her career, except for the election of the district court's president. It's already been a very big leap from a long-standing municipal court judge to a district court president; it's theoretically possible, but in exceptional cases. That's what I supported back then, a quality frame, but that's maximum. You are now putting a person who has never actually been a judge of the district court in his career, to be judge of the Supreme Court and immediately president of that court. It can't. By such a procedure you ruin the system, you think it is possible to solve problems by some sort of human resources solution, by some other criteria, by similarity; it is not possible. It was all over his head when the former republican prosecutor, Mr Simic, was stationed. He's a good, honest man, but he didn't have the capacity to perform that function. Then, when you were told, you said, "Let it be important that we have some kind of political agreement." It's not worth it, it can't score. You have Mr. Baćovic as the president of the Belgrade District Court. Please, on what grounds does he recommend himself to us as a good candidate? The man was about a year old president of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, and he spent most of his time as RIK president. That RIK was never working up there. That's RIK's worst work. Before becoming President of the Fifth Municipal Court, take his data in the last two years before the election, before we arrive at power, the worst results and the most unsuspecting judge. Look at the statistics and you'll see: the man with the worst results. Then someone who hasn't been a district court judge in days you're setting him up as the president of the county court. It can't. All the best in that county court will go to reverse, or they will work as hard as this government has to go through, and they will no longer think about it. You don't interfere with the best in these courts to really go and do their best. It's not worth it, you had a situation with that judge that a man was in custody. This is where you settle a man for a court cab, because they're charged with a receipt, not a receipt. The one you're proposing as President of the Belgrade District Court, the man in his case has been held in custody. It's like the right frame to solve our problems. It's not. Just one more sentence. I don't have the biographies of these others, but I know that Mr. Kurtovic Zlatan, I'm talking about Novi Pazar, until now he's been contentious and it's not by chance that he wasn't president, because there's been a great consultation and it's not a good solution. Now, in a state of emergency, something that was announced two years ago is actually being realized. So, the path we're going is still not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29056	The word has a People's MP, Pal Shandor, and no more reported for this item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29057	Dear colleagues, in order not to be misunderstood, it was a fine custom for us to get their biographies along with the names of the candidates. I think it's really a failure, because someone in three, five, ten years is going to ask us who you voted for. Maybe someone knows someone, when and where he was born, which school he finished, what he was doing so far, what parties he was a member of, etc. Of course, I have reason to believe most of whom I belong, that these people are good and that that's how it should be done. I'd like to get their biographies, so I can see what they wrote about themselves, about my past, so I can really have a calm conscience. I don't know who Kurtovic Zlatan is, I don't know who Kostic Moise is, and I'd like to see what man wrote about himself, how he qualified, who he is. I don't argue that it's the best, that it's good, that it's great, etc., but I guess it's worth the same application of the Rules of Procedure, because if their biography applies to the members of the Government, if in other cases where it doesn't say it's part of the procedure, what cost us to multiply their résumés and see who these people are, so before everyone knows everybody. That might convince us to vote for these people. So, I'm not, not to be misunderstood, against these people, but I am that we know exactly who they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29058	Since the lists are no longer signed up for the word, does anyone who did not take advantage of that right in article 89 want the word? Here's a word from MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29059	First of all, I'd like to say one more word about someone, let me say, a hickey that led to those judges who were almost elected in this assembly. Here I am talking about Zoran Ivosevic, Leposavi Karamarkovic, See Petrovic-Škero, as well as all the pressures on the judiciary that were and which probably caused us not to have the judiciary we want. Krasava Karamarkovic and everyone else, and their existence in those places, have been an obstacle to the fight against organised crime and their replacement should enable the fight against organised crime. I think that bringing these people into contact with these things is absolutely out of place and that these people in time behind us were founders of the Association of Judges of Serbia, societies that opposed Milosevic's changes in the judiciary, violent shifts, appointments in the judiciary, as they were. Mr. Vučetic, Ivosevic, Leposava Karamarkovic, these are the people who rebelled against it. Here we talked about their work, about the work of Leposava Karamarkovic, we didn't hear a word, and we should have. We haven't heard a word about Mr. Ivosevic's work, and we should have. We haven't heard a word about the work of Peteric-Skero. These things in my opinion are not in line with our intentions to build an independent and free judiciary, to build the institutions of states where they need to control each other, executive, legislative and judicial. We have a completely subjugated judicial authority, a government that is not immune to pressures, which is constantly under pressure, and in it were people of authority, who could start building an independent judiciary, who were just the most trampled and attacked. The shifts of Leposava Karamarkovic and Zoran Ivosevic should now serve as an example to those judges who may not have had the strength either under Milosevic, and will not have to stand up to the hacks of judges and violent changes in the judiciary. We believe that these are judges who have done their job with honor, who have fought honorably for the changes that we have all come to together. I think the relationship of this congregation to them is completely unacceptable, no one came out to say anything about these judges, how they did, what they did, just had to go differently. If we treat the staff that this assembly has almost accepted by acclaim, it does not bring us closer to democratic, parliamentary culture. The DSS also cannot accept the appointment of Baćovic as head of Belgrade's District Court. Is this a reward for him accepting Nebojsa Pavkovic's full criminal candidacy as president of Serbia, even though it had 5,000-6,000 signatures. Is it a reward that he did not want to clear the voter lists and that he served for the sake of the boycott and the failure of the election? Is that his reward now? Will we return at the time of Milosevic, when Judge Jankovic was awarded the post of justice because he stole local elections in 1996. Do we return to those times when Baćovic Nebojsa Pavkovic, who is now accused of what he has already been accused of, simply ran or promoted to the presidential candidate and collected 5,000 signatures. Is that a reward for those shops? This assembly is no different from the time Milosevic worked, where Balša Govedarica was especially rewarded, where Dragoljub Jankovic was awarded, where all these judges were rewarded for overcoming and stealing the citizens' will. We return at that very time, and these are not good solutions, these are too many jumps, like what Mr Pavlovic was talking about for Sonja Brkic. Simply, you bring people who do not have professional authority to the judiciary and do not impute their colleagues as experts, as fighters, such as Leposava Karamarković and Zoran Ivosevic, but rather bring people who have political protection and political background that will stand behind them and verify their, at one point, decisions that may be against the law. All of this tells us that these changes are at the expense of the justice system, and we are going to build it as part of a state that will be independent, independent and responsible. We are doing what was done again, and I think that the consequences of such treatment will be catastrophic and no emergency can cover what is being done, but this is the introduction of an emergency in the judiciary, where neither the profession nor any other respect, but respect for who is the party member, and so it will be in the case of Mr Mojse Kostic, someone mentioned Kurtovic, and I think it is all disputed and we will vote separately for those we mentioned, which we have already asked to vote on, and this remains totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29060	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who is proposing to us and who is taking action in the area of the judiciary? The legal lobby that exists in the National Assembly, and from Novi Sad; you know who - MK Komerc. All who have agreed to be candidates for certain commissions, or functions, now on the agenda for various appointments, it is obvious that they have agreed to do some big work, if it is a job, you know it best. I suppose it's an extension of the state of emergency. We're not going to have an independent, professional judiciary with these kind of frames. Are these candidates professional? No, they're not. How do we know that? We know from experience and we don't read the suggestions, we know when you put them on the duties of the performers, and now you haven't even honored us with the biographical data on these candidates to give. I'd like you to find one judge, not the President of the Court, who doesn't have an active case from 2000; there's no case. I wish we'd come to an update in two years. Unfortunately, we haven't and it's certain we won't be able to do it much longer. We asked for an exception, the SRS asked for the exception of Djorge Mirkovic in the case of an SRS-based magistrate, so we did not encounter hearing from those who had to decide. There were numerous shortcomings in his work. He blocked our account once and gave us a jury account without any legal basis. We've been referring to this negligence, and now we're being given some arguments here, which is why Djordje Mirkovic is being resolved, and we have to tell the truth of the will, knowing the structure of Mr. Mirkovic's personality, that he wouldn't let that Bagzie go either if someone hadn't told him or ordered him to do it. He's such a timid man that there's no way he's gonna do anything that the people who brought him into that position didn't agree with, and you chose him as the President of the Fourth District Court. As for Mr. Baćovic, president of the Republic Election Commission, I assume it is a reward for the numerous irregularities that took place in the election cycle, in both rounds around the election of the President of the Republic, two failed elections, recognition of the candidacy for the candidates who forged the signatures - Ivkovic, Pavkovic, Radenovic, Laloševic, Vuk Obradovic, and all with the goal of not making the presidential election. I wouldn't be surprised if it was personal. The president of the Republic intervened that Mr. Baćovic would be appointed to this post because, thanks to him, she became the acting president, moved to Dedinje, with this escort coming to the Serbian Parliament. Then I don't understand her nervousness when she gets into an armored car from the bedroom, comes to the Assembly and enters the Assembly, I guess me regular citizens who are harassed by transportation, looking at these masked faces all the time on every corner, we should be nervous. There's something wrong with what's to be expected, why someone's nervous, and we'll probably find out soon enough. Maybe because it v.d. The situation can't last forever, but it has to end once the election has to come to an end, or here in parliament, if the constitution changes, or in some elections, and then again it needs to walk the streets like a normal man, so let's see if anyone can and can have the cheeks to appear. Because of all this, really not believing in your human policy, we believe that you are doing a negative selection, that you are choosing only people who are willing to carry out all the tasks, by affecting the judiciary, in all ways to make judgments the way that the ruling majority is willing to do, and how it should be on behalf of the people, we will not vote for these proposed candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29062	Is anyone else applying for a word from the president of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. ) The word has been held by MP Zoran Cirkovic, president of the "New Serbia" parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29063	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do join the criticism of the MPs that these proposals are incomplete. It would be desirable that, with names and last names, they are proposed for high judicial functions, there are also elements of the biography. This was particularly interesting to see what is written in the biography of a certain Zlatan Kurtovic, who is being proposed as the president of the court in Novi Pazar. I don't know the other candidates, and I can't testify to them. I know a named Kurtovic. I point out, by the way, while "New Serbia" was in DOS, I was in some coordination (we are with God and with justice, and where you are going to, I don't know that). I only testify to what I know. At the time, I warned people that it was a controversial, obscenity, very suspicious moral dignity, and now I'm witnessing it. First, he was convicted of committing a customs offense, importing a car in the name of the person who died. He was a judge in Novi Sad, and when he was singled out in the 1992 assembly council, then the communists, as a government, had one good custom to invite MPs from the area from which judges were elected, and of course the system was majority and MPs were chosen by that principle, to speak of these people. I couldn't say anything nice about Kurtovich then, and there's nothing I can do about it now. Not even a year ago in DOS, there was nothing nice to say, but apparently, in these years, the man has recovered rapidly. We don't just know how it was possible, it wasn't possible to fix his biography. By the way, regardless of all this, I point out that Kurtovic was an organised member of the Communist Party, that in 1988 and 1989 he was an activist in front of the Committee and convinced us of the advantages of a system in which communist avant-garde were in. I don't know what it is now, whether this DOS is now denying its anti-Communist orientation, which seemed desirable to me. The moment my party joined DOS, she believed DOS had interrupted continuity with earlier communist rule. I'm not going to say anything about the other candidates for high-level judicial functions for the simple reason I don't know anything about them. About what I know, that's what I'm testifying to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29064	Did you challenge Mr. Kurtovic's proposal as president? You didn't come forward for the vote. Did you challenge candidate Kurtovic? Yes or no, that's all I need.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29065	When I was in coordination, I challenged it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29066	Good, because the procedure is the way it should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29067	Excuse me, are you listening to me?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29068	You have to say, you have to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29069	I'm a free man and all I'm saying is what I want to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29070	Before I conclude a unique search, I ask if the proposing's representatives want a final word. No, I don't. ) I conclude a unique search on the proposals for decisions. Please approach the quorum, as we will continue to approach the decision-making process. I'm realizing we have a quorum and we can access the decision-making process. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC INFORMATION LAW (vote) I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on public information, in principle. For 155, against 35, five of the 195 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the proposal for a law on public information in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, National MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Vladimir Andrić and Vukosav Tomašević withdrew the amendments they submitted together to Articles 4, 9, 15 and 99 and the amendment to which they proposed the addition of a new member of 4a, and MP Ivan Andrić the amendment which he submitted to Article 90; that the subject of the debate was not the amendment submitted by MP Joca Arsić to Article 44, which was rejected by the Legislative Committee as incomplete; that it was established that they were an integral part of the bill had become an amendment of the Members of the People's Parliament of Ivan Andric to the Members of 5, 27 with the rectification and 99, the amendments which were submitted by the MPs Ivan Andrić and Vera Marković, who proposed the addition of the new members of the 9th and 98th Members of the Parliament, who were together with the Members of the National Parliament of the Council of the Council and the Council of the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the European Parliament of the Council of the Europeans, the Council of the Europeans and of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the European Parliament of the Europeans and of the Council. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic as member of the 1st Parliament. Against 147, there was no 54 vote, a total of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by national MP Natasa Jovanovic on Article 2. For one, against 144, 57 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Golub Rajic to article 2. For 35, against 147, 19 did not vote, a total of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet, on Article 3. Two, against 145, were not voted 55 out of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and Djura Lazic. For 37, against 149, 17 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic on Article 4. Against 149, there was no 54 vote, a total of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic to article 5. In all, 203 MPs did not vote against 146. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Stevan Kesejic to article 6. Against 145, a abstentioned one, was not voted 57, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments tabled together by MPs Djura Lazic, Dusan Cvetkovic and Zivodarka Dacin. For 36, against 148, 19 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 7. Against 143, there was no vote of 60, a total of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreten Mitrovica and Djura Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 142, 26 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. At 147, there were no 58 votes, out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 148, 57 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 144, he did not vote 61, out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 144, he did not vote 61, out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MPs Goran Cvetanovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 138, it did not vote 67 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Dusan Cvetkovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 39, against 145, he did not vote 21 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 143, 26 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragor Hiber once proposed that new members of 13a and 13b be added after Article 13. The Committee on Culture and Information did not accept the amendment, and the proposer's representative accepted the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 91, against 66, abstentions 6, they did not vote 42, out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. In five, against 142, they did not vote 63 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 16th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 34, against 141, 30 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 142, they did not vote 62 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 144, 60 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 141 did not vote 63, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 145, 59 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by MP Lazar Marjanski. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 143, a abstentioned one, did not vote 59, out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic submitted together to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 36, against 141, 26 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 140, they did not vote 62 out of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic submitted the 29th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, against 133, they did not vote 33, out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Both MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Adam Urosevic and Milos Lukic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 35, against 139, there were no 28 votes, of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Rajko Baralic to article 32. For 36, against 143, 23 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 33. Against 138, it did not vote 63, out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the title of Chapter VII and the article 34, submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. Against 144, 59 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 34th joint vote by the MPs Nebojsa Jovic and Joca Arsic. For 39, against 142, 22 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 34. For 34, against 141, 29 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments to the 34th joint vote by the MPs Branislav Grubački and Novica Djuraskovic. For 12, against 130, three abstentions, 59 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments, which were tabled together by Parliamentarian Svetlana Stojanovic and others, on Article 35. For 43, against 107, a abstentioned one, did not vote 53, out of 204 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 35. For 32, against 144, 27 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 35th Joint Members of Parliament Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic to vote. For 37, against 142, 25 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Vakic to article 36. Against 143, 59 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by Natasa Jovanovic to article 37. For two, against 140, a abstentioned one, was not voted 60 out of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendments, which were submitted together by the MPs Milos Nesovic and others, on Article 37. For 30, against 148, 25 of the 203 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radeta, on Article 38. Against 143, 59 of the 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by Parliament MP Milorad Mircic on Article 39. Against 148, it did not vote 55 out of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic to article 43. For 32, against 147, there was no vote of 23, of 202 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic to article 44. For one, against 143, 61 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Branislav Blazic to article 46. Against 145, it did not vote 58 out of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic to article 47. Against 140, it did not vote 64 out of 204 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 52. Against 138, it did not vote 67 out of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic to article 56. Against 138, it did not vote 67 out of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to article 57. Against 141, 64 of the 205 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted to article 58 by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Against 138, a abstentioned one, did not vote 66 out of 205 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote by the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Ljubojevic to the title above the members and Article 59. Against 141 did not vote 63, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments of MP Dragan Sl. Pavlovic, who suggests adding a new member of 59 after article 59. Against 140, it did not vote 64 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the 61st People's MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, to vote. Against 137, 68 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Petar Jojic to Article 62. One, against 140, was not voted 64 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to article 76, which was tabled by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Against 141 did not vote 65 out of 206 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to article 79 tabled by MP Ivan Andric. For eight, against 134, the three abstentions, did not vote 59, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ivan Andric on Article 81. For seven, against 147, 51 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on Article 81. For one, against 147, 57 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on Article 86. For one, against 147, there were no 58 votes, of 206 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 91. For 32, against 142, 32 of the 206 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Natasa Jovanovic, who suggests adding a new Article 91a after article 91a. Against 140, it did not vote 64 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 92. For 36, against 137, 30 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 95. For 31, against 145, it was not 28 out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 95. For one against 143, a abstentioned one did not vote 60 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 96. For 29, against 145, 30 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments tabled by the People's MP, Verica Radet, on Article 97. At 146, 57 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Dragan Markovic and others on Article 98. For 32, against 144, 27 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic on Article 99. For 36, against 148, 20 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on Article 99. For one, against 148, a abstentioned one, did not vote 54, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft public information law to the vote, in general. For 156, against 34, it did not vote 13, out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on public information in general. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DEFINITIONS OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA (vote) We move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the amendment proposed by Dejan Mihajlov, the president of the Dos - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - the Democratic Party of Serbia to be a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija instead of MP Dr Vuk Antonijevic. For 192, a abstentioned one, did not vote 11 out of 204 MPs. I understand that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - I am voting on the draft law on planning and building, in principle. For 133, against 61, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Law on Planning and Construction in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put the amendments tabled by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 2. For 28, against 101 abstentions, the vote was not 67, a total of 204 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 17. For 15, against 102, with seven abstentions, did not vote 76, a total of 200 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Velimir Simonovic on Article 30. For 10, against 102, with 8 abstentions, did not vote 82, a total of 202 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 33. For 13, against 103 abstentions, six were not voted 80, a total of 202 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 36. For 23, against 101, with seven abstentions, did not vote 71, a total of 202 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 53. For 18, against 102, with six abstentions, did not vote 76, a total of 202. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 54. For 18, against 99, abstentioned four, 81, a total of 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 56. For 9, against 104 abstentions 8, 81 did not vote, a total of 202 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 67. For 16, against 102 abstentions, six were not voted 79, a total of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 69. For 20, against 104 abstentions, 74, a total of 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 70. For 14, against 102 abstentions, four were not voted 83, a total of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 72. For 38, against 106, with five abstentions, 54 did not vote, a total of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 77. For 18, against 101, the abstentions of six, were not voted 78, a total of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 78. For 30, against 97, abstentions 7, 70 did not vote, a total of 204 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 79. For 19, against 97, abstentions 6, did not vote 82, a total of 204 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I put the amendment tabled by MP Velimir Simonovic as member of the 80s. For 16, against 103 abstentions, there were no 82 votes, a total of 204 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 83. For 17, against 99, abstentioned four, 84, a total of 204 MPs did not vote. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 84. For 22, against 95, with four abstentions, did not vote 82, a total of 203 MPs. I declare that this amendment has not been accepted. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 86. For 14, against 103, three abstentions, they did not vote 83, of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote for amendments submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic to article 87. For 21, against 103, two abstentions, 76 of 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on planning and building in general. For 131 against 62, it did not vote 13, out of 206 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill on planning and building in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Republic Administrative Taxes (vote) I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Republic Administrative Taxes in principle. For 120, against 73, there was no vote of 11 out of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted jointly by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and others, and MP Vitomir Plužarevic. For 25, against 112, 68 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic on 10th. For one, against 114, 90 of the 205 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Todorovic, on article 19. For 61, against 112, they did not vote 32 out of 205 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Golub Rajic to article 14. For 53, against 114, three abstentions, they did not vote 34, of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments submitted by MP Branislav Vakic to article 14. For 110, against eight, 30 abstentions, 56 of the 204 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment to Article 14. I am putting the amendments tabled by MP Dragan Sl. Pavlovic, who proposed that a new member of the 16a be added to the job. For 47, against 112, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 44, out of 204 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled together by the MPs Hranislav Peric and Zivodarka Dacin on Article 2. For 54, against 115, 35 of the 204 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zoran Krasic on Article 24. For one against 109 abstentions, 29 were not voted 64 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to vote on the amendments tabled by the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta on 28th. Against 133, it did not vote 70 out of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting on the vote of amendments submitted together by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Dragan Todorovic, joint MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Todorovic, Adam Urosevic and MP Stevan Kesejić. For 169 against six, two abstentions, were not voted 26 out of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting on the vote by the amendments submitted by MP Dragan Colic to article 34. For 142, against two, with three abstentions, did not vote 56 of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the tariff of republican administrative taxis, the amendments were brought together by MPs Radojko Petric and others. For 164, against four, abstentioned two, they did not vote 33, of 203 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the tariff of republican administrative taxis, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No 57 votes against 147, of 204 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote amendments tabled together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 19, against 122, 24 abstentions, 37 of 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled together by Parliamentarians Petar Petrovic and others on tariff number 30. For 25, against 144, there was no 33 vote, a total of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote, with the correction, submitted by MP Sinisa Mitrovic, who suggests adding headings 56a and 56b after the 56th tariff number. For 139, against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted 60, a total of 201 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the 94 tariffs together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 154, against one, a abstentioned one, was not voted 44, a total of 200 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the 120th Tariff together by MPs Petar Petrovic and others. For 51, against 112, a abstentioned one, was not voted 37, a total of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. We have completed our decision on the amendments and we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on Republic administrative fees in general. For 120, against 22, abstentioned 32, was not voted 27, a total of 201 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Tax on Corporate Profit (vote) I am putting the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act in principle. For 153, against 24, 25, a total of 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Tax Act, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I am putting the amendments tabled together by the MPs Radojko Petrovic and Joca Arsic on Article 2. For 62, against 115, 25, a total of 202 MPs did not vote. I declare that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Veroljub Arsic on Article 2. Against 151 did not vote 52, a total of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I would like to put the amendments tabled by MP Dragisa Marinkovic, who suggests adding a new Article 2a after Article 2. For 36, against 117, there was no vote of 50, a total of 203 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I am putting the amendments tabled together by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Nebojsa Jovic. For 63, against 114, 26 of the 203 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put the amendments tabled by MP Zlatan Jovanovic to article 6. In all, 202 MPs did not vote against 147. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the corporate tax law as a whole. For 157 against 20, it did not vote 25 out of 202 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Company Profit Tax Act, in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON EXCUSES LAW (vote) I am putting to the vote the draft Act amending the Act on Excises, in principle. For 120, against 68, there were 14 out of 202 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I put to vote amendments submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic and joint MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and others on article 1 of the same text. For 53, against 118, 31 of the 202 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. I put to vote amendments submitted to Article 2 of the same text by MP Milovan Radovanovic and joint MPs Dusan Cvetkovic and others, with a correction. For 28, against 111 abstentions, 29 were not voted 34, a total of 202 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. We're going to vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill amending the Excise Act, in general. For 120, against 67, a abstentioned one, was not voted 14, a total of 202 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Excise Act in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: - I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the tax on financial transactions (vote) to vote on the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial transaction tax law, in principle. For 156, against 29, it did not vote 16 out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Milos Radivojcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 62, against 91, a abstentioned one, did not vote 46, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 152, 48 of the 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 62, against 113, a abstentioned one, was not voted 24 out of 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 142, two abstentions, no 56, of the 200 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radivojcevic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 67, against 88, two abstentions, they did not vote 42 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For one, against 146, they did not vote 52 out of 199 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radivojcevic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 82, against 87, two abstentions, 27 of the 198 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. In five, against 150, there were no 48 votes, out of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Milos Radivojcevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 72, against 91, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 34, out of 198 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Dragan Ljubojevic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Against 148, a abstentioned one, has not voted 50 since 199. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Nebojsa Jovic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 68, against 117, 15 of the 200 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. This concludes our decision on amendments and we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the tax law on financial transactions in general. For 149, v. 39, it did not vote 12 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial transaction Act. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: - PROPOSALS FOR FINISHING FUNCTION, CHOICE, NAMES AND DEFINITIONS OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS (vote) Since we have carried out a single search on proposals for decisions on termination of functions, choices, appointment and resolution of judicial function holders, we move to decision-making. 1) I am putting the motion for a decision on the termination of the position of Serbian Supreme Court President. For 118, against 10, three abstentions, were not voted 69, out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the post of Serbian Supreme Court President. 2) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the termination of the role of the Republic Public Prosecutor. For 118, two abstentions did not vote 80 out of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the role of the Republic Public Prosecutor. 3) I would like to put the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Municipal Court in Kanjija. For 119, a abstentioned one, it did not vote 79, out of 199 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Canjiza Municipal Court. 4) I would like to put the motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Fourth Ossin Court in Belgrade. For 115, against two, abstentions, three, did not vote 81, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the post of President of the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade. Since the Justice and Administration Committee has challenged the proposal of the Judicial Administration Council to elect Mojsa Kostic for the president of the Municipal Court in Alibunar, I would remind you that any contested proposal is immediately decided, and then on undisputed proposals in general, by a public vote. I am voting on a proposal from the Council for the Issues of the Judicial Administration to elect Mojsa Kostic, whose candidacy has been challenged by the Committee for Justice and Administration for the President of the Municipal Court in Alibunar. For 11, against 144, he did not vote 46 out of 201 MPs. The National Assembly did not elect Moise Kostic as the president of the municipal court in Alibunar. 5) I am putting forward a motion for a decision on the election of the president of the courts, without proposing that Moise Kostic be elected president of the municipal court in Alibunar. For 116, against 40, a abstentioned one, did not vote 44, out of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the president of the courts, without proposing that Mojsa Kostic be elected as the president of the municipal court in Alibunar. I am voting on the proposal to elect Đorđe Ostojic, former V.D. as the Republic Public Prosecutor. The Republic Public Prosecutor. For 119, against four, abstentioned 34, there were no 45 votes, of 202 MPs. I declare that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to elect Djordje Ostojic as the Republic Public Prosecutor. I remind you he's a member of 47. The law on judges found that the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia took an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mrs. Sonja Brkic, president of the Serbian Supreme Court, to take the oath. Take the oath. ) Let me congratulate you on your choice and on behalf of the National Assembly. Please sign the text of the oath. I remind you he's a member of 63. The Law on Public Prosecutor's Office found that the Republic Public Prosecutor took an oath before the National Assembly. I ask Mr. George Ostojic, the Republic Public Prosecutor, to take an oath. Take the oath. () Let me congratulate you on your choice in the name of the National Assembly. Please sign the text of the oath. After reviewing all the points of the agenda and deciding on them, I conclude the fifth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly in 2003. (The session is over at 13.40 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29071	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA The National Assembly of the Stenografical Note Sixth Session of the First Regular Session on 22 April 2003 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 13.40 p.m. The chairman of Natasa Micic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. The session is attended by 185 MPs. They were prevented from attending, the following MPs: Stanko Kovacevic, Dragan Jocic, Borisvoje Draculaovic and Slobodan Pavlovic. You have been presented the minutes of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 8, 9, 10 and 11 April 2003. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, as well as a check by the Office found that none of the MPs had submitted in writing an objection to the minutes of the previous session, I am voting on the minutes of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, held on 8, 9, 10 and 11 April of this year. For 119, two abstentions, 78 did not vote, out of the 199 members of parliament present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes from the previous session. We're moving on to the agenda. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. I am voting on the draft agenda of the Sixth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003, in general. For 119, v 59, a abstentioned one, did not vote 26 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 6th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the People, Deyan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29073	In accordance with Article 34, which states the time limit and when the law can be reached on the agenda of the Assembly, the Rules of Procedure have been violated, given that the law entered into the assembly procedure on 4 December 2002 and that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is a maximum period under which we can discuss the law for 90 days. That deadline has passed and the procedure for proposing the law must be repeated to the Assembly. We have this invalid bill ahead of us. If we want to hold a session, the government should re-propose the law to the Serbian Parliament and re-schedul the session. There's a member of 134. The Rules of Procedure are completely accurate and clear and leave no dilemmas. It's just something that's acceptable to us, and that's what we should stick to.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29074	I find that no injured Rules of Procedure, especially because the National Assembly has already adopted a proposal for the sixth session agenda. Also, there is a difficult circumstance that we have a lot of laws in the procedure, over 40, so it's very difficult to respect that 60-day deadline. If you are not satisfied, the Administrative Board will respond to your observations. Yes or no? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Siniša Mitrović.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29075	Dear fellow Members, given the dynamics of this session and the upcoming Easter holidays, on the basis of Article 81, I propose that we extend this session to 20.00 today. I'm asking the Assembly to make a statement on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29076	I would like the Assembly to declare on the proposal of MP Sinisa Mitrovica, deputy president of the DOS parliamentary group - Serbia's Reform, to extend our working hours tonight to 20.00 hours. For 106, against 71, there was no vote of 20, out of 197 MPs. I understand that a proposal from the People's MP, Sinisha Mitrovica, has been accepted. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a TELECOMMUNICATION LAW (principles) You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Velimir Simonović, together Gordana Čomić and Bojan Kostreš, Miroslav Krisodulo, Branislav Kovačević, together Petar Petrović, Milos Lukić, Adam Urošević and Milos Todorović, Veroljub Arsić, Milovan Radovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Branislav Vakić, Srboljub Živanovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Slobodan Janjic, Milorad Mirčić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Petar Jožić, Stevan Kesejic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragan Ljubojjević, Dragan Ljubojević, Lazar Marjanski, Dragan Slavka Pavlović, Vitomir Pluić, Goran Cvetanovic, Draganković, Dragana Pop-Lazić, Branislav Blažić, Branislav Blažić, Rado Ljubić, Rado Ljuba Žović, Žović, Žović and Drago Žović, Žović, Drago Žović, Žović, Dragić, Žović, Draga Žović and Draga Žović, Dragažalić, Dragaljić. National MP Branislav Kovacevic, in writing, withdrew the amendments, which he submitted to the Bill on April 18th this year. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, Minister of Transport and Telecommunications, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29077	Ladies and gentlemen, this telecommunications law is before you after a year and a half of public debates and opinions received by recognised international institutions in this area; the results of the two-year work are also confirmed by the European Commission that this law is absolutely in line with the full regulation of the international community in terms of telecommunications. One of the basic reasons why it is necessary to pass this law very quickly, and I think that we have worked on it for a long time and that in a way and late, it is an outdated legislative regulation in this area. This is primarily the applicable 1991 Law on Liaison Systems, the only change of which was made in 1997, so that one part of PTT could be singled out and a new company was formed "Telecom". In the current law in this area, which has been developing extremely quickly and for the past 12 years has been developing at an incredible rate, we have been coughing. Many different services, formulations, systems currently do not exist at all in this law and are covered by some sublaws and regulations. The new law first allows the telecommunications system to take a step forward and enable us to do so in this area, in economic activity dealing with telecommunications, rapid progress, which should have been much earlier, but here we are with this law before you, and I hope that we will also adopt it during this session. The essence of the reform provided for by this law is, above all, the free and open market, equality and non-discriminatory position on the market of all participants, which deals with telecommunications activity, preventing any form of monopoly behaviour, raising levels and quality of telecommunications services and protecting users. What is important is deregulation, i.e. the removal of regulatory functions from state authorities into an independent regulatory body, i.e. a telecommunications agency, which is both legally and functionally separate from the state and from the influence of stakeholders. We've already seen this similar solution at the Broadcasting Law, where we had the Broadcasting Agency. This system solution is in line with the complete international regulation, which we are obliged to implement. Since we intend and tend to enter the European Community quickly, the fundamental assumption is that our legislation is in line with the positive regulation of the European Union. These principles aim to bring existing, as well as future telecommunications operators into a position that they can develop their activity, of course with the obligation to comply with established principles if they wish to survive on the telecommunications market. The adoption of this law creates the basis for the establishment of a telecommunications agency, which has the property of a legal person, which makes it an independent legal entity, and the jurisdiction and powers conferred upon it by this law, as well as the composition, position, choice and resolution of the Agency's body, ensure that it is independent of any state authority, as well as of the influence of the entities directly or indirectly extended to the functioning of the Agency. The proposed competences of the Agency create a legal framework for its regulatory function to be fully expressed and the exercise of delegated public powers. In addition, the Agency has a control function, i.e. It shall exercise control over the exercise of activity in the field of telecommunications and the use of radio spectrum, which shall give it the authority to impose appropriate measures in accordance with the law in the event of breach of the provisions of this law, i.e. in the case of conduct against the conditions contained in that authorisation. In part, the agency also assumes the function of the arbiter between telecommunications operators and the users of their services, as well as between the operators themselves. As regards the financing of the telecommunications agency, the revenues for its work make up the compensation paid by the agency by the operator in accordance with the annual financial plan. The principle of funding by the agency from its own income should also be one of the guarantees of its independence. For the first year of work, the proposed funds shall be provided from the budget reserve in the form of short-term loans in accordance with the law and on the basis of the financial plan; it shall be carried out by the Government and shall establish the dynamics and return of funds to the Agency's regular income budget. The Agency's work is about the public, the possibility and obligation of an independent external audit of the Agency's financial reports and financial accounts; therefore, the obligation of the public to work; also, constitutionally - judicial and judicial control of the Agency's work; it also establishes a maximum social balance and guarantee that the regulatory body will not become a supranational body and will not abuse its independence. The agency envisions a five-member council, proposed by the government, and elected by the Assembly. I must stress that the telecommunications agency is exclusively an expert body, in the management and advice of the agency are called exclusively by people from the profession - from the fields of law, economics, technical sciences. In this case, telecommunications should be completely separate from politics and any different influences, especially financial ones. We have left in the transitional provisions of this law, which is causing objections, an existing "Telecoma" monopoly within fixed telephony. Since the "Telecoma" monopoly was guaranteed by an internationally recognised contract, it was also necessary at the request of international institutions to find such a member within the framework of the law. The law states that it is a monopoly, possible by June 2005, which does not mean that it cannot be shortened or abolished before that, of course in agreement with shareholders within the company Telecom itself. Within the framework of mobile telephony, which is limited resources, the natural wealth of a single state, remains the notion of a license, i.e. the concept of a competition to obtain certain resources and tenders, carried out by a telecommunications agency. All other activities will operate according to market criteria and all under equal conditions. Based on what I said and the need for reform in the area of telecommunications, I suggest that this law be passed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29078	I'm setting a break, and in the afternoon, we'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. In order and unanimously with the member of the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteurs of the committees, presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups shall have the following words.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please continue the session to determine if we have a quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Do the words of the rapporteurs of the committees in charge: The Committee on Transport and Connections, MP Dragan Markovic or the chairman of the Legislative Committee? No, they don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Please, the word has been given by the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29080	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, will begin its presentation or discussion on the proposal for a Law on Telecommunications by means of an explanation for the adoption of laws given by the proposing, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In light of this law, it states that the first reason for the adoption of a new law that would regulate relations in telecommunications, is that the current Republic Law on Liaison Systems, which is the subject of regulation and telecommunications, was adopted in June 1991, and that is correct. The second reason, which is largely inapplicable to a whole series of issues and relations in the area of modern telecommunications, such as Internet services, telecommunications operators' interconnection - I don't understand it, I think we should talk about the interconnection of telecommunications networks - then, cable distribution networks, lease lines and other things. The above-mentioned claims are unfounded because only the Law on Liaison Systems of the Republic of Serbia, and not the laws passed by the SFRY; under the constitution, the SFRY was editing systems of links, i.e. mail and telecommunications. This is seen from the following facts: the system of connections, mail and telecommunications are governed by the Law on Liaison Systems, "Official Journal of the SFRY" No 24/74; then by the Law on Liaison Systems, "Official Journal of the SFRY" No 41/88; the powers of the Community of Yugoslav PTT to adopt technical regulations and other acts are given in the Law on Association in the Community of Yugoslav PTT, Post Office, Telegraph and Phone, "Official Journal of the SFRY", number 18/78. Under the powers of the Law on the Association of Yugoslav PTT, the Community has adopted technical regulations to edit the telephone network; this has led to a general plan of the telephone network, a general plan of the telegraph network and a general data transfer plan. Of all the above, it is true not to mention the Internet. At the time of writing the Federal Law on Liaison Systems in 1988 and the Law on Systems of Connections of the Republic of Serbia in 1991, the Internet was not used. However, Article 6/11a(2) provisions. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Liaison Systems ("The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", No. 20/97), enabled the use of Internet services; this position was read - The Government can issue a license, or a license for the provision of telecommunications services that do not belong to fixed telecommunications network services. However, MPs can personally be convinced that the proposal for a telecommunications law does not regulate the area of the Internet, i.e. providing services and access to the global Internet network, providing Internet services and preventing abuse. In the bill, the word "Internet" is mentioned only in Article 4 point 30), where the meaning of the term is explained; then in Article 38, the last position of point 4) which reads - Internet Services. Taking into account the trend in the development of the Internet and in particular the use of Internet telephony and future multimedia services, this law must, in particular, regulate the provision of services to global internet networks, the provision of Internet services and the prevention of abuse. In the draft law, the cable distribution network is referred to in Article 4 paragraph 1 point 24 where the meaning of the term is explained, and in Article 38, the last item 5) states - cable distribution network services related to radio and TV distribution. Any provision of the draft law has not been regulated under which conditions a legal or natural person, domestic or foreign, shall be entitled to build cable distribution networks, or cable distribution systems. Instead of selling concessions, the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications allowed privates to harass Serbia and cheat citizens, taking between 75 and 150 euros, ministers, and even more, to build cable television, but the lowest technical level; that is, there is only one-way communication: users receive a program that service providers send them. This is a waste of the future of telecommunications in the Republic of Serbia to achieve a small number of individuals' profits. In the current law, the areas of telecommunications were regulated and controlled by the federal Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, the Ministry of Transport and the links of the Republic of Serbia and the Community of Yugoslav Mail, Telegraph and Phone. The telecommunications agency is now taking over all the tasks of the authorities of the state administration and the community of Yugoslav PTT, but it is also gaining new rights to coordinate work between the owners of telecommunications networks regarding the interconnection of networks. A new obligation is created for basic universal consumer protection services, and in particular for the protection of accounts, the technical examination of built objects, etc., which have not worked in advance of those bodies, or the Community of Yugoslav PTT. Proposers of the telecommunications law did not look at the scope of the business, as they never practically dealt with the problem and the business in telecommunications. They need to understand that all of this is easy to write, but they have to be responsible for it, that it has to be done tomorrow. In the draft telecommunications law, there is no supervisory board to oversee the work of the agency. I think it was necessary to predict the advice of the users. The agency has a large scope of all three types of government. It has legislation, because it adopts general acts and regulations, gives concessions, licences, approves permission for radio stations, conducts technical checks and gives certificates, conducts inspection controls, etc., which is the executive authority and has part of the judicial authority in resolving disputes between concessionaries. According to the dominant types of services used by public telecommunications networks, it was necessary to designate in law a specific member of the network type. If we said that the law does not allow one legal person to perform two public telecommunications services, we expect three companies to form in Telekom Srbija: one will deal with the stationary network, one mobile phone to Serbia and one Internet. I think that, according to the dominant types of services used by public telecommunications networks, the law should have been designated as a special member of the network type. Today we have a public fixed telephone network, a public mobile phone network, a public fixed cable distribution network for two-way communication; a broadcasting network; a public fixed inter-monetary and international network of cables and transmission systems; these are optical cables.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29081	Do you want to use the next ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29082	Yeah. We have a public network for access to the global Internet network, public data transmission network, public broadcasting network for one-way transmission, it's a page system, a public fixed telegraph network. The public telecommunications network is a general concept for all types of public telecommunications networks. The public telecommunications network is named for a dominant service, and so far the laws have established a regulation for telephony networks, telegraphs, data transmission, broadcasting, as well as television broadcasting. The development of technology in the field of micro-electronics and software has enabled the construction of new networks and new services in telecommunications, which is why the telecommunications law should, as I pointed out, list networks based on a dominant network. The proposal for a telecommunications law shows five problems that will have an impact, and I personally think the disastrous consequences of the further development of telecommunications in Serbia. It is the number of board members and their choice, the decommissioning of controllers in the field of telecommunications, the lack of supervision of the Agency's work, uncontrollable access to the global Internet network and unregulated construction of a cable network for television distribution, Internet services, as well as internal telephony and multimedia systems. I would particularly like to emphasise, although I tried this on the Transport and Telecommunications Committee, that a member of the 3rd Telecommunications Act, regulate relations in the telecommunications sector, should be complemented and put as one of the principles to be deregulation and liberalisation of regulations; secondly, market liberalisation, equipment, services, infrastructure in the telecommunications area; thirdly, maintenance and development of basic telecommunications services; fourthly, access to public telecommunications networks through the Open Network provision. Of course, one principle should be protecting secrets in the area of telecommunications. I didn't make this up, these are the principles of both the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. Also, I point to Article 5, where it is said that the policy and strategy of the development of telecommunications leads, that is, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we take the Law on Planning and Construction, we almost had this law, we see that the spatial plan is brought by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I think that, when it comes to the policy and strategy of the development of telecommunications, the Assembly needs to bring it in, because telecommunications is of particular interest to each country, so I think it should also be for the state of Serbia. I think there is a need for one consensus of all parties sitting in this House. Article 33 says that private telecommunications networks, if they do not use frequency and characteristic numbering, do not need to address the agency for obtaining permission. I think all telecommunications equipment owners, whether they're building it, whether they're providing telecommunications services, must report to the agency and the agency that they have in their register the state of the telecommunications network, so let it be a private network, because that private network, and if used by the military, if used by the police, electricity, railways or home technology, can in good faith endanger public telephone traffic if it's not cared for. Also in Article 33, there is one point that says that private telecommunications networks can be fenced, they can't have more than one, as they say, connection, one final connection; I don't understand that, this one final connection; it depends on what this final connection is, because it can also operate 100 channels, it can work over 100 channels, it can connect that private network to a public telecommunications network, and I don't think that's a good thing to say. I would particularly like to ask the MPs, and also the representatives of the motion to pay attention to Article 49 of the Telecommunications Act. Article 49 speaks of basic universal services. And what does that mean? This means that these services do not have a commercial character and must be provided to all users of telecommunications services, so to all users who have phones, and we can even interpret that they must be provided to all citizens. For this there is a possibility, but hardly as it is said in the bill - the initial volume of universal services necessarily refers to access to public fixed telephone services, including a voice-based data transfer service that provides quality Internet access. No country in Europe has provided this. Quality internet access cannot be physically watered; you know what quality internet access is, that means that the subscriber must have the least ISDN connection. We can't have it, it has to be in Sjenica, everywhere in Serbia, in every populated place, where we introduce the phone. We can't provide it, or the agency can't provide it, or the telecommunications operator. So I think this needs to be changed and put that's access to a fixed stationary network, that it's a possibility to include a fax, etc. I've read Austrian, Croatian, German law and no one has solved it like this. Furthermore, when it comes to universal services, I think there is a need to predict the number of public speakers, the penetration of pay phones; the number of public speakers we will have in cities, in populated cities. In Greece, the rule is that when a pay phone is telephoned, another pay phone must be seen. It's their penetration, and we could say relative to the number of users, etc. Since almost no amendments have been adopted, and they are technical, submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, we practically cannot vote in favour of this law, and we intend to and need the law. Several amendments were to be adopted here to fix this law to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29083	Are any of the other representatives of the parliamentary groups applying for a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, and then by MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29084	This law is needed, perhaps under this title and title or by someone different, but in any case we need one law that would regulate the area of telecommunications. We have a fundamental need for this because since 1991 we have no practical normative solutions and because of this change within the SRJ. The fact is that there is no longer this shared competence in the area of telecommunications, it has already belonged to the Member States, and thus to the Republic of Serbia to handle this area on its own, and possibly by some merger and accession to find a common language with the Republic of Montenegro. Therefore, this law should regulate practical broadcasting, transmission, reception of all messages via wire, radio optical and other means of communication. What is to be found in this law, by the logic of things, are very precise provisions that can carry out this activity, which are its rights, which the conditions should meet to be implemented, as it is carried out, of course not to the details and technical details, but to the global lines. The rights of users and particularly issues of construction, possession, maintenance and exploitation of both networks and the quality of services provided in this area are likely to be regulated. I can only begin to realize that all these criteria, conditions do not meet the proposed law. On the contrary, when the members are looked at and analysed a little bit better, then it can be concluded that this is a very bad and failed translation of other people's law, I would say even a combination of several laws, and something that is today's proposal is absolutely unspeakable and difficult to apply. That's probably why the promoter goes with a proposal to form a special agency as a control, regulation and who knows all the bodies. As much as the promoter says it will not be a supranational body, I am absolutely sure that it will be the largest monopolies in a very interesting area such as telecommunications, which is about to experience its maximum, but at the end of the day this technological generation of the development of such forms of communication and in that body, I see that agency intertwining the interests of world equipment manufacturers. I'm surprised the predecessor didn't say anything about it, but he's already based his exposure on technical details that don't really matter to the National Assembly, since there's politics here, and he's not talking about how much money he needs to be on some connection. I think we need to point to that side of the proposal of this law. Since we have old, unarranged regulations, it is probably known that the JPTT Community, which Telekom, brought several hundred sublegal acts so that they could apply these existing laws and thus manifest their state monopoly, so-called. A functional monopoly in this area. I think we should look back on how we got to the current state. We came to this state by making the phone up to about 15 years ago a luxury. Few have had the opportunity to secure the phone within some development plan of TT capacity, a central committee or a municipal committee, which monitored some urban plans. Usually phones are installed with delays and what's interesting today when we talk a lot more about property rights and other ways of looking at property rights, almost no one gets a free phone. Everyone paid for it, even the one who got a social apartment. In building that apartment, his company had to pay for that phone and that phone connection. It should be known, because of the public, Telekom and his predecessor had never experienced or received donations from the state. He always based his development on his potential, even when it was our division and the Sisovic division, and then there was a situation that the OUR Nis node area sued the OUR Sarajevo node area because the only profit was in a passing signal in communications. All of this needs to be known to say that what we call today is telephony, public fixed telephony, or this entire network of ours, is a national treasure. If it were another time, probably every phone subscriber that owns the phone would be a Telecom shareholder, but unfortunately, it's not the situation. Telekom is a state-owned company that was partially and privatised in 1997. It's a state of action and we're facing a monopoly problem today, of course in a different way after the self-government system that's behind us. We have another monopoly. It's Mobtel and he's gone, as you've seen, even in the name of this law, or even in the transitional, or in the final provisions. There are some indications about exclusive licences, and they are two, and they are known to be limited in time and give exclusive right to use and provide certain services in the area of telecommunications. This exclusive right should certainly be respected for the simple reason why each contract is binding. Probably even more binding on that contract concluded in 1997, which still interprets those in Telekom, still can't interpret the whole contract, there's something going on, and there's only a troubled member of the 12th that says that the price of the impulse is harmonized, but that's another story for some other time. When we talk about our Telekom, it should be known that at some point in time Telekom, an old name, was obliged to conduct a telephone line in a village called the last post office today, and that's one phone for about a few villages. No one asked Telekom then if it was worth it, but the fact is, the child was made and should be kept safe. So, what needs to be solved by this law, unfortunately, we from the Serbian Radical Party do not see it in the bill. This is where a special agency is established and about on a strange principle. The Americans have NASA, and since we don't have NASA, it'll probably come to somebody's mind to build a space research agency, but there's one problem, we don't have any space shuttles. When we look at our whole Serbia, it has about less telephone connections than one Munich. And to make a miracle bigger, one Munich, or that phone station of theirs, has seven to eight times less electronic engineers than our Telecom. Probably when you form an agency, a good number of these people will move into that agency to control their colleagues, to slow down the monopoly and otherwise probably install some producers, and there is already some obligation to pay special attention to some producers. Few people in this room know that in 1990 and 1991, in our Telecom, this technological development started. Then, in our space, telecommunications became a profitable business. Until then, God doesn't know what, but before 1990, our telephony company, publicly, had about the most problems to establish a subscription relationship, how to inform citizens that there were no technical options and how to run an empty administrative procedure without a man getting a phone. We should say that people in villages gave from 1500 to 3,500 marks to get phones, to get some communication with the world. Even then, they realized that when a cousin from Germany invites them as if he were somewhere, that's what they hear, and when they call Belgrade, a neighbor or neighbor across the street, they cramp and fail to establish a connection. Our technological development in the area of Telecom and telephony was stopped in 1992, May. At that time, a large contingent of Alcatel's headquarters was stopped at the border for sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29085	Please return to the subject of the agenda, and that is the law on telecommunications, not the history of telecommunications. Do you want to use the next 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29086	I want to use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29087	Here you go, but please stick to the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29088	I keep that proposal in my hand all the time. Ma'am, there's no need to get excited. Because look, there's a member here who practically makes it impossible for anyone who wants to provide fixed telephony services to realize their obligation. Here, let me help you, since obviously, not a lot of people are reading this law. Let's say, for the protection of users, they have the right to be informed and to get a full list, to know exactly how much he talked to, who he turned to, etc. Now, that's Article 92(2). You see, that's only possible at those Alcatel headquarters. Not on what we have DKTS, some old GTI and ours that isn't developed, you should know that. There was a project of our home phone station that wasn't developed, and we need to ask the question right now -- why hasn't this project been developed, who's been developing it? You see, on these three plants, old ones, it's impossible to figure out the number; you can see the number of impulses, etc., but to see the listing -- who he called, who he talked to, how long it took -- that's impossible. And then we come to the conclusion that the law was written by people who don't know the actual state. You know, some power plants are on their way now, something's going on, some micro sites are being created around Belgrade, some sites are being provided for the installation of new power plants. But imagine what happened -- the plant will end up in the Jerkovic Brothers, but it won't be allowed to connect anyone's phone. Why -- because it was designed for a settlement that was illegally erected, and Minister Schumarac says it's a crime to give an infrastructure connection to someone who built an object without permission. Please, what are we talking about? We're talking about these ridiculous things in the law, which are listed here, and they're asking us to act like fools. Well, we're not going to be the ones with the nonsense of having problems, you're absolutely right. Next, we talked a few days ago about the Building of Objects Act. Nowhere has there been approval of construction as a complex administrative act, precisely because of Telecom and whoever needs to develop our fixed telephony. We now have an active situation that one gives a building permit for a construction facility, another ministry or an authority of the administration other license for technical documentation. And what happens: when he designs the technical part, he doesn't know where his cables come in from. That needs to be resolved. It's not our departments that cleared it. It's "steal ears, rags... ", he's getting on at Telecom." These are some problems to talk about, not the agency, not the equipment manufacturers that are going to be installed here on this market. Serbia doesn't have a space shuttle, so neither does NASA. What do we need for two million connections from the agencies? The regulatory body, as the sui generis said -- which sui generis, why is a special organ -- a special organ that will write its own regulations -- self-implementing new monopolies? We will later, when the amendment is made, all of the points in point to explain why the concept of the agency is wrong, not allowing development, but satisfying one's interests, and the selected interests of some providers and future providers of some new services to be developed in a year or two days. This law is a law against Telecom and our Telecom does not save any provision from the transitional and final provisions of this bill. Of course, we're not for the monopoly to stay at Telecom. The question is, is there a monopoly at Telecom and exists after their own transformation and new moves of property transformation? The question is why has this law not been resolved until the end of the anti-monopolistic behaviour on the market? There are no provisions, there are only colorful stories here about the fight against the monopoly. Here principles are given as good wishes. Nearly 50% of the principles set out in this law are in two members, one is in telecommunications and the other is in radio stations. They are given as simple beautiful desires, which make no commitment, and what may seem to be the principle, has not been fully implemented in the provisions of this law. This law practically means that the Ministry will not do business under its jurisdiction, but will do it by the agency, and no one will be able to control it. What will happen to our development - our development will stop. Which is why it's going to stop -- here's to explain -- for the simple reason that we don't see from this law the future of telephony development in our country. It's gonna seem a little weird to you. Usually a regulation is passed as a general act, and some programs, directions, goals, etc. come from it. This is one of the few laws that needed to be preceded by a strategy or a programme, but a clear vision of what Serbia wants. Does Serbia want - every house fixed phone; does Serbia want - three, four holders of fixed telephony business; so let there be electricity, so there should be railways, so there should be others? We're not getting into an unresolved question whether it's a concession, a license, an approval, a permit or a certificate? We'll talk about it later. So, we don't go into things, we'll talk about it when those members come in. But with this group of amendments that we have submitted, we want to show you how pointless this concept of development is, or not just development, how pointless the concept of regulation in the area of telecommunications is. If someone thinks that the establishment of an agency can prevent something negative that exists in the ministries -- and it's known in radio frequencies that make a plan, who makes a network of prosthetics, etc., it's known that, before you want to get a license, you have to go through three or four addresses, one in RTS, it's all known -- but if someone thinks it can stop it through the agency, they're wrong. There's a problem of respect, law enforcement, and obviously a moral problem. The problem stands, whether at the ministry or at the agency. We represent a different concept, where basic rights and everything that is significant, principled nature are regulated by this law, and all professional matters are left to the Ministry of Telecommunications, beginning with standards, through inspection supervision, control, preparation of materials, etc. We believe that it is especially necessary to separate itself from this telecommunications commission, which would do several very specific jobs. One is to call a public competition, to grant a license, approval or what we call it, and in particular to have jurisdiction over the control of the monopoly, because the issue of the monopoly is not ended here until the end. Here the agency appears as a first-degree, second-degree and third-degree body and as an authority that makes its decisions right. That's impossible. In particular, we're going to talk about the extent of the transfer of public authority to the agency: she's funding herself, she's making her own rules, she's deciding how she's going to apply the regulations. As for the National Assembly and all those involved in politics, it better be in the Ministry, in the Government, at least it changes for four years, and we know who's responsible, but with Mom on Dad, some agency that no one can control later, or call for responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29089	The word comes from MP Dragan Markovic, president of the SSJ parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29090	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Soviet Union will not vote for this law. When you get a bill and after ten days on 130 members, as far as this proposed law has, you have 148 amendments, of which the amendment promoters both from the opposition and from the position, and I must say that the government has proposed a dozen amendments, that means that this law is not good and is not what it was in the public debate, if it was at all. Yesterday on the board, I suggested that this law be removed from the agenda, that it be extended for 30 days, given that it is now a state of emergency, and that it takes participation in the work to take and people are out of the profession. It wasn't accepted yesterday on the board. I say, a large number of amendments means that this law is not good. We in the USSR think it's not good to have the agencies back together. Every new law that comes into this congregation drags along some agency. How many agencies there are in Serbia so far, nobody knows how to tell us alive, not even people from the government. Each agency has its own administration, and it has been said that the administration will be reduced, budget spending will be reduced, as people who worked in the administration will sometimes, more than half, be transferred to another job. Now we see the agencies, and the next day we don't know who's in charge, whether it's the ministry or the agency. This law says agency. So far, it's been in the department's jurisdiction. Who's proposing to the agency? It is proposed by the Serbian government. All the agencies that have been formed so far have been proposed by the Serbian government. We of the Soviet Union doubt that this policy will lead to the main word, given that the profession does not propose workers and the board of directors of the agency. Also, when it comes to board members: the chairman of the board of directors is elected for five years, two members for four years and two members for three years. These three members, headed by the president, can do whatever they want. The law does not define the chairman of the board of directors to be of the profession, as he has the highest term of office of five years. We don't think that's good. No amendments have been accepted either. I can tell you that only the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mrs Gordana Comic were accepted. The Soviet Union believes that this law is not good because politics interferes and because the government proposes to the agency and members of the board of directors. Given that this is a national wealth, and we are referring to laws in the European Union; we have also received the opinion of the Telecom Union, which says that in some countries in Europe this area is differently decorated, in Germany, in Austria. I have this Union of Telecoms Union of Serbia, on several sides of the ticking material. If those people who are from the profession and do this job say this law is not good, we should believe them. In this law, the problem is that people who use mobile and fixed telephony, because there are holes in this law, have special powers and can do whatever they want. This law gives them the opportunity to use this national wealth in a future period, because as I could interpret it, and I am not a lawyer, but those who had a fixed, or mobile phone license have the right to work for another year and adapt to the new law, and this is not the case with radio - television frequencies. They say the area is governed by some other law. We can't double it when it comes to radio and television frequencies and when we look at from another angle what powers people have to use this national wealth when it comes to fixed and mobile telephony; they're in a more privileged position. For the reasons I have cited, the Soviet Union will not vote for this law, because it is not good and because it is harmful for those who work in this area and for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29091	The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29092	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we can't ask why the telecommunications law is now being debated and whose interest it was, if we knew this was a natural, state-owned resource to be exploited, where we have great losses because we haven't discussed telecommunications so far, as well as broadcasting. Did anyone care to leave time to allow some media to adapt their business to the conditions that this law will require as soon as possible or during this period of law-making. Whether or not this was the goal, we will see, given that the plan for the distribution of frequencies, the Federal Ministry of Telecommunications, did it in July 2001, where absolutely all systems and everything is needed. You can tell exactly who was supposed to get the frequency and who wasn't. They weren't supposed to get the frequency back then. Maybe that's why it was too late to pass laws to allow them to prepare and comply with what the law would prescribe. As they have not done so so far, and the pressures of the international community are very high for the adoption of broadcasting laws and the law on telecommunications, this law has joined. The concept as such, although it exists in some countries, is rather controversial for me. This concept should be returned or raised to a higher level, for the Assembly to be one of the factors in the policy definition process and in general all telecommunications-related jobs. Only the Ministry is mentioned here, and we have an agency. The Agency is nothing but a state in the country; it is said to be an independent legal entity, functionally independent of any state body, as well as of all organisations and persons involved in telecommunications networks, funds or services. So we have an absolutely independent body. It says here that the government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the telecommunications ministry, determines policy in the area of telecommunications. That's in Article 5. And Article 7 says that in order to ensure conditions for effective implementation and improvement of established policy - it means not only to implement, but also to improve or change policy - the agency is established. It leaves the possibility that as an independent, independent body, it will also be financially independent, to be a completely foreign body in a state order. It is even to the extent that it is exempt from the Law on the salaries of employees of state authorities. Whether or not Minister Djelic agreed to it, will we give one agency, compared to all others, to determine its own wages, since it has incomes that it will make, I don't know. In my view, it is completely inadequate and completely impossible for you to have one agency completely ripped out of the entire system of states, which has more profits than other agencies, MPs, ministers and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. Is that natural? Of course not. Not one part of the government, and one agency that should help this assembly work, make more money and be excluded from the entire system of profit in state bodies. It's totally unacceptable for us. There's no way we can agree on that. This is precisely the intention of the agency not only to implement but also to improve or change policy in the area of telecommunications. Here we come to the point - that the Assembly is completely dissipated. The congregation has absolutely no influence. Well, then why do we exist here? To be someone's instrument, to gather here and discuss some trivial things, and to discuss the essential things for the state, where the income lies, to decide on some agency, which no one controls, which determines for itself. Who needs that? It takes those who have no clean intentions and those who want to abuse this little time in power that's left, to maybe change something and to share some frequencies. If you look at the Agency's jurisdiction, they're extremely controversial. For example, Articles 8 and 9 say that the agency is preparing and implementing a public tender procedure for the issue of certain licences. Point 9) is said to monitor whether telecommunications operators adhere to the conditions contained in the issued permits. So, they question the ad, the conditions for issuing permits, the issuing of licenses, and then they control it. It's all done by the same agency; all jobs are concentrated at the agency. Who's in control here? They set their own salaries, are independent of all other state authorities, decide their own permits, question the tender themselves, and control those who have been granted the permits. Are we talking about a transparent system or a system that doesn't have a shred of transparency? Is this the system we need? Of course not. This is all the opposite. If someone is going to convince us that these systems exist somewhere, there may be but in a country where corruption and organised crime are reduced to the least, you have public opinion and other institutions to control. In a country in transition, this system must not exist because it opens up the possibility of corruption, and it does not stop it. Where there's no public opinion, and there's no opinion here, you have corruption. In transition countries, the fight against corruption can only be led by public, transparency. That's what we all insisted on when we came to this congregation. There's no transparency here. Anything we're away from the Assembly, we're beyond transparency. That should be clear for all of us. When all these dots are connected, they're self-exploiting conditions, public competition, they're giving licenses, they're controlling themselves, so what are we talking about here? What are we doing here? Do we need to give someone the authority to do everything, and we need to get together once in six months, the presidents of the parliamentary groups, and just verify what someone is going to do? Is it known which means lie in telecommunications and which is the goal of doing so? This agency is something like the Republic Road Directorate, which determines the price of toll, collects tolls, distributes everything, gives roads and everything else, which is why these things appear. There's absolutely no control. This is a nakarad system, contrary to what is needed in transition countries. Then we have a license question; it's being misread here. This is a matter of concession. The concession implies giving certain jobs that someone works under certain conditions for a certain compensation. The license is something else, it means that all those who meet certain conditions have access to certain jobs. Here you have limited access to certain jobs and it's a simple concession, not a license. This is misdefined as a license and this is contrary to the concession law. You should take a look at that, too. Then, you have deadlines that are pretty short, that by June 2003 this should be adjusted. Hundreds of sublegal acts should be brought in. Who's gonna match this? Will this be enforceable? Of course not. Then why is this law passed? So to satisfy the form towards the international community and the European Union, the European Commission, which insists that we pass the telecommunications law, and at this stage they do not care whether the law will be implemented and implemented. They're interested in fulfilling the form, and that's what they're going to do. The law will be passed, and what kind of law it will be, will it be somewhat in line with the rules of the European Union, perhaps it will, may not, but those rules are quite broad. The materials were obtained, according to European Commission representative Jeffrey Berett, agreed on this. If you look at his letter in English and look at the translation, you see that something disagrees. I don't know if anyone thinks we don't speak English here. You have to read the letter in the original and the translation and you'll see that it's two different things. He said he agrees with some basic principles of competition, antelope, but that he needs to get more details so he can get to know himself. But here it is immediately interpreted that we have been given the consent that our law is in line with European regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, the European regulations, if anyone calls on them, are very broad and stretchy. I have here a statute in the field of telecommunications and a series of other acts, where it is seen that European regulations are something else entirely. They leave a great opportunity to have space for one or two concepts. Here we are talking about that concept, which can be said to be in accordance with some European norms, but very difficult. In this way, we get the concept completely contrary to the needs of Serbian citizens, and they require a transparent system. If we assume that the Agency can pass general acts, Article 103 speaks of it, see the Constitution itself, and you will see that this provision is against the constitution. General acts can only be brought by the Assembly and the Government, no one else. We can't pass on such a right to someone else. General acts shall be adopted in the Assembly and shall be adopted by the Government in its capacity to enforce the laws of this assembly. These are regulations and other general acts. It's defined by this that the agency can pass general acts. If you take the authority of this agency, its financial independence, that there is no public control, that it can pass general acts, it can improve and change policy in the area of telecommunications, which is not determined by this assembly but by the Government on a proposal from the ministry, we get a closed system without control, a system that will not prevent, but open the possibility of corruption, and that various jobs, various permits are given to those who do not have all the conditions. Is this preparation to maybe "Pink" or someone else gets permission even though it doesn't meet all the conditions? Is that what we're talking about here? Of course we're talking about small doors trying to get big things through, where they want jobs done for various regimeal televisions, until there's an emergency election and a change of government. If we look at how international co-operation is defined, it's the only member. Who will lead this international co-operation? Telekom Srbija, as it has been so far? We don't have a federal-level ministry anymore. Telecommunications has been completely transferred to a republican level. Who will lead international co-operation, as it will take place, it does not appear to be within the authority of the agency. In whose jurisdiction is international co-operation and international relations, then? Whoever's going to do this, one of the only members has been defined as such. It's in the jurisdiction of the Republic, it needs to be arranged and seen how it will work. What is very important is that our bill is very weakly regulated by two members, which is the protection of citizens' rights. The area is very carefully defined in foreign legislation. In our law, we only have two members and they define protection of citizens' rights in the most general and most banal way, which is completely inadequate and inadequate, given what kind of area it is. All we're going to remember is an affair of listening, the Internet and everything. There were survey committees in this assembly. Someone tapped someone over the Internet and over various cables. This is where we come to the issue of protecting the rights of citizens. In the laws of the countries far ahead of us in the area of telecommunications, e.g. Germany, you have something called telecommunications secret, the abuse of transmitters, the restraining order, technical protection measures, data protection. You have information and information requests from the security authority. So, all up to the point is defined. Since we have laws that we passed in this assembly ten days ago, which are amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure and everything else that is to a good extent contrary to the European Convention and to the UN International Convention on Human Rights, we can see that there is an opportunity for many threats to citizens' rights in Serbia. This law regulates the right of users of telecommunications and consumer protection in the least possible way, where there is absolutely no protection. We don't protect citizens through this law. Our goal is to protect the right of citizens to secrecy, to something that is privacy, to prevent listening and anything that can be called abuse of rights by the state. We have to limit the state to the rights of citizens here. If this agency has all these independence attributes, it controls itself, it can determine and improve politics and everything else, it raises the question of what happens to citizens and where they are citizens. Is it happening that we all exist so that someone has telecommunications and that they can listen to us? Whether telecommunications exists to serve citizens and to serve as citizens. There are no technical measures to protect, no prohibitions to abuse other species, and no data protection. In much more complex countries, such as Germany, there is a precisely developed system of protecting these things. We have Austria, where there is also a telecommunications secret, where it is said that all communication data is subject to it, and especially the fact that someone participates or does not participate; means everything that relates to a telecommunications secret. There's an operator's obligation to protect that data. A lot of things haven't been done by this law. We're talking about a concept that can or doesn't have to be good. He is, as he is, distorted by some things, related to the authority of an agency that absolutely has imperial powers, where there is no control, where a facade is made by the Assembly's appointment of a board of directors. It's an absolute facade, because this board of directors, given all the authority of the agency itself, won't be able to control anything. We are getting a system alienated from this assembly, alienated from the representatives of the citizens; this system can turn against these citizens, so it can be in power. Is this telecommunications law what we need? Of course not. The DSS stands for another concept. We advocate the concept that telecommunications policy is determined by the Assembly, that it has the greatest powers, that the ministry, government and agency that will be formed cannot deal with essential things about telecommunications policy, but that they are the service of this assembly and the function of citizens; for a service that will be public, transparent, where every MP and every citizen will be able to have insight into how and what is done. So, the telecommunications law, we get a surreal telecommunications system alienated from citizens, without control, where we have the Agency's independence and financial and profit-related. Did the one who works at the telecommunications agency deserve to earn more money than some member of the government, some minister. Why would he make more money if he's part of the state's apparatus? Why is that happening? Who's the target? We can only assume. As such, this law will hardly be enforceable. It takes only three months, as predicted by this law, hundreds, not to say thousands of acts of accompanying documentation. Nothing has been done, nor will there be an insight into that file, nor will we have insight into what is happening, since the agency has been left behind to bring in general acts. That's unconstitutional. General acts can be brought by the Assembly and the Government. If someone was referring to other general acts, then they must not be called general acts, but they know what are in legal terms general acts and for who can bring them. If someone was referring to the acts closer to the agency's work, then they should have said so. It can't be called general acts, because the provision as such is anti-constitutional. Neither we nor the government can delegate to anyone the possibility of bringing in general acts, because that is exactly our constitutional authority, and the citizens gave it to us so that they could control us. This is how we get the system open to machinations and corruption, out of control. I sincerely hope that this law, since it will be difficult to implement, will not produce as many harmful consequences as possible, if someone goes arrogantly and irresponsibly to carry it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29093	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Bojan Pajtic, president of the DOS parliamentary group – Serbia's Reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29094	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is more of a reason why this law came before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. One reason is for certain that the Law on Systems of Links was brought in 1991 and that practically does not cover a whole series of moments related to, above all, technological advances in this area. Practically, the Liaison Systems Act only changed in 1997 -- if we exempt changes from 1993 and 1994, to sanction certain procedures that are not in line with the law -- when a change in ownership structure, i.e. a change in the status form of PTT Serbia, was made to a stock company due to the need to sell a part of the company. It is unusually important to pass this law precisely because existing legislation does not even know the Internet as a means of communication, even though it has become one of the usual means of communication, and it is practically not formally covered in any way. It is also necessary to pass such a law because of the obligations we have under the International Telecommunications Alliance as a Member State, which is obliged to comply with the provisions and directives of this organisation, but also because of the internal need for development in this area. The development of this area is simply conditioned, due to the causal linkages with other countries' telecommunications, by harmonising our standards, criteria and legal acts with legal acts and country standards in the environment. The aim of this law is to reform this area, and it is reformed in a number of ways; the provisions of this law indicate that the market in this area must be open to all, it must not come to the establishment of a monopoly, which is one of the provisions of the Constitution; therefore, this law strictly follows the principles, the existing Constitution all of this foresees, it is a non-discriminatory approach when granting permits, regardless of whether permits are granted to natural or legal, domestic or foreign persons, if the conditions laid down in this law are met, then access to all potential founders is equal to the possibility of obtaining permits for all those persons and is fully uniform. The quality of services also needs to be increased in this area. We are witnessing what they are doing, both our national companies and the ministry, to improve quality in this regard, especially for the past few months and the past two years; it is quite certain that these provisions of the law that define the obligation to respect a certain minimum of quality of providing these services are being contributed and that this quality is increasing further. Deregulation is established through the formation of the Republic Telecommunications Agency; it as an independent regulatory body, therefore independent of the state and of the classical state authorities, functionally and legally independently can make decisions and play a crucial role in the development of this area. Given the specificity of telecommunications, it is clear how important it is to depoliticalise the area and deregulated it in this regard. On the other hand, this law also provides for legal certainty for those operators who have exercised certain rights under the previous law, so a sufficient, reasonable time-limit is provided for to comply with the activities, the status of those undertakings and those operators with the existing situation and with the legal provisions, thus ensuring certain rights acquired under the previous law; in this sense this law and how it is understood for operators who traditionally exist on our market. The Republic Telecommunications Agency has two basic functions. As a new institution, it has a regulatory function to adopt general legal acts, so defining the rules in the area of telecommunications, and on the other hand it has individual powers and granting permits at the request of individual operators if they meet the requirements of the law. Therefore, the adoption of acts at the general and individual level, on the one hand, as well as the control function of sanctioning the behaviour of anti-legal provisions, on the other hand; this means the adoption of measures and the establishment of sanctions for those operators who possibly abuse or in an unprofessional or unlawful manner perform this assigned function. This agency is independent, we have stressed why this is important, and it also has the authority to arbitration in certain disputes, which is also new - not only in this area, but also in general in economic trends in resolving economic disputes at a wider and global level - between operators and operators and users, which, of course, does not lose traditional mechanisms of protection of the rights of the person, administrative dispute, or judicial proceedings, but certainly enables the arbitration of the Republic Agency to speed up the procedure, to be more elastic and to make dispute resolution mechanisms far more efficient. The law establishes, first of all, the principle of legality; therefore, no one can have a licence and deal with telecommunications activity unless the agency has allowed it under the law and established criteria, except for certain telecommunications networks of special purpose, of wider social, or state interest, as with the military or police; or private telecommunications networks in certain closed systems if they can function only if they are tied through a certain telecommunications network. The third form is, of course, if the law provides that it is possible to establish in a given area a telecommunications network without having to accept it. Equality also establishes the principle that every natural and legal, domestic and foreign person, if they meet the legal requirements, can claim to receive permission to carry out this activity; the law introduces the public in issuing permits and keeping the registers, where it insists on public or, as we often say, transparency in this area, which is also unusually important. Practically, the law defines that a legal entity can only have one public telecommunications network, can build it, can establish it, through the granting of only one permit. Therefore, it strictly prevents the establishment of a monopoly position on the market, provides an open and free market and precisely the quality of this law is that through a reform approach it allows our domestic standards to be harmonised with criteria and legal standards with international standards, legal norms and directives that prescribe mandatory behaviour in this area. Because of these quality laws, the DOS parliamentary club - Serbia's Reform will support and adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29095	Are any of the other representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29096	I find myself invited to respond to a few remarks from those who have read or read not to read. The first point is to comment on MPs on the time of adaptation and alignment with the legislation; when it comes to the Law on Broadcasting, two years, one year more than the case in this law. For those who are deeply concerned about how publicly or secretly what they are saying on the phone, I would remind them to read Article 54, and he says that a public telecommunications operator is required to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the confidentiality and security of its services and he is forbidden to give information on content, facts and conditions of transmission of messages. Article 55: "All activities or the use of devices which are threatened or disrupted by the privacy and confidentiality of messages transmitted to telecommunications networks are prohibited... "Therefore, when it comes to security and privacy of information, you have them in Articles 54 and 55. As far as the Agency itself is concerned, all work and, above all, the financial part of its work is subject to the annual audit, it is found in Article 18 by an independent authorised auditor. Article 20 states that the Agency submits to the Government and the Assembly an annual report on the work, and all information and activities are public in all its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29097	We move to a debate in order of the MPs, and after reporting for a word in search of the Telecommunications Laws proposal. The first registered speaker is the People's Messenger Miroslav Christodulo, and after that, the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29098	Dear auditorium, I believe the bill is in principle a good one and a better solution to telecommunications than it is now in our country. The first 99 members of this law in a normal and legally regulated state will undoubtedly function and be well resolved. The problem is that this law is Serbia, and in Serbia, in fact, a good part of corruption was present right in the area of telecommunications, and that corruption will have to be eradicated in some ways. There are anti-corruption solutions in this law and it will lead to the eradication of corruption in the area of telecommunications. Also, this controversial monopoly, i.e. exclusive rights to the public fixed telecommunications network of Telekom Srbija, there are until 9 June 2005, have been well resolved in article 109 of the law. First of all, it is not a "cemented" monopoly but can be changed with the consent of the founders, practically the state of Serbia. In fact, who intends to exploit the telecommunications network can build today to start exploiting it on June 10th 2005, when the monopoly expires; that's very well done. This reduces the monopoly, to the extent that if, you imagine, tomorrow, we cancel the monopoly, someone who would like to deal with the team would have to invest first year or two in construction and couldn't even start before 2005 with exploitation. In a sense, it's a very good solution and I support it. The amendments, which I have submitted, mostly refer to the same things the government has proposed, so the same are our intentions. My amendments correct or strengthen the government's intentions. This applies primarily to the Republic Telecommunications Agency; I believe that in principle, it is a good concept for this agency to be independent. Unlike the Democratic Party of Serbia, and yet supporting the government, I think there are very good reasons why the agency should be independent, as proposed in Article 11; I have proposed a whole new member of the 11th, and I will explain it later. The specific composition of the Management Board, the selection of its members and the process of proposing them shall aim to ensure the professional, impartial and objective decision-making of the Management Board of the Agency, that regulatory body in the field of telecommunications. I think that the concept is essentially good, independent, and it should exist, and that's exactly what I want us to step up, and that's why I'm proposing this new Article 11. I will explain this in detail, and now, in principle, I have proposed a model already applied to the selection of members of the council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency and, based on it, on the choice of the regulatory body and in the area of telecommunications. I think that some of the provisions of this law, essentially anti-corruption, are well written, and for others I think they can be improved, and in that sense I have submitted amendments to Articles 20, 42, 52 and 56. As far as the antimonopolis character of the law is concerned, it is generally well solved; some solutions could be strengthened, and above all I think of Article 87. In this sense, this law should be supported, whether these amendments will be adopted or not, because Serbia will finally become normal in this area, therefore, telecommunications. If not after the adoption and the entry into force of this law, then surely in June 2005, when the monopoly finally expires, i.e. The exclusive rights of Telekom Srbija to use a public fixed telecommunications network.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29099	The word has been made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, followed by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29100	The Telecommunications Act should, in essence, define the role of the state in such a significant area and the interest of citizens. This law, which was delivered to us by the Government, is based on the experience of countries in transition, adapted to our terms, as the promoter put it here, but apparently did not use those experiences which are and how valuable. There were stories here about the 1997 PTT Transformation Act. What happened then? In 1997, by transforming PTT into a part called Telecommunications, there was a transfer of significant financial resources used by the regime at the time by the government to settle some social needs, which is what we already know, and the regime at the time was thinking that it would gain citizens' trust and extend its power. What was that called? It was then called a transformation in line with the European trend in the functioning of public, public-communal enterprises, and in this case PTT. What's essentially done? Just what the current law proposes, and you can freely put a sign of equality between the transformation of PTT to Telekom and what the government calls deregulation. The promoter says deregulatory is the removal of regulatory function, which is the removal of the draft law called the Agency. What happened in 1997, and who gained the greatest benefit? The greatest benefit came from the regime at the time, i.e. the people directly involved in the transfer, the privatisation of Telekom and the intermediaries. Who was the biggest loser? The biggest losers were citizens. What was the budget or government then? It was literally a flow account through which the funds were partially distributed, divided for pensions, and it turned out that everyone was at a loss, I mean the citizens of Serbia. What's this here? The same, the exact same, just a different name. If the deregulation is provided through the agency, then it will be the same as the agency is under direct control of the government. How? By proposing the composition of members of the agency. How's the congregation's ingenuity? Not at all. The minister says once a year. Countless reports in this assembly were related to the business of telecommunications, i.e. the financial report when it comes to ino-partners. What was then established? It was established according to the reports at the time that everything was regular, that there was no doubt, the money that was received was spent in investments; however, time has shown that it was not by chance, but was just spending money in private pockets. Now we also need to experience this government, that at the end of the term of office of the people, when others come, then we will find that this agency has served to launder money. It is interesting to mention in this law, as in many laws, so-called. equality. In some proposals of the law, this was heard as competitiveness. Don't always say the same thing. I guess the public in Serbia also recognized what it was hiding behind that competitiveness or equality. You don't think anyone's going to believe that all the participants are equal. We are all aware of the fact that since there is no choice in the competition, those who are the most financially powerful succeed in the tender. As Mercator, as many mega-markets are, so is this area and so will those who are the most financially powerful. What about those who will participate in the tender, that is the essence and you need to give an answer. Their role is to participate in the tender, buying primarily tender documentation, paying huge fees and everything that is involved in the tender, filling in some way the state budget and that is the essence; and they are privileged and you have, after all, directly or indirectly recognised, because the minister said that the law, or contract signed with the ino-partners, shareholders of Italy and the Greeks, is above the Constitution and the law. Those are your words, Madam Minister or Minister, as you're called in the new speech. So there is a commitment to these shareholders, and the new shareholders will be privileged because in the tender, they will participate the biggest. To make it clearer, it's going to happen in frequency allocations; who's going to get frequencies, who's going to be able to use the services -- the ones that are the biggest. The minister said last night -- it's going to be RTS, because RTS is the only one that meets the requirements. I have no doubt, nor reason to suspect it was because the RTS journalist interviewed you, but as a minister you should now have equal criteria, not in advance to take a stand. What if it were a reporter for Pink, would they say it's Pink who meets the conditions? Therefore, there is no equality, there is no difference between this law and the 1997 PTT Transformation Act. You know what the fundamental difference is -- it's just other names and last names in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29101	The word has been made by MP Zoran R. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29102	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I think that none of the MPs here in the Serbian Parliament dispute the need to discuss such a law, given that the previous law, regardless of the corresponding changes, was adopted 10 years ago and that, in the meantime, there have been major changes, or rather, the introduction of new technologies that this law is currently treating. I don't want to talk about the Internet right now, cell phone, stuff like that. However, if we are already talking to that law, I think it is necessary, and here we are calling for European experiences, to try to bring this law and these European experiences to the maximum, and not to bring this law into line again after a few months or a year under the form of transparency of reform or forced to the request of the Council of Europe in line with those elements that are currently not treated, or better to say, not in line with some European principles. First of all, Article 3 and some new issues that have not been treated here are not regulated in principle: and when it comes to the liberalisation of regulations, market liberalisation, infrastructure in this area and public telecommunications. Of course, I think even from that position we need to install these elements, so that this law can be discussed seriously. Secondly, there have been a lot of words about the agency, but what is currently being done by the Assembly through the adoption of this law -- it is, in fact, what is its authority and the greatest obligation, to deal with this area, which is not only a matter of regulation, some legal norms, but it should be some development potential of Serbia in the area of telecommunications, and it is some development, some economic perspective of this state, it does not literally transfer it to the government, but rather some agency elected by the government. Let’s even do this agency’s work, but in that case it would be logical for this agency, which is said to be elected by experts, to be elected by this assembly and to be in fact subordinated to this assembly, not to the Government. On a proposal from the government, members of the board of directors are also elected, and in fact this agency is run by the government. For example, pursuant to Article 5, in the area of telecommunications, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Telecommunications Affairs, adopts policy and strategy etc. When it comes to "Telecom" or better to say about a fixed network, and even about a mobile, missing one element, there is a necessary segment, if we want a balanced development of the Republic of Serbia. I think that this assembly has an obligation to think about how it will treat everyone equally built, whether they live in a den (so that these people will not be offended) or in downtown Belgrade. Of course, we're now talking transparently here that everyone is equal, that they can all be the owners of a fixed network. The objectively, this law stems from, and also from what Serbia has in the potential of a fixed network, that no one but Telecom will be (when I say Telecom), I'm not talking about ownership relations, because ownership relationships can be changed, now the owner of the state is over 50%, tomorrow it can be more or less, it's less important) on this market interested in creating a new fixed network. Of course, it's theoretically possible, and practically, economically and however you want, it's not realistic, let's not be honest with each other, let's not talk about something that's a complete fiction, given the number of subscribers, the possibility of all of it. So it's not real. But even if there is a possibility that it can be realistic, even in these conditions, it is necessary here in law to predict for one who has a monopoly, and that is now Telecom, or one who has a greater market share in the field of fixed network, and I think that it should even apply to the mobile network, that it has an obligation to cover all places in the Republic of Serbia. Let's be realistic about it. Slovenia even imposed that obligation 10 - 15 years ago that PTT had an obligation that each populated place above a certain number of households must be covered by a fixed network. What now, peasants raise money there in the village; first, why would they do that? Now you know, and according to a court ruling in Slovenia, PTT has an obligation to return funds to them in the introduction of these networks. Therefore, it will come here without any dilemma. But why can't a state commit through this law to one who has a monopoly in a fixed network or one who has a dominant market impact, or market share in a fixed network, to cover all inhabited areas with a fixed network. Of course, it can be done in another way, that it necessarily introduces one base station, so that it connects them then into frame territories, where they would pay not at the price of a mobile network, but at the price of a fixed network. If there is an extraprofit of a dominant house such as Telecom, when someone with a fixed network in their hands has profit, it must have the obligation of this assembly and the obligation to resolve some issues related to the citizens of Serbia, I guess with the wish of the assembly to keep these citizens in that territory, not to move and to empty Serbia. Exactly, for example. With you, in your place, there's no way that these peasants can raise enough funds to cover that area unless the state intervenes. The state should intervene by obliging whoever is dominant to invest funds and cover the area. It's not regulated by this law now. Now I'm talking about this law, how you're going to solve it, and that's even relevant to the mobile network, and when it comes to public speakers. If this were to be resolved, then whoever has extraprofit would have the obligation to invest from that extraprofit (when I say extraprofit, it is not in a negative sense, but in a positive sense, and the extraprofit is in that it has a monopoly) into the development of networks and covers Serbia's territory with all these obligations that we want. Of course, when it comes to these other issues, we have submitted an appropriate number of amendments and we think that, if these amendments were accepted, this law could be in line with European standards. In that case, we could support this. But if the minister does not accept these amendments, we cannot support something that is not in line with the European standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29103	The People's Messenger Radmilo Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29104	Dear MPs, we are considering the law proposed in December of the month by emergency procedure. He was on the Assembly agenda after nearly five months, and we didn't even know that today this law would be on the agenda. Even yesterday at the Ministry, they thought the law was going in a regular manner, not an emergency procedure. I can understand the desire and need of the government and the ministries to adopt as many laws as possible, that such a law should be passed, but I think it could go on in a month, by regular procedure, where these dilemmas and these shortcomings could be corrected in the meantime. One of the previous speakers said, I agree with that, that Internet and cable TV should be a special chapter in this law. We see that the agency has unlimited powers, but I don't think the law is dedicated enough to pay attention to criminal measures, because we know that Internet and cable TV can lead to abuse and these abuses can bring great funds to the user. I think that the law should pay particular attention to and add regulation on the construction of cable networks and further that this law has been amnesty to so far for internet users and cable TV; and we know that so far there has been a lot of chaos in the area, so I fear that this chaos is not being passed and when this new law is passed. Also, it was probably given to the agency to decide, but the clear terms of "significant income" or "reasonable income". I don't think we know how much these funds are, because "significant" and "reasonable" income doesn't mean anything to us. I would also agree with previous speakers that this law does not have a legal obligation for users and operators to build networks where it is not commercially cost-effective. It is likely that the legislator thought that not all the funds of the agencies were going to go into the budget, but that the agency from them would help and finance these non-commercial networks. We don't see it here in the law, and we don't know who's gonna take over. We see in the law that the Agency is obliged to set that maximum time limit, after the application of the technical examination facilities to use or the work permit. It should be noted that if, in addition to this much authority, the Agency does not issue a permit within that time limit, the user who submitted the documentation may start working without the Agency's permission. A public telecommunications operator may require the right to pass over other people's land. It used to be called a higher interest. You can't see from the law he's demanding it from, whether it's from the agency, the Ministry or the Government. You have to tell who he's applying for. A provision that the Agency may order the owner of the network to resign or issue a permit to two or more telecommunications operators I believe is already entering into ownership relations. I don't think that's necessary. Since the agency was given the license here, one of the predecessors said this wasn't a license, this is a concession. Basically, the license is just a right to be able to do something, but it doesn't have to mean I get that job. If the law of the agency has already given the right to grant concessions, I think it was in this law that a whole chapter should be dedicated to designing, designing and building telecommunications facilities. The bill does not mention a single word of obtaining a building permit. The Telecommunications Law should define the area as a whole, including even the issue of building permits for all telecommunications facilities. From my personal experience, I have data that, if you need a telecommunications facility to be built, you're also asking for consent from the Energogas, from the EPS, the Road Directorate, etc. I think the law has a lot of drawbacks, that it was better to have been put in a regular procedure and that before that procedure we fixed some things.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29105	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29106	The SRS stance on this very important law today was presented by our representative Zoran Krasic at the National Assembly. He mainly explained all the reasons why the SRS would not vote for the law. First of all, we believe that a strategy for the development of telecommunications should be taken seriously, that is to say, seriously debated, and then set up a framework, that is, a law to see clearly under which conditions this activity will be implemented, how it will develop and on this basis continue with what has already been started in the development of telecommunications. We are opposed to inspection services, or control being out of the ministry's jurisdiction. Professional businesses, related to the development of telecommunications, must be carried out in the resolution ministry. If it is already necessary to create a special organisation or something that would help the work of this system, it is the creation of a commission that would organise some public competitions, determine the conditions and proposition of competition to deal with these affairs. It's who knows who we're legislating, and there's always some agency. Practically, all important jobs are being moved outside the scope of the RES and left to some agencies over which virtually no one or only the Government can have control. This avoids the government's responsibility for possible failures and the public's in the works. And in this case, the agency becomes a monopolies, an independent legal entity functionally independent of any state authority. Then what remains in the power of the ministries and who will control the work of such agencies? I think it's time for the ministries to really commit themselves seriously to their jobs, to do what they're formed for, and to stop avoiding responsibility and to transfer jobs to various agencies. In the end, we will have agencies, we will not have ministries, or we will have agencies that will be dominated by representatives of one political opinion, one political party, and no matter which one of the ministers is sitting in the ministry will be doing these agencies. I think it's really time that, even when some of the following laws are passed, it seems to me that it will be the turn of the railway law, as the minister said today, that we begin to take our affairs more seriously regarding this ministry and that only after serious debate and hearing the opinions of all interested people are these laws being proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29107	The People's Messenger Branko Ruzic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29108	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, the Proposal for a Law on Telecommunications, on the agenda of today's session, is an important system law, treats the issue of national importance. It can be said that it is somewhat more consistent and professionally written, with a defined category machine, which is a small shift compared to the amateur political written information law. However, there are certain gaps, irregularities, as well as elements of rigidity in some of the provisions of the proposed law. The Socialists oppose the essence of Article 5 of the proposed law, to which it is attached and with it is in correlation Article 104. In fact, the area of telecommunications is of strategic national interest to each country and is one of the most profitable resources in terms of modern technological innovation. Thus, the policy and strategy of the development of telecommunications, whose components and plans are intended for the range of radio spectrum and the distribution plan for broadcasting, must be determined by Parliament on a proposal from the Government, not by itself, because this would open the field of possible abuse and manipulation of one of the most significant resources of our country. Also, if the policy of European integration is to be applied in practice, then in the framework of the principle of telecommunications relations regulation, defined by Article 3 of the proposed law, as otherwise derived from the principle of European Parliament and Council of Ministers' legislation in the field of telecommunications, the following points must be incorporated: deregulation and liberalisation of regulations; the liberalisation of the equipment, services and infrastructure markets in the field of telecommunications, the separation of regulatory functions in the area of telecommunications in the power of state authorities from the operational functions of telecommunications infrastructure; the abolition of special and exclusive rights and the establishment of administrative permits for the provision of telecommunications services; the maintenance and development of basic telecommunications services; access to public telecommunications networks and protection of secrets in the area of telecommunications. Also, this bill does not regulate the issue of cable distribution networks for distribution of radio and television programmes. It is indicative and unclear why the government has avoided predicting in Article 17 of the Law that the Governing Board of the Republic Telecommunications Agency makes all decisions by majority vote, so with a minimum of three votes, since it is foreseen that the Management Board has five members in all. Such irregularities also open up the possibility of manipulation, which is not allowed in such an important sphere for a country. It is paradoxical that Article 35(4) states that the numbering is a limited resource, which, of course, is not and cannot be true, because the evidence for it is the North American continent, so the United States and Canada, where the unique numbering for a fixed and mobile phone network, and there, as it is known, is over 400 million subscribers. Also, in the global internet network, numbering is unique for the entire globe and then strangely sounds that Serbia-Montenegro's state union or the state of Serbia has a number as a limiting factor, where there are no 10 million potential subscribers. The social dimension in this law practically does not exist, with a view to predicting that a public telecommunications operator can temporarily suspend the provision of services to the user if within 15 days of arrival, he does not pay cash obligations for the use of services, and does not take into account that most citizens in Serbia are making their right to earn money with a great delay, which is naturally the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who is proposing such unblemished provisions. The intensity of MPs from the SPS parliamentary group was, as our authorised representative, Mr Milos Nesovic, said, to point to indeterminateness, inconsistencies with international legislation in the field of telecommunications and the rigidity of certain provisions, in which executive authorities leave room for manipulation at this resource, which is of strategic national importance. Of course, we have channeled this correction in amendment, but you, like many times so far, have no hearing about anything that would result in a better, more complete and coherent legal solution. That is enough reason for us to have SPS MPs vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29109	There is a word from the People's Messenger, Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29110	Ladies and gentlemen, the most persistent Members of the Parliament, Madam Minister, the esteemed Presidency, before we move on to discussing the topic of our debate today, allow me a few remarks. On the Serbian government site, a discussion was published with the Minister of Transport and Telecommunications on 10 January 2002, so more than 16 months ago, about what has been done and what is planned in areas that are then found to be the concept of disorder, carelessness, collapse. At the time when the money started with budgets and donations to shift to the area of traffic and telecommunications, the public took an interest and asked the minister why he slowly passed the new telecommunications law. The question was: when will the bill be in front of the MPs? The answer was, you probably remember, that the new law has been in preparation for almost a year, the draft has been completed, just pending the adoption of the law at the federal level. After 11 months of this conversation, the government passed the bill, sent it to the Assembly, to be adopted after half a year, as we heard in the opening statement, due to necessity and importance, by an emergency procedure in the pre-war days of a terrible week. And not only that, but still in emergency time. These are facts for future researchers and congregation chroniclers. But I'm going back to the law. The government, like any government, is full of praise for the quality of the law; it says it is reformal, modern, European, in line with international legal standards, anti-monopol, anti-discriminational, solves a number of important issues that regulate and control behaviour in the telecommunications sector today, one of the most promising areas of human activity. The result of this law should be the development of telecommunications in Serbia or the creation of conditions to meet citizens' needs for quality telecommunications services. It is also aimed at introducing order in the field of telecommunications and telecommunications services so that none of the existing telecommunications operators is disabled in further work, provided that new rules of behaviour on the telecommunications market are applied. Is that exactly what this bill is all about? You have heard from Mr. Michael and Mr. Radmil (his last name is currently in The Hague so I do not refer to him) who are the key objections to the DSS that this law cannot be supported by. More than that, it's just the concept of the law with the agency. But not to the agency as a regulatory body, but as a state state, as a body outside all controls; vague relations of licenses, concessions, etc. I would look more closely at just a few important things for me, which are about policy and development strategies in the telecommunications sector. I would also make some critical remarks about the agency and point to incompleteness in the Standards Department, technical examinations, as well as inaccuracies in definitions. I believe that the first few members are quite inaccurately and unsystematically dealing with the principles on which the law is based. Members are missing on policy objectives and development planning in the area of telecommunications. In the introduction, Ms. Minister made it clear what the principles of the law were and I agree with them. However, they are not in the law, only in reason. Article 3 states only what needs to be done. They're not principles. The principle is: the development of telecommunications, meeting the needs of users, etc. It may seem too much like a cleavage, but it seems to me that the law, as a modern regulation, should pay attention to these details as well. Policy, strategy and plans are summarised in Articles 5 and 6. It is said only that the government determines policy in the area of telecommunications, brings a strategy for the development of telecommunications in the Republic and a plan for the purpose of radio spectrum domains. I guess it should have been said: what development policy is in the area of telecommunications and the long-term objectives that this development should achieve. Also mentioned is a strategy for the development of telecommunications in Serbia; it is likely that a strategy for the development of telecommunications is needed in line with policy objectives in this area. Furthermore, the strategy in this area cannot be brought by the government. The strategy is adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government for a period of at least 10 years. So these things are missing here. The strategy must continue to be in line with the development strategy of the Republic of Serbia. Then, there is a missing member who will, for example, be missing. to say how this strategy is being implemented; there is no programme for the implementation of the strategy, which is adopted by the Government, which determines the conditions, laws, deadlines, planned activities. The program is brought for example. for five years, so AP brings its development programme, etc. It seems to me that this is missing, and it was very easy to arrange with a few members in the first part of this law. And not to repeat here Mr. Michael's critical remarks about the agency refer not to the agency as a regulatory body, but to the agency as an organism with enormous competencies and without sufficient control - I'll make a few concrete proposals here. In Article 16, where a conflict of interest is justified, except for restrictions on the election and appointment of the president and members of the board of directors, it may be necessary to place, in a similar manner, Slovenian law, that employees of the agency at least three years before their employment in the Agency should not be employed, nor should they be in contact with organisations in the field of telecommunications activities. I draw attention to the section relating to public telecommunications licenses. It has been said that there are collations, i.e. misunderstandings about the issue of a licence to perform services and concession relations. In the end, what I am more interested in as a technical person in Part 7, standards and conditions for construction, technical examinations and technical permits, I have two basic observations. It is said that the Agency prescribes standards, controls the compliance of the network and facilities with the prescribed standards, issues technical permits and so on. In my view, it should be stated that the technical examinations and other necessary tests to demonstrate compliance, and before certifications are issued, can only be carried out by appropriate authorised institutions; these are appropriate accredited laboratories, i.e. legal or natural persons authorised by the Agency. Such persons shall have the necessary professional workers, measuring instruments, equipment; measurements and tests shall be carried out in spirit and in accordance with technical conditions and standards. Also, in the part that talks about applying regulations and standards, it seems to me that it should be stressed that the JU standards are applied first if they exist and are in line with international standards. If there are no standards, then they're taking over internationally. For decades I've been dealing with phenomenomas that are formed in telecommunications or other facilities due to the operation of power plants in the immediate vicinity. Therefore, I would be a little more careful in Article 90; I would not categorically argue that energy plants must be built, used only if their work does not cause interference in operation. So somewhere they have to exist nearby, one with the other to co-exist. It's not the obligation of the power plant, if it's older and it's already existed, to protect the telecommunications facility. It can provide additional protection measures in accordance with the regulations. I hope the power plant doesn't move just because of one crossing of the phone line. Finally, I have an objection to the definition of number 47 in Article 2 electromagnetic compatibility: it is the ability of telecommunications systems, or means to work satisfactorily in its environment, and only this facility does not create inadmissible electromagnetic interference to anyone else in that environment. This would be a real definition, i.e. it would include a meaning relating to electromagnetic compatibility in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29111	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Kragovic, followed by MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29112	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a bill on telecommunications, which was allegedly proposed to make some rapid progress in the area of telecommunications, which is some strange explanation. The old law is mentioned, and this is the Law on Systems of Relationships adopted as early as June 1991, and it has been overcome. I quote - he does not mention at all, nor does he edit Internet services, interconnection of telecommunications operators, lease lines and others at all, and that is partly true, because the law was passed in 1991. The discrepancy is further stated, with international principles, rules and standards in force in Europe, as if we had some special fixed or mobile telephony that could not have been in communication with Europe. The reasons to give as a justification for the adoption of this law are defined through some two principles and a few principles. The above principles represent general principles and are not clearly defined. First principle: the development of telecommunications. It's a normal thing that's too high. The second principle - to protect the interest of users. We'll talk about this later, because this bill very little treats this particular protection of the interests of the users. By creating a free and open telecommunications market, which is a positive principle and needs more operators to compete with and better conditions for end-users. The formation of the Republic Telecommunications Agency is clear. This isn't the first agency, this is who knows which one and that's what we're used to. The stoics that are all belongings given to this agency are pricked by the eyes. The agency is a specific institution, free and independent, but from who? What is it that needs to be free and independent in one country? In my opinion, it should be just a judiciary, everything else has some kind of mutual connection and must be under some control, if not the other one, then Parliament's control. The National Assembly of Serbia. The agency has a regulatory function, so it can adopt general acts; it has a control and arbitration function, it's the only thing that's normal, because if more operators appear to arbitration between them. In this proposal, it is unclear what is being handled by the collective body that makes all decisions and general acts. Funding the agency -- "principles of funding by the agency from its own sources of income", as if they were the owners of the wealth at its disposal of Serbia, should also be a guarantee of its independence. The Agency will not abuse its independence and independence and will not become a supranational body. What is it, who guarantees that it will not happen exactly the opposite and that the agency will not go into the work of the state authorities, because these powers given by this bill make it totally independent and totally independent. By writing the law, I came across something I disagree with, the SRS also proposed amendments to some members of the IC. For example, Article 33 speaks of types of permits and defines: first - license; second - approval; third - permit for radio station; fourth - technical permits. I think the license is poorly defined and if it's already limited to 20 years, it'd be better to develop a concession. Furthermore, what is confusing is Article 49, which defines universal service, must be provided to end-users of Internet services, and we still cannot provide telephone connections to all interested people in urban areas without talking about villages and rural areas. One of the reasons why this law is supposed to be passed are Internet services, but they're simply not mentioned here, just declaratively through two members. Article 86 defines standards, technical examination and certification. It is again noted, as if not enough for one member to say - the agency is passing a general act, etc. Then, according to article 87, which is very strange, a public telecommunications operator has the right to demand the right to pass over someone else's land or the right to use other people's land. Who gives him that right? It gives him the right to make this bill; and where there is protection of private property, because if he uses something other than it, he has to pay normally. Finally, the protection of users, what I asked to see as one of the users of these telecommunications services, is defined only by one member of the protection and one member of the warning or obligation of the end-user. So, it's a big deal, even the obligation to pay the end-user to the operators is limited to 15 days, and I think it should be moved to 30 days. There are still many members of this very bad bill that the SRS will try to fix through amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29113	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, followed by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29114	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, that's how, while the state of emergency is going on, I only dress up in the brand "Tiffani" from Cačka. There is no Mr. Pajtic or I don't see him, then Mr. Panajotovic, I am procedurally seeking to indicate that the Legislative Committee draws its strength from Article 46. Rules of Procedure. Here is the report of the Legislative Committee divided into two parts: by page 4, amendments are said to be legal; and from there until the end, the Committee decided to propose to the National Assembly to reject amendments; and then 80 of them. The Legislative Committee is not a parent in relation to this law, but a Transport Committee. He draws his strength from Article 55. The Rules of Procedure have also spoken of the amendments submitted. I'd like an explanation on this. Whether these amendments are legally possible or not liked by the Legislative Committee, these are two different things, it is a procedural problem. So we've had a few more similar situations, but this is still about a large number of amendments, and I'd like to ask someone who can answer this question. All that was necessary in connection with this law, on behalf of our parliamentary group SPS, was thoroughly presented by a respected colleague, MP Milos Nesovic. I'd just like a few observations, referring to what came out of today's debate and some personal views on the arguments offered here today. Just now, Mrs. Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic had sex with a national MP about the reliability of ties, so I would like to say that not only in an emergency, but otherwise in every main telephone station there is a so-called. the soup divider; the key to that room is no one from Telekom, and the premises are controlled by people from BIA or from the Serbia MUP Liaison Centre and there can be no talk that citizens are protected from interception. It's a civil order to say here when talking about this law. Therefore, as long as it is so, there is no elemental possibility for Serbian citizens to be sure that they are not listening to phone conversations, and there is no talking about not being abused, and there is no point in being sporded. It's something that's been particularly difficult over the past month to this extent that one day we're going to have opportunities to talk about. There have already been words here that it is not a well-defined quality connection on the Internet; indeed, apart from the ISDN connection, everything else is in technical and any other sense unquality, and I want to point out here that today in Telekom Srbija, in the largest number of units of this company, individual engineers from Telekom to maximum abuse of ISDN connections; if you want parallel, corruption has changed only in what they have previously sought 1,000 marks, and now 1,000 euros. Let those who do this work take care of it. We know well how in our cities we get to these connections and what everything seems to come to them. There's also talk of radio frequencies, about everything that's going on with it. We talked, my colleagues spoke with some other laws and they spoke well; so my colleague, they spoke excellently, thank you for improving. For those who constantly claim that there was a media darkness in our country, that it was not possible to create adequate radio and television stations, I would like to refer them to the experience of Austria, in which no private radio station existed until three years ago, and in order for today to be heard or watched must be such as to cover a million and a half users. It can be easy in Vienna, but it is very complicated to perform on some other areas where population is different. I see that in a rather problematic connotation of a fellow MP, the MPs speak of the privatisation of Telekom in 1997. However, I am obliged to say here that this poor and wake-up privatisation of 49% of the capital was bought after a few years by this government for twice the amount of money. How come something that didn't work out today is bought at twice the price; that's what we need to get an answer about. Is it true that the transfer was made so that practically this state, or JP PTT traffic from Serbia, gave up a significant or absolute piece in Mobtel. Does that mean that we gave up something that makes a profit and bought something that is clearly out of line? In Telekom, there is still a fam that without several hundred or thousands of euros, you cannot get a telephone connection if you live only 10km from the urban environment. Today, when a 10 times lower amount can buy a mobile phone, this thing should once be arranged in a way that is suitable for technology and every other moment, because it really doesn't make sense anymore. Also, just briefly, I end up commenting on today's announcement by Mr. Petrovic, director of Telekom, who says that in this year the price of the impulse will increase by 20%, that the 150 gratis of the impulses that the subscribers had so far, that in 2004, the price of the pulse will increase by another 40% and that we are doing so because there are no such 150 free impulses in our environment, which is otherwise true; only, nowhere in this environment has Telekom's infrastructure been built. I remind you that even today, and especially a few years ago, people were singled out by several hundred or thousands of marks and invested in telecommunications facilities, and when all this ends up in the end, it says that everything they invested in belongs to the JP and that they're just users; if they're not heirs to the first succession order, they can't give their connection or sell to someone, let's say to whom they sell their house and their apartment. Those things need to be fixed. It is not strictly about this law, but it is about the interests of Serbian citizens, and I hope we are here because of the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29115	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29116	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if this bill is read in detail and carefully, then it is simply concluded that the more adequate name of this proposal would be the law on the Republic Agency for Telecommunications. In fact, the complete text offered here refers to this very agency that is set up by this law. It is unclear and illogical to give authority to an agency belonging to the ministry and that it is so self-remained that it is even financially independent. This law does not even provide a framework for the structure of this agency. It is left to someone, and possibly the Government, some of its later acts, to arrange the scope, structure and composition of this agency. The Agency's competencies are defined by Article 9 and they are more precisely explained in 20 points, from which it can be concluded that these competencies are very broad. The Agency literally assumes the full competence for telecommunications areas from setting conditions, assignments of frequencies, controls and even the adoption of standards and technical regulations. This agency is financially independent and has its own income. It has its own incomes on its own, so that this bill goes even to the point of determining the minimum amount of compensation received by a member of the Management Board of the Agency. It is said here in Article 13 that members of the board of directors who are not in a working relationship in the agency cannot have a fee less than the salary of the Serbian Supreme Court judge. Simply amazing, a man who has his job, his professional obligations in another company, has the right income for it, gets membership on the board of directors of this agency's salary, which is minimally equal to the salary of the Serbian Supreme Court judge. Also, Article 17 states that profit from the chairman of the board of directors is not subject to the law on the earnings of employees in state authorities. So there's an exception, an exception from all the other state authorities. Article 23 discusses how this agency's decisions are made, and Article 3 says the agency's decision is final. This means that there is only the possibility of administrative proceedings before the appropriate court; there is no second-degree body, nor is it a ministry, nor is it a government, but a direct judicial procedure. Since the trial, at least in our terms and after all of your reforms, continues to last forever, the question of how smart this decision is and whether it might be necessary to consider determining at least the government as a second-degree body to solve complaints about the decisions of this agency. Chapter III refers to authorisations for public telecommunications networks and public telecommunications services; literally, here, if read in detail, there is no mention of any criteria for obtaining these permits. The criteria for obtaining permits are left to the agency and will define the criteria for obtaining permits for some of its acts. I think it's inadmissible and it needs to be changed so that at least some basic criteria here are defined by law. It is also illogical that the amount of compensation paid by interested persons for obtaining licences and the permit is not prescribed by this law, at least the initial amount of compensation, is already left to the Agency, that it itself defines the amount of compensation, and the initial, and later annual amount, when a particular person gets a license for the corresponding jobs. Furthermore, this law does not specify the conditions for the withdrawal of licences, but it is in Article 41 that it is inaccurately left so that it can be drawn up, interpreted in various ways, and will again, by means of its act, regulate it, namely to determine or determine the conditions for the withdrawal of the licence. It follows from all of this that this agency is completely independent, financially and in any other respect, and functionally, both from this assembly and from the Government of the Republic of Serbia; however, there remains something that is not said here precisely and directly, which is this political relationship or addiction. The agency will be politically dependent on this government, as the government proposes members of the agency's board of directors. So, it will be politically dependent and paramount to this government, so that it can deal with those who are not for this regime or reward them by giving permission to those who served this regime faithfully during the previous period, by giving them appropriate radio frequencies, or other permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29117	The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29118	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the use of the telecommunications system, given the degree of technological development, is beyond the need and the right of all citizens in both our country and the world. In the context of the development of the telecommunications system, our country has invested significantly in the development of this network in the area of Kosovo and Metohija in the past 1212 period as part of its territory. However, this right and the need for citizens, above all, Serbs-Montenegrons in Kosovo and Metohija, have been unable to implement and use it for four years, so I would like to ask Mrs. Minister whether this part of the telecommunications system is today considered a unique part of Serbia's telecommunications system or abroad? Why do I ask this - I ask first of all because as a state we are obliged to take care of a unique telecommunications system, because this country has invested in these projects, in buildings and in the primary network, and in part in a secondary network, to help the people down in the more even development of this segment of society. What's going on - today's situation on this plan is catastrophic. First, the Serbian people in these Serb environments (some call them enclaves, which is a wrong term for me) are extremely discriminated against, because above all from Kushner, Hekerup, and today Steiner is denied the right to establish connections with the world. In addition to being denied the right to free life, to free movement, their right to contact the world has been denied, because their zeros have been abolished and cannot be called. Only people from other parts of our country and on the side to invite them, and they can't. Only a small number of people have the privilege of calling, calling. So the mass of people has no connection to the world. And they took part in providing funds for the construction of secondary networks, investing their money, their resources. Unfortunately, they can't use that right today. The particular question is mobile phone. The "Telecom" of Serbia unfortunately did not make use of Kosovo and Metohija. The "Mobtel" partially covered Kosovo and Metohija, and some areas are not covered at all. That's why space was given first by Kushner skillfully used, so 1212 was inserted by foreign mobile networks, primarily "Rooming", "Alcatel", and by God a Macedonian network. And to make the absurd bigger, besides that these people can't call, if one of the relatives from central Serbia calls on the mobile phone, whether it's Telecom, or the mobile fixed number down there, he pays the impulses "Mobtel" or "Telecom", but that user down there who's invited, neither guilty nor due, because his relatives are worried about asking if he's alive and healthy, he has to pay for the roming "Alcatel" or the Macedonian network, huge money, and they're tearing them apart. Madam Minister, through the Government and the Coordination Centre, through the UNMIK representative, please intervene to allow these people the right to normal communication. The last question is about radio stations, but right now I wouldn't talk about it, because I think this is a burning question, it's about communication, it's about that second segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29119	There's a word from the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although there are no more than 50 MPs in the O.R., we decided to work until 20.00 hours, so I won't object, although I have the right to do so without a quorum. Let it go to the chairman's soul, who must take care of it. I would like to ask the Minister if he is able to answer that question - which is still a country in Europe and in the world left such an important area to another body, as she has done or will do after the vote of this law to our country, leaving to this famous agency all the jobs in the area of telecommunications, because through that board of directors, the agency will practically have unlimited powers. And you said it nicely, and the law shows that the agency has a regulatory, control and function of 1212arbitre between the operators themselves, so now the question is, can public authorities at all, since they're reserved for state authorities, to be transferred to such superintendents, that is, why are we going to form a special ministry? Every minister struggles to have as much jurisdiction as possible, at least some experience has so far shown, and I expect that after the adoption of this law on the agenda, we have an amendment to the Ministry Act, in which your ministry will only retain the authority of the Ministry of Transport, because it will have nothing to do with telecommunications anymore. You say this agency is funded from its own income, and only in the first year will it be supported by funds from the budget, which is absurd when we know that the budget is projected with 43 billion deficits. Then where's the reserve coming from, and how's it going to work? You also said in your exposé that you hoped that this agency would not be above the state authority. What you're hoping for, we don't have any of it. We can hope, too, but from the provisions of the law, we see that's what she wants it to be. The selection of board members will depend solely on party membership. Besides, we'll have a chance to see for ourselves. That raises the credibility of that organ. We of the SRS are against this concept and we think it's a complete failure. We understand that you had to move within some of the rules and directives of the European Union, but also this European Union and that council at our country's level on telecommunications, in its dispute with the government, always put before your name Mr. Drago Hiber, who was apparently the president of that body that was being prepared by the law, so that he was the authorized legislator of this law and not you and your Ministry. The ministry will not have any responsibility in this area, and you have tried to convince us that the Assembly will have the right to consider the report of this agency, which is obliged to be submitted to both the Government and the Parliament. I ask you and the MPs what are we going to do with that report? (President: Four minutes, which has run out of time. ( ) What are the consequences of considering this report and whether anything in this sphere can be fixed? On all other issues, we will in particular, given that we have succeeded, although this is how the session is scheduled, without the pre-known agenda, to write over 40 amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29121	National MP Dragan Todorovic is not there, MP Milutin Svetovic is not there. The word has a National MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Milan Radulovic. He is the last registered speaker in a row of MPs, and according to reports for a word in search of the Telecommunications Law proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29122	The Honorable Presidency, Ms. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reasons for my announcement are to try to resolve some of the dilemmas together and get answers to some of the questions that are being raised by an analysis of the proposed telecommunications law. In that sense, I would first start with questions that impose on the study of the authority of state authorities in the area of telecommunications, advocating competence from the Agency's portfolio. Thus, Article 5 states: "In the area of telecommunications, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Telecommunications Affairs, establishes a policy in the area of telecommunications and brings a Telecommunication Development Strategy in the Republic and a Plan for the purposes of radio frequency ranges." Then: "The Ministry is authorised to prepare a proposal for a strategy", etc. So we see what government powers are. On the other hand, we see what the powers of the Ministry are, but we don't see from what the powers of the Assembly are or what should be the powers of the Assembly, except as it's been suggested here, to nominate and raise our hand. If something by definition is a strategy and this is the development of a telecommunications system, I think it's essential and that a decision on a strategy should be made by the Assembly, and I'm not going to get into who's going to prepare it now and who's going to implement that technology -- what's the government going to do in that sense, what's the government going to do? If something is strategic, if something is essential, if something in itself must be the highlight of the collection of documents, regulations, actions, activities etc. That development is to be decided by the Assembly or at least should have the opportunity to make a statement. We don't see it from this. The third thing, whenever we talk about some new law or the need to pass a new law, with the already classic attributes of "reform" we say right away - that all of this would be effective and we would be able to implement this agency. This isn't the only agency to be added here. Maybe the agency should exist, maybe it's actually more effective, just from what I read here, I don't see why it's more effective. Maybe it's a movement, maybe it's a worldwide trend, but we should know who it is by now, until we had an agency, doing these jobs and these activities in the jurisdiction of the agency. If this has been done by the competent ministry so far, and I think it is, then should we say what is now changing in that ministry, how much is the number of employees, if it decreases, does the organisational structure of these and such ministries change? We know what an organisational structure is, that now from this pay phone we're not developing a thesis on what it is and what it's supposed to look like. If that's what it's supposed to be, then it's also got to be stabilized somewhere. Again, I think it should be stabilized here, in this law, not in any regulation or on any other side, if that's what we've been doing. If we haven't, then it's said -- we've never done those jobs before, so we need an agent. It's a logical explanation and it can be accepted without further ado. Whether and to what extent the agency is independent, and so on, I'm going to finally, because I want to quote Article 7 and one of the provisions where the agency is also spoken of, so you're going to see clearly the contradiction of Article 7 and what it says. It's clear to all of us that the deura agency is independent, and that de facto it isn't, but let's just say it in an explanation. We're serious people, we're not children. Let MPs also use the brain as a thought apparatus, not just because it would be the subject of manipulation. I'd like to ask you some more questions, if I were to say in a manner by the ny or by the way, I'd like to ask. I'm sorry I don't speak plain language. One of these issues is related to the term of office of members of the Management Board. It's here in Art. 12. says, "The president and members of the Management Board are elected for a period of five years, with the president being appointed for five years, two members for four and two members for three years." I'm asking again -- what's the criterion for it to be five, why isn't it seven? If it were seven, would it now be a regression, so President five, two four, two three and two members for two years. If it's some mathematical legality, we know it's that. If it's something else, then let's know what else it is. Nothing's disputed. That's easy to solve. Next thing you know, here in Art. The 13th is said: "The board members have the right to compensation for working on the board of directors, which cannot be less than the salary of the Supreme Court judge." I'm asking-- what's the criterion? Why not the Constitutional Court, why not the District Court, why not the Court of Appeal? Is that something we don't know, and it makes sense. So we need to explain that. We've already said in the context of the amendment that we don't think that what's called numeration is a limited resource, because we don't know such a practice, even from what we know is in the US, Canada and elsewhere. Maybe it's not there, and maybe we should be here and ask again why we're asking for an explanation. Finally, I would like to give your attention to the definition that a Republic agency is being established as an independent, independent organisation, which exercises public authority, in accordance with these laws and regulations, and its financial plan is approved by the Government. Her board of directors is proposing the government, and we're adopting it here. Finally, it is said, the proposed mechanisms should ensure and enable the Agency's independence and achievement, to the fullest extent, its function as a regulatory body. However, the appropriate proposed solutions, such as the obligation of consistent application of the Telecommunications Development Strategy, judicial control of the Agency's work, etc., allow it not to be a "superstate authority" and not to abuse its position, so I say - e, toast her to such independence. Of course, we have tried to improve this by appropriate remarks and amendments, because our intention wasn't to push it to the end, but to point out, if it's already reformal, progressive, then we make another little effort, we accept these amendments to the SAA, and then we get a law that we can say will be the foundation of the future development of the telecommunications system in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29123	National MP Milan Radulovic, as the last registered speaker, is not present. Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have time to address at their disposal? No, I don't. ) If not, I hereby conclude the search in principle and agree with Article 136(3). I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29124	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that article 1 expand. I'll just mention what to get into that article. First, to be said that this law should be in line with the Constitution of the International Telecommunications Alliance and the International Convention on Telecommunications of the European Parliament and the Council. The member shall be without reference to concessions, licences, approvals and authorisations for the performance of the activity. No mention of numbering, standards and conditions for the exploitation of telecommunications, protection of subscribers. I suggest in the amendment that all of this be put in Article 1 and he would vote as I wrote it. The explanation is very brief, I have quoted everything that needs to be entered into that article, in order to be complete and adapted to something that would suit the needs of this law more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29125	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The same article was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29126	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed that the amendment delete the words "Republic Telecommunications Agency" in Article 1. If we remember a bit of the introduction of the bill's promoter, or Mrs. Minister, that opening point lasted about 7 minutes, and the Republic Telecommunications Agency lasted about 6 minutes, so we're discussing the rest of the law for one minute. I was under the impression this wasn't about the telecommunications law, it was about the bill on the Republic Telecommunications Agency. To make things worse, it seems to me that Mrs. Minister doesn't know his job in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or thinks this is some kind of television show, where there's an unsettling host and an auditorium who doesn't understand anything about it, so here is all sorts of untruths, which are the result of ignorance or intent. First, when it comes to funding the Republic Telecommunications Agency, he said it would be financed from its own revenues. However, as far as I understand the budget, these own revenues of the Republic Telecommunications Agency are now the original revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So you will continue to finance from the budget reserve temporarily, and we MPs here in the Serbian Parliament know that the accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget have been blocked. This raises the question, how will it be financed from the deficit budget. Even if there are truths that will be financed on its own, in any case, the agency must appear in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As far as the agency is concerned, it is an impression that it is an adjudication in this government, that every minister must have his own agency, which will take care of something. According to my colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic, this would appear to be now called the Ministry of Transport, as a matter of principle, my concern is to move on to another because you are probably too busy paved by paved roads across Serbia with Cumet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29127	He has the word of authorised SRS representative Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29128	It is the amendment of the SRS to the first member of this law. It is an introductory member who, as a rule, defines the subject matter of the law. Unfortunately, this definition, in addition to the principled objection presented by the SRS, as regards the agencies, contains other shortcomings. If this article already lists what is governed by this law, then it is simply incomprehensible how you dropped in the first article to write at least to edit and protect the rights of users. That's what you have in Chapter 8, that's how you titled it - user protection. So, in this introductory article, you don't even have that indication. The first sentence begins with the finding, of course with the call for international standards, the conditions and the way in which it works. The law regulates, regulates the conditions and the way in which it works, as a regulation for rights and legal interests. It's okay. But when you read your bill, except for a few provisions, which regulate the way you do things, you hardly have any provision on the conditions needed to meet in order to deal with that activity. You only have the reference provisions to the control body that would prescribe it. That would look plastic. It would be something like this, if we went from assuming that all MPs were drivers and had driver's licenses, would you be involved in traffic if you didn't know the pre-known rules of conduct. Of course no one would participate, because there's no elemental security. If I tell you, you'll be involved in traffic, with when you get to the intersection and when you find a police officer, he'll tell you what rules apply. Then only the chosen ones will get into that risk of sitting down and driving a car. That traffic agent is the Republic Telecommunications Agency. That is why we propose to delete from Article 1 the establishment of this agency. It is possible that one law establishes something called an organization or more, an authority entrusted with the law to exercise public authority. Everything you've given to this agency in the following provisions of the law, it goes beyond public authority, there are powers to adopt general acts as binding, standards are adopted, public competition is conducted, licences are granted, monopolies are regulated, monopoly suppressed, first-degree, second-degree, third-degree proceedings are conducted, etc. If you already want to imitate the West, bear in mind that the agency in Germany is not the same as the agency in Serbia. It's not about the space, because of jurisdiction, because of the legal-political system. You can change as much as you want the Constitution, but these provisions on the importance and transfer of public powers can hardly change for one simple reason, which the environment doesn't deserve to be painted, to be like in Germany, Austria or France. When you prescribe something and you convince us that it is in line with modern European flows, then say that in France, the minister brings a permit, not an agency, the minister brings an act allowing someone to deal with some work. Of course, France is a democratic country. We from this position and our legal logic can criticise the French constitution, but no one can challenge democracy in France. So, respect these specificities that are present, because this law is applied in this environment, in this real sphere, in the existing state and the law should be applicable. And not a traffic man who waits at the intersection and regulates, and you do not know what he regulates.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29129	Five minutes. Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Velimir Simonovic and MP Rada Bajic submitted. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29130	In the amendment, I propose that Article 2 only expand a little, avoiding the possibility that the provisions of the telecommunications law do not apply to the cable network intended for distribution of radio-television programmes. By the way, this is a alignment with the text of Article 4(2) point 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29131	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the deputy president, the SRS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29132	This amendment is a good reason for the proposer to be introduced into matter and into the problems that followed him in the next members. What is really commendable in this article, which is that you have beautifully written and equalized legal and physical persons with regard to the possibility of performing certain activities. You're here for four spears in front of the Public Information Act. In the case of the Public Information Act, this right is denied by natural persons, i.e. it is indirectly given to them if they are the founders of a legal person. It's commendable. Be assured that in at least ten members, especially when you talk about related subsidiaries and use at the same time in addition to words - a legal person or a natural person, and at the end of a specific member enter text, can perform a connected addict. It doesn't go with each other, because a physical person in a business life can't have his own addictive face. It's that termological error, you have it in four members carried out. You're saying it only applies to a legal person. I judge by who is going to apply this law, so it can be interpreted one way or another to deny the rights for one simple reason, which this law contains neither the conditions nor the way to regulate the exercise of certain actions. Since we as a legislative body should work with the quorum, so that we respect each other and, of course, the representatives of the executive government, because this is rare that the Executive Authority is in this assembly, within the meaning of Article 82(2), I suggest that we provide a quorum so that we can continue to work, because this is not how it makes sense to work. This isn't about 40-50 MPs, it's about something more serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29133	On the proposal of the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and on the basis of Article 82(6), it is not position 2, but well, I ask the National Assembly to establish a quorum for work. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29134	I urge you, in the sense of Article 6, to provide us with a computer record of who was present when the quorum was determined, because even with an eye when the count is counted there is not as much as there is on the screen. Well, let's see, please, who puts in other people's cards and who... Can I answer him? [[Sagar.]] No need, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29135	I ask the MPs not to earn, since the speaker showed respect for the Rules of Procedure and did not answer from the pay phone. At the request set out above, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group will receive a computer copy of the quorum determination. Is anyone else answering for a word in the debate on members of the 2nd and amendment of the People's MPs Velimir Simonovic and Radet Bajic, are there others reported? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word from Parliament MP Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a telecommunications law in its provisions of Article 3 provides for principles based on regulation of relations in the area of telecommunications. We in the SRS believe that certain principles here presented in the provisions of Article 3 should not stand for the entire area of telecommunications. In the amendment, I provided that points 1) and 2) of the proposed principles of this Article of the Law are deleted because the definition of points 1) and (3) may rather be the reasons for the creation of preconditions and conditions in the telecommunications area, because the principle that should go beyond the whole law in terms of consistency should stand at these points. In the same amendment, I suggested that at point 5 of this article, the word "maximum security" be replaced by the words "minimum guarantee". What's this about? It is also necessary to provide for a certain standard in this area of telecommunications under which it will not be possible to go about regulating areas of telecommunications, networks, services etc. Under that standard, this area couldn't work. Of course, by developing technology in the telecommunications area, the standard can be higher in quality than it is now. Therefore, first of all, I would say that on this point of Article 3 of this point, and in the system of principles and principles of the whole of this article, it may even be accepted from the reasoning that you have given.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29137	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29138	With this amendment, we wanted to clear this article from something that is not the place in this article, because points 1) and (2) are not really principles. The principle of definition is some principle, some rule of conduct that regulates the way things are done, the accepted way of doing things, but this is about desires that, eventually, in some way, can be goals that want to be achieved. That place isn't here. When something like principle or something promotes itself, then it's always said, minimum, and never maximum, because the maximum is something that is limited, it's always tending to it. If in the beginning it is said that it is necessary to ensure maximum, and there are no technical options, in our telecommunications network there are no possibilities, it is quite evident, then the word - the most practically does not mean anything, but should change to make it a minimum of something possible, something that provides normal, decent, optimal functioning, etc. It is likely that there should have been room within this member for some principles, some of the principles that you use in that second part when it comes to radio stations and radio frequencies, because this is an introductory member; you provide principles on which the whole law is based, so there is no need to specifically group the principles for telecommunications, and especially for this second part, which is also the subject of regulation of this law. As far as these principles are concerned, I think you've had to install some other principles that commit from the point of view of the process of exercise of law, the process of protection of interest, much more significant, and what you've stated as a misdemeanor, if observed until the final events and through all the provisions of this law, you're not consistent. You are not consistent, because very often you have provisions that cannot be said on which principle they are based, but rather rest on a wish. The wishes are something in the policy domain, possible, but when it comes to the law, when it comes to law, then there's not much room for wishes, but for dry norms some time, but norms, rules that must be followed and principles define the spirit of the law, the spirit of the law. There's no such thing here. It's probably the reason for these hundreds of amendments, not to count that group of amendments around the province, because it hasn't worked out any of these alleged principles until the end, and you're saying this law rests on them. Believe me, when something is translated, in their language this has a completely different meaning. I'm just glad you didn't translate something from the Western European legal system, because it's quite possible that some of the things that we have reserved for the law, with them the minister regulates their directives, very important areas. If in some translation they were to turn it into our legal-political system, it would be chaos, it would be self-will, it would be dictatorship, and it would be interpreted because of the importance of our legal system and the incompatibility of two political systems. That has to be taken care of. Once, the public company of PTT traffic, which you know, took care of legal norms, were careful not to exceed some powers, even when they were the greatest monopolies, brutal monopolies, the only, practically the only public enterprise that conducted everything and everything. They did stick to some principles, though. I have to say that district courts, even in administrative disputes over trespassing, have made very often judgments against Telekom, especially when it comes to office, real burdens, etc. This is how you devalue it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29139	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Mucic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are there any reported participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Stanimirovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Are there any reported participants in the debate? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The same Article of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Transport and Connection Committee proposes that it be rejected, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. An authorised representative of the Assembly is not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) At the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Links, the amendment to Article 5 was withdrawn by MP Velimir Simonovic. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's MP, Verica Radeta, submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostreš. The government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of Glava II, subtitles above Article 7 and to Article 7 of the amendment were submitted by MP Branislav Vakic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Telecommunications, which reads as follows: "The name of Chapter II of the Republic Telecommunications Agency, subtitle 1. Legal status - establishment and Article 7 is deleted." The Serbian Radical Party opposes the establishment of the agency and believes that all professional and inspection tasks must be carried out by the Ministry, or the authorities of the ministry. There's no state in the world that leaves such important jobs, telecommunications jobs to some so-called. to independent agencies. The Serbian Radical Party is calling on MPs to accept this amendment. We think it would be best for the government to withdraw this law, fix it and deliver it in the amended text to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29141	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29142	For principle reasons, we suggest that this member and this whole chapter be deleted, but since you've already made a political agreement and this member will probably pass, just to kindly warn you, on page 6, the introductory phrase - as an independent, or independent organization. When you say it on your own and you put it on a tight, or whatever, then the word independent should be synonym for the word in front of the comma. That's impossible in our legal-political system. I don't know who wrote you this. Only courts are independent and independent bodies. You said here - the agency is independent, or independent. You interpret this "or" as "or." She can't either -- or she's either independent, or she's independent; she can't be -- or she can't be independent. In that space is moving your view of this agency as simply an NGO in which everything can. She makes regulations, she prescribes standards, if not this, then that and that trafficker at the intersection. When you get to the intersection, only then do you know what offense you've committed, and you've committed a misdemeanor when you turn the car on and start driving. You can't do that in law. Something like that can't be written in law with us. There's something I want to say about the parliamentary group that made the intervention, and as far as Article 2 is concerned. It says: "The agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent of any state body, as well as of all organisations and persons dealing with telecommunications networks, funds or services. "If she's so independent of everything, then what she's doing. You wrote, when someone comes to her they say -- you're out of the question, we're not gonna do anything, we're independent, we're independent, and we have no obligation to anyone. That's what it says in this attitude that you wrote. Maybe you thought something else, maybe you wanted something else, but you wrote it. It's because of what was said at the beginning -- someone was reading, so he didn't read. Read what you wrote. She's either independent or independent. If it's independent, then it's another thing, it's about the law and the regulations, but you have an agency that's not tied to any regulations. She makes her own regulations, the total disposition of an agency that can do anything and everything. You're a monopoliest, you're not a monopoliest, and if you were to go through with the application of monopoly regulations, you have a functional monopoly, you have a regional monopoly and someone can be a monopoly in Belgrade without being a Nis monopoliest because of the service, and someone can be a monopoliest because of the network. Who needs to regulate that? Agency. Based on what? Based on some authority of yours. If she is independent, then how she earns, who she is subject to, who she corresponds to, and why the incomes would be hers, isn't that the revenue of the budget? Who has empowered them to be independent and independent and with regard to income, cutting, taking, etc. I don't know if you've taken care of it. That's a big remark. Mrs. Komic, as far as I can tell, Natasha Micic is not here, and the document says she voted. Please, on the basis of Article 116, paragraph 2 - for the MP using the identification card of the second MP, etc., you see how to apply this provision, so punish yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29143	National MP, your recommendation to others - to read but to know what he read - should first be applied to you. So, the President of the National Assembly's card is registered specifically, the card doesn't count on the time spent in the National Assembly's hall and there was no vote. So, I now give you a warning about the abuse of time necessary for what needs to be spent on the amendment debate, so I ask you to use your time of five minutes next to discuss the amendment, and as deputy president of the parliamentary group to report to you, read the Rules of Procedure and give any measure of violation to the Rules of Procedure that you consider necessary. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29144	Madam Chairman, we're not at school. Don't threaten us and don't warn us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29145	Please don't give false facts about the pay phone. None of what was said was a threat, nor was it addressed by the Rules of Procedure. I reminded the People's MP that once he has full rights, he warns others to apply the same rule to himself. I ask you to speak in your address on the breach of the Rules of Procedure about the violation of a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29146	Madam Chairman, Article 101 - holding order at the session, members 102, 103, and 104, etc., all in chapter 4: "The work at the National Assembly session is taken care of by the president of the National Assembly. Because of the violations of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give a warning, take away words or distance from the session. "I don't know what a warning means in the sense of this Rules of Procedure, except possibly some threat. You have enriched probably the dictionary and provisions of this Rules of Procedure, but you will have to do so with amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure to install into this Rules of Procedure, so you will use that measure. As for the computer copy that we asked for about the number of MPs present, who gave the quorum for the continuation of the session, the session at the time of the quorum was not attended by Dusica Angelkovic, Neda Arnerić, Anita Beretic, Vlasimirović, Aleksandra Joksimović, Bojan Kostreš, Milan Marković, Natasa Micic - and there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure that specifically applies to the president of the National Assembly in the sense that its card must be constantly in the MP's unit or you tell me in which member of the Rules of Procedure writes - then, Srda Popović, Dr Živorad Rakovic, Alen Selimović, Aleksandar Stefanović, Dr Predrag Stojanović, quite enough. To ask you to count the MPs, that's not my goal. We can keep working even if you all came out, because we've made amendments and we want to explain them so they can get into the stenogram. One day that stenogram will be read. Someone will be interested in how this congregation worked at the time the DOS was in power. So don't think we're bothered that you're not here for 84. We're glad you're not 84, but we're only going out to point out the fact that it would be written down. You show truly incredible anxiety or misunderstanding of the matter that Mr. Krasic has this professionally explained, so I believe that some people find it difficult to follow. It really is on a slightly higher level than the levels of many who listen to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29147	Article 102. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia make it clear - if the MP, in spite of the warning of the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda; therefore, I have the right to warn against a question that is not on the agenda. Your understanding of the documents, used in such a way as to read the names of the MPs of the people of your free choice, is your right, and these MPs were established with their card, on the document were present. The fact that you put it behind the pay phone is nothing more than the way you choose to use your parliamentary right. Do you want the Administrative Board to come forward? Yeah. ) The Management Board will declare the violation of the members of the Rules of Procedures by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group. Is there anyone answering for the amendment to the names above Articles 7 and 7? No, I don't. ) We move on to the amendments submitted jointly by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Zarko Obradovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The applicant for the amendment is not present. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29148	We suggest erasing this member for purely principled reasons, since we have a different concept of how it should look, that professional jobs should be done by the ministry, and what would be to suppress the monopoly and possibly assign those permits, it should be done by a special commission, formed by the ministry, pretty far from the ministry, but it should be at least in one function. But that's something else. We suggest that this member be deleted, and also, since most will probably cut it off and decide how to be, we should also point out your shortcomings in Article 8. It's a bill of law. With this article you define the practical legal subjectivity of an agency. You know, if that agency is a legal person, if it's to be registered in some register and started working, then at least minimum respect for the provisions concerning every legal person is necessary. Practically, you have a board of directors here and you have something called the agency's professional service. To register a legal person you need to have other organs, you need to have a responsible person. In practice, you've made one mistake: the board of directors is a collegiate body, and in one of the later members you say the president has the rights and responsibilities of corporate directors etc. But based on this provision, it's hard for you to register with the court, you won't be able to register the agency because you lack everything you need for one legal person to register. You can probably do something with proper interventions, but I'm telling you that in this provision there is this lack and this lack. In particular, the last position is problematic, where you are talking about the possibility of the board of directors hiring domestic and foreign legal or natural persons for certain professional tasks. We in the SRS are most afraid of it and the engagement of these experts, because it is obvious that this is also present in other ministries and specific items of the budget, the conclusion of the contract, special services under contract, etc. Be assured, if your agency is independent and independent and you use the services of independent experts from here and abroad, then nothing will differ from the Federal Ministry of Communications, the previous one, before 5 October 2000, nothing will differ. In these professional and consulting services, be assured that there will be such conditions among the conditions for carrying out the work prescribed by the Agency that only one manufacturer necessarily means providing equipment. Remember, just one manufacturer. What's returned when it comes to Telecom for 300 million, and what's worth billions, it still needs to be unwrapped. Why would Italians sell something worth a billion for 300 million? Find a link between this fact, the independence of the agency and the ability to engage everything and everything and some callers, to recommend only the equipment of some manufacturers to enter directly into the conditions prescribed by the Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29149	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 9 and to Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the entire amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS to Article 9 and the title refers to 99% of the exposé, if it can be called that, the Minister of Mrs Maria Rashete-Vukosavljevic, because today, in the short time of six minutes, as she spoke, spoke only about the agency. Well, you didn't make it all in those six minutes, Mrs. Rusheta, to read and explain to us why this monopoly position of the agency and it's true that you said - the archduke. You've been correcting and recanting, and if you weren't at all today during the debate, in principle, or in particular, reporting for a word, you'd possibly support it with new evidence. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, deputy head of the parliamentary group, as an experienced lawyer, and as someone who excellently widely interprets the entire legal area, she told you that this cannot possibly be an archduke. And that he is, and if he can't be, you must know it well, and these MPs of yours who don't read anything, and they have no idea what life is about, or what it's about, they'd have to know, just like you, Mrs. Rushetta, that there's a concession law, and that's the same law that, at the same time, when this law didn't come to you on the agenda, it didn't go away, because you didn't provide a congregation majority. The old Law on concessions, which is still in force, and the law being prepared, is sufficient reason to accept the SRS amendment to Article 9 because, according to this law and what is being prepared, the government is making a decision on the concessionaire. You couldn't possibly have what needs to be a strict jurisdiction of your ministry to transfer to an agency that's being established and there's only one in a row. There's a lot of things that bother us here. There's a lot of technically poorly done and controversial things in the Agency's jurisdiction. First of all, the agency can't, under the Constitution of our country and according to positive legal regulations, survive, deal with administrative disputes. Point 14 of the Agency's work says: "it resolves disputes, in the cases provided for by this law or by the acts of the Agency, between the users and the telecommunications operator and between telecommunications operators". The administrative dispute in the first, second and third stages cannot, on behalf of the competent courts, be run by some kind of agency. On the other hand, it is true that it is disputed that the Agency is closer to regulating the exercise of activity in the area of telecommunications. We ask our amendment to delete the word "particularly." This is what we are looking for from the space reason that we already see the monopoly position of the agency as such, which could not be established because of the opposite of the Constitution, the Law on concessions and the Law on Ministrys; this is "particularly" tendential and totally unnecessary. As far as point 5 is concerned, there could be a lot of talk about all of the Agency's competences. Point 5) says "the closer he edits the conditions of using radio frequency spectrum and prepares proposals of the Plan for radio frequency range and radio frequency distribution plan". Mrs. Rusheta, last night you had a potential in the central news show on RTS, and today you didn't say that about the assembly speaker, and this is about national television frequencies, although this is directly related to the recently adopted Broadcasting Act. You could have met the MPs and the public who followed it on a spoon. You said that the conditions met only RTS, I followed closely, and that it was possible, because of the ratings in the entire state community and the technical equipment, to do so by the television of former JUL leader, who could not possibly have given us MPs in the last meeting of the Federal Assembly to explain where the money came from, therefore, Željko Mitrovica, who is under your direct control. It's a slow part of the program, and I believe that since he is serving you faithfully now in the hack and campaign you're campaigning on, especially with regard to the president of the SRS, you will allow him to meet the additional conditions, to generate profit and to become enormously rich while the people have nothing to eat and to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29151	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29152	I'd like to ask the promoter to just look at Article 9, what they wrote. When it comes to authority, it's an organ. The organ is competent to do something. You wrote here "age is competent", as if the legal person were competent. You can imagine - the legal face of "Frick" is competent to make ice creams! That's how it turns out, how you wrote it. So when you say the word jurisdiction, then you think of an authority or an organization that exercises public authority. You said here the agency is in charge, and that's wrong, and it doesn't mean anything. Furthermore, we believe that all of this you have stated should be the Ministry of Telecommunications's jurisdiction. In addition, point 18 is attached. You're the one who brought technical regulations here. They're standards. That's what the Ministry should do. It should prescribe standards, as the construction ministry prescribes standards when it comes to construction; there is also a competent ministry that prescribes standards, even if there is an agency there. So everything that's a profession, technical regulations, standards, it's got to be prescribed by the competent state authority, in order for that regulation to have binding power. If it is prescribed by such a regulatory body, set not to answer to anyone, depends on anyone and can do anything, full of the capacity of the government in terms of telecommunications, we are in a situation that we do not have a legal order when it comes to this very significant area. You probably agree that at point 1) the word "absolutely" means absolutely nothing. Absolutely nothing means that something special stands out with that word, when it's a regular job that, by the logic of things, the Ministry has to do. Of course, we haven't made any more amendments. There are at least seven more points that, if our amendment is to be followed, they should be in the power of the Ministry; these jobs are to be given to the Agency. Since our amendments are more referring and something that warns the promoter of how many shortcomings there are, how unspeakable it is, I hope you've realized that we haven't developed this fundamental idea to which, practically, we suggest that this be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry. Once again, I warn you that in this article, as well as in several of the following members, you have intertwined provisions that give the agency both first-degree, second-degree and absolute jurisdiction to solve certain matters. It's not good, and something like that can't be given to any organ. Such a right is not even owned by the Republican congregation. Be assured that even the Republic Assembly does not have that capacity for power. It's dangerous, remember, it's dangerous, because through such an agency with such, as you say, competencies, it's all about jobs and powers, everything and everything that's happening on our market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29153	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The Transport and Links Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does the word bearer of the amendment want? The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: Don't knock. )
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29154	Madam Chairman, I think it's high time you gave Miss Milky a warning now or you wanted an incident situation in the assembly. He can't insult and throw while I'm still leaving the bench and I didn't get to the pay phone. It really doesn't make sense anymore. There are 52 people in the room. We tolerate 85 cards. You allow one rude person to throw all the time. It really doesn't make sense anymore. Either court this congregation or we interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29155	People's MP, please pay full attention to the subject of your amendment. You have five minutes and no one is allowed to interfere with what you intend to take to the National Assembly session. This applies to MPs from all MPs' groups. Please allow the MP to begin the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29156	By passing such a law and giving such authority to one agency, you are about to place a picture of Baby Popovic and give all the powers in his hands, that he is nice to bring up editors, journalists and that he has all the frequencies and takes all the power in that field in this country. To give one group of people, whether three or five of them are in the board of directors, this kind of authority, to have one resource so important to one state, is unacceptable to the SRS. Especially since some powers are given to this agency above the authority that has any ministry. The agency will, however, close a tunnel without exits created in Serbia's media space, on the other hand, from which the entrance was opened, because there is no way out of this tunnel that you have brought Serbia to. Totally in the field of telecommunications monopoly, he's going to destroy what little competition he's ever seen, he hasn't had the opportunity to affirm, but she's stared at being able to exist tomorrow. You're not worth pointing to the mistakes you're making, you think you'll stay in power for a long time. You will remain in power for a few months, it's a ceiling for you, and after that, when others apply these laws to you... Free Milosevic was a baby in a cradle about democracy compared to the laws that you make.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29157	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29158	With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the promoter that it is not good for the agency to be given these powers. For what? Practically with these powers, the agencies become the biggest monopoliest. Someone who has so much power, power to absolute monopoly, is unable to be objective, impartial and apply anti-monopoly regulations. If you already intend to let this member pass, be assured that everything you have stated here can be interpreted as a measure and an activity that prevents monopolies from being abused. In this area, by functional definition, we have two monopolys: the Telekom monopoly, naturally created from the fact that the legal and political system inherited and the development of telecommunications; and a monopoly ten years ago in mobile telephony, held by Mobtel, which is also in some way a monopolies. And anyone who has an exclusive license is a monopolies; as soon as they have their own network, the ability to decide who has access to its network, who can offer services and define the conditions. With this amendment, we just want to draw attention to you that in the area of telecommunications we need an organ to prevent all kinds of abuse of monopoly. And he's present and must probably be present. Tell me who in your version needs to develop a new fixed telephony. No idea. Is that electricity, is it a railway or a third operator? How much does this country want to develop fixed telephony? Without a fixed network, no cell phones, no telecommunications development. So pay attention, the monopoly must be present. The question is how long it takes to stop the abuse of that monopoly. There used to be an anti-monopoly law that wasn't good. There was an anti-monopoly commission, which was not good because there were a dozen sub-legal regulations that hindered her work. Probably this government in its program has the formation of some anti-monopoly body to suppress the monopoly. Well, we have monopolies in all areas. Monopol in telecommunications, where profits are very significant, where there is great interest, where new technologies are constantly developing, of course deserves special attention. As you've set up powers in the fight against the abuse of monopolies, you've given one authority, which is above all, superiors, it just means that you've established a monopoly of an organ, an organization or a legal person; it will practically encourage new monopolies, because it can prescribe, control, decide. He can't punish, though, and it's a good thing he can't. But there's no greater punishment if he denied the user any favors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29159	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Before we continue the debate in detail, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to inform you that I am on a reasoned and unanimous proposal from the Government, and in accordance with the promise we made to our citizens that the state of emergency will only last as long as necessary, I have decided to abolish the state of emergency. So Serbia is no longer in a state of emergency. We continue the discussion in detail. [[Applause]] On the title and subtitle above Articles 11 and 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. There's a word from the applicant for the amendment, MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29160	I'm sorry, I'm a little excited, this information that I just got really shook me up. I just can't hide my excitement. Well, I have to tremble because Serbia was in a state of emergency. And what state would you be in when Serbia was in emergency? In fact, we're trying to amend as much as we improve this law. We suggest that a commission be appointed in Article 11 instead of a board of directors. That is because I am the name - the board of directors, as well as the contents of this member, say that it is given to manage someone whose members will be elected by the Government, and thus deletes the ministry's discretionary right to decide who will be a member of that board. Why are we doing this? Not because we trust the Ministry. We radicals lost confidence in the ministry at the beginning when the minister here claimed that the gentleman, who paves Serbia, is a socially useful person. This is a very tangible topic, and this is a body that literally decides on the great financial potential of the Republic government, or Serbia. The promoter says members of the board of directors are proposing... The government says that, apart from the ministry, professional associations and various organisations can propose members of the board of directors. It's something that's on its own in college. If operators propose a member of the Management Board, they shall have an impact through that member of the Management Board. It's best, Madam Minister, that you read that law, not nod my head. Although it may be a sign of approval, it's not about the law that you approve of. It is illogical that the association, with which this board of directors should have some partnership, has a representative on board. Secondly, we understand the need to transfer all these powers to the agency or the board of directors. It is really unfortunate for the government, which has 18 political parties in its composition, to be the one to decide. Who's going to sort you all out? There's no one who can set you up. Those from the Democratic Party barely tolerate you, your young ones and those in the Assembly, not if they decided what the board should do, so the government proposed that it be on the board of directors of five members. Gentlemen, don't mind me saying names that satisfy these professional qualifications. The chairman of the board of directors could be Draško Petrovic obviously does not meet the requirements, and since the chairman of the board also replaces both the director and Professor Hiber, probably one person coming from Nis. This is what you will see, because according to your professional qualifications, you will deploy these others into these three telecommunications companies, which are these fixed, mobile and Internet companies. It'll be three companies, so they'll be satisfied with these little ones. (President: 5 minutes. ) That is why we, Serbian radicals, are essentially not only proposing to change the name, not to be a board of directors, but also to choose a board of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29161	The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29162	We're proposing to change this member. Of course, you've got the text of our amendment. Any government would look forward to having this in the law. Unfortunately, this Dosmanian government does not want this to be written in law, and our proposal is about to appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Serbia as presidents and members. Why? Because the government of the Republic of Serbia enforces the laws. Laws are not governed by the National Assembly. The choice of officials, members of an organ, etc. is the executive part of the activity and it belongs by definition to the Government. As the government enforces a law, it chooses people for an organ prescribed by that law. The National Assembly is doing this in very particular cases that the Constitution provides for, judges, prosecutors, and is likely to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia, etc. When it comes to sub-organs, the executive authorities, then the government enforces the law, it enforces the law. The government is at the helm of this executive government. The law enforcement is to educate this commission that we propose. At the very least, if you keep the agency, both the president and members of the board of directors of the agency should be elected by the government. Nothing is dangerous. For what? The government bears full responsibility for the conduct of internal and external policies. The agency can't be held accountable. The government is responsible for the work of all management bodies, the government is responsible for economic policy, whether there was inflation, whether there was no inflation, whether this body was doing well, whether the ministry was doing well, whether the apartments were built, whether roads were being built, etc. This way, this government says, we'd like something, but let it be there, to the agency, so we'll switch agency members when the time comes, of course, when they don't finish something by government order or coalition majority. And then again like with these judges, when we say, don't choose them, they answer, no, they're beautiful. It's been half a year and they haven't finished what they expected and they say, we're changing them; we find the PP object, and that's not a glued tax mark. We don't want it that way, we know this game, and then we say, the government forms a commission and the government has full responsibility for everything that's done in this country, which is within the scope of the executive government. The other thing is, we like this solution as an opposition party. Why? If we were in power, we would accept this, if we were to bear full responsibility, because we wouldn't care how the agency works. We run one policy, and the agency runs a third policy. I don't think that's right for this government, too, that there's no influence on how to run that policy. This is good for one thing that must finally come to life with us. You know, in every election, probably the change of government, the great village of the people performs. It's perfectly normal. The administration's moving, the officials are moving, politicians are moving, leaving, some new ones are coming. It's a natural process. No matter what law is passed, let these provisions pass on to you as to how the National Assembly will elect members and chairman of the board of directors. Every new government will change them in five days, make sure of that. It doesn't matter, let Murta come, some must change them. If he wants discontinuity with this authority, he has to change. That recommendation you received from the international organisation for Internet providers and services, etc., where you say set different ways for the mandate, so that new authorities do not change, they have deceived you. They're changing as soon as the government changes. (President: 5 minutes. ) Why in Serbia that would not change on the basis of the democratic principles we have fought for and you have installed them for the past two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29163	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the Parliament of the APV. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Christodulo. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29164	Thank you. In Article 11. The proposal for a telecommunications law, a republican telecommunications agency, has been defined as an independent and independent organisation that has a function, essentially a regulatory body in the area of telecommunications. It is entrusted with certain public powers, or almost all of the jobs involved in regulating relations in the area of telecommunications. I believe that the importance that this agency has is so exceptional that the composition and way of selecting the Agency's authority is as defined in Article 11. The bill is not sufficient to ensure that this organisation is truly independent of state authorities and their potential impact on the effective regulation of relations in the area of telecommunications. So, unlike the previous promoters, I suggest that this independence, which is of course necessary and needs to be strengthened even more. By amending Article 11. I propose a new composition and way of selecting the board of directors of the agency, above all increasing the number of members from five to seven, as well as a change in the mandated candidates who would propose two candidates for the board of directors, of whom the National Assembly elects one. This type of selection of the regulatory body was also applied in the selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, and it was also a model based on which I proposed this method of selecting the regulatory body and in the area of telecommunications. I believe that this concept that the government has otherwise proposed, and this concept as it is I propose to change, that it is good in essence. That's what I want to turn up. The specific composition of the Agency's Management Board, the selection of its members and the process of proposing them, as I propose, aim to ensure the necessary independence of the Agency itself, i.e. to ensure the professional, impartial and objective decision-making of the Management Board. The circle of entities representing the authorised applicants of the proposal aims to ensure a sufficient balance between the state and the telecommunications profession, as I say, which should thus contribute to the development of telecommunications areas. The government of Serbia when it was written to reject this proposal, i.e. This amendment shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. The bill, she said, did not need to establish that balance between the telecommunications profession and the state, because it is contrary to European principles, i.e. how it is regulated in European countries. But when the government proposes its Article 11, it is in the fourth position that balance; therefore, "The government sets out a proposal for a choice by its own initiative, etc., which are authorised to submit the ministry, so now, the Telecommunication Operators Association, the registered Association of Businesses and Scientific Institutions in the area of telecommunications or according to the call for competition. "When I proposed authorised proposings, instead of the government of Serbia, except for the National Assembly and the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Government of Serbia and the Executive Council of the AP, which are also authorised in the proposal of the broadcasting agency, I suggest that, apart from those of the telecommunications profession that the government has also cited in its proposal, two candidates for one member of the board of directors also propose consumer associations and NGOs in the area of telecommunications through a common agreement. So I think that balance already exists. I suggest adding two more members, to be two from Vojvodina, and one would be proposed on a proposal from users essentially, and they are nowhere in this very important body that will regulate the area of telecommunications in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29165	Is there anyone else reporting from the authorized participants in the debate? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic, Adam Uroševic and Milos Todorovic. The Transport and Links Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs Gordana Komic and Bojan Kostreš submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. The Government and the Transport and Connection Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment becomes an integral part of the draft law. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The Transport and Links Committee and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. We will conclude today's work by discussing this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29166	Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to delete Article 12 and the title above it "Mandate of members of the board of directors". This amendment is a logical continuation of previous amendments and SRS concepts in the area of telecommunications. In fact, we said in the principle debate that we were against the agency by this law and I already said that this law is actually just an agency law. The third point in the first part refers to the board of directors, so it belongs to that agency and is therefore unacceptable to us. I would just like to refer briefly to Article 11, although it has already been commented, which states that members of the board of directors are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is likely that this will be adopted and will pass, but I would ask you to remove all the masks here and to say simply that a member of the board of directors is elected by the Government, not to write here a variety of words of type the proposal "is determined on the basis of expertise and experience" etc., which are important for doing business; I simply wonder who in the Serbian Government will determine which of these proposed candidates is professional, experienced, competent, etc. Whether it's the Serbian Prime Minister or anyone else, I don't know, it's not exactly said here, but I don't see who can assess the expertise and competence of one of the potential candidates who belongs to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 12 defines the term of office of president and board members as well as the choice and termination of the mandate, and this is all about the board of directors, so there is no point in even talking about this anymore, because we do not accept this agency or its board of directors. Once again, this is all a front for dealing with those who don't think the same thing and the possibility of giving frequencies to those who, through various Soros, NGOs, foreign embassies in that dictatorial time, have come to very valuable resources, very large, very well equipped radios and television stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-04-22-0.u29167	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. We're done with today's work, and I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00. Bon appétit.
