ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31459	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Jelena Milenković - Orlic, Nenad Lemajic, Ratimir Svirčević, Milos Radivojčević and Branimir Trajkovic; Milos Lučić will be late. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State AUTHORITIES IN THE SUGANISATION OF ORGANISED CRIME (the continuation of a joint principled search with the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda) We continue to work on the agenda of the joint principled review of the Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, the Proposal for Law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehaving in Sports Practices, according to the application for the word. The word is made by the People's MP Milovan Radovanovic, and the following is the People's MP Golub Rajic, declared for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31460	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the provisions of the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, which you have proposed to change in the Assembly, are contrary to the Constitutional Charter, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the International Convention and the Charter of the Protection of Human and Minority Rights and Civil and Political Freedoms. In a few months, more precisely in a time of two months, you have, in several cases, violated human rights against illegal and unfounded arrests that were declared by these acts that I have stated. The latest human rights violation case is the arrest on the basis of what Minister Vladan Batic said, a statement by Zoran Vukojevic Vuk, one of the prisoners or detainees, when a certain Mr. Slavomir Bandjur was arrested for making statements at a press conference. You allegedly arrested them for one reason, and later, as you filed criminal charges and indictments and charges, you led them to do so for quite another reason. There is no preventative arrest institute in our legal system, and that's why someone will probably have to answer. The human rights that are violated by existing provisions that change are the right to freedom, the right to counsel and the right to judicial protection. In these two months since the law entered into force on 11 April 2003, because of a violation of human rights, a certain number of persons should be held accountable for it, but also when it comes to an indefinite number of persons due to threatened measures, you have violated the basic provisions on human rights. What does that mean? It means that the legislator of this law, the government, and the MPs who voted for this law, should well consider whether they will come under the influence of the law on liability for human rights violations or the Law on lustration for all this you have done. You left this draft law in Article 15đ that the first position remains important, that for particularly justified reasons, according to the public prosecutor's proposal, and now it is Jovan Prijic, the Supreme Court can determine the detention period of three months. Is that the man there's a reasonable suspicion, because of certain people's statements, that he's extorting his testimony? As for this law on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events, it turns out, as you have been doing lately, that the most developed economic branch is the extradition of Serbian citizens, or Serbs to the UN tribunal. Individual officials themselves say, I would like to quote an example of Goran Svilanovic, that you expect a certain amount of donations in each handover, and in the last case when you extradited Veselin Sljivancanin, he said Serbia-Montenegro will receive 110,000,000 dollars from the United States. In addition to this, you constantly use your repressive measures, including the bill, and this is one of the cases, you violate human rights and freedoms, you increase taxes, you bring in measures, criminal provisions, detentions, and so forth. And this bill of law on preventing violence and misbehavior at sports events shows that you are increasing the importance of the MUP and giving it much more rights than it should have under the Constitution. What is it, according to this bill, the cause of hatred, for which a 60-day prison sentence is foreseen? What is misbehaving or unauthorized entry into part of the sports facility, shouting slogans of inappropriate content? What's a ringleader who's supposed to get a prison sentence from one to five years? You seem to be using the model of English law and English law, but it does not give you the right to engage foreign unformed persons in the interior ministry, possibly at sports facilities. Is Article 6 of the Bill clear enough when you say that the supervision of the application of this law has a competent Ministry of Interior (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry)? The ministry may, under the law, have certain powers and responsibilities, but cannot have the authority to care for the application of a certain law. You really need this, Mr. Minister, if there's an amendment, it doesn't matter, you're a minister of justice, whether or not you're a representative of the government on this matter. The beating of sixty students on the night between May 9th and 10th, in connection with beating up a number of citizens, including beating up citizens you said in the Home Ministry report that they were drunk hooligans, and by October 5th you called them Serbia's youth; further, the very way of arresting Sljivancanin and other examples, and especially in times of emergency, show that you are creating a state police state. Indeed, there are more and more examples each day based on which you show that you work in that sense and in that regard. Because of the weather, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31461	The Minister of Justice, Mr Vladan Batic, called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31462	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, just a few words on the amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the repression of organised crime, brought on 11 April 2003, which envisioned the review of the provisions on detention, which included special powers given to the Office for the Prevention of Organized Crime, the Minister of Interior and the Special Prosecutor, which in some ways resulted in the introduction and conditions of emergency, which existed in Serbia, with the aim of contributing to a more effective fight against what spread in Serbia and resulting in the tragic murder of the first democratic prime minister of Serbia after 60 years, Mr Zoran Djindjic. So no one in the Government of the Republic of Serbia intends to violate civil, or human rights, nor intends to defy Europe, to be against European standards, but simply after that conspiracy, an attempt to strike state, coup, assassination and emergency, after the discovery of a single dose of crime in Serbia, an enormous expansion or an escalation of crime, therefore, the circumstances of a necessary defence or the ultimate necessity in which Serbia was in, have motivated and led to the adoption of such a law. Because it was completely unrealistic to expect that in the conditions that existed in the Criminal Procedure Act and within 48 hours, some relevant circumstances could be identified, put on the path and cut off the end of organised crime in Serbia. By the way, I want to inform you that all officials of the most important European institutions have been informed of such a bill. I had the head of the European Commission Mission with us, Mr. Jeffrey Barrett, the head of the OSCE mission, Mr. Mauricio Masari and the Head of Mission of the Council of Europe, Mrs. Taylor. So, we didn't have a single word of objection or objections. We had to choose between two evils, between the temporary suspension of some powers and the rights blamed in criminal proceedings or to allow Serbia to turn into anarchy or chaos. We've decided on the first variant. Europe has accepted it silently. The situation has been consolidated in the meantime, entered into some normal frames. And even the links between organised crime have been cut most of the time. So, since the situation has been consolidated and we are going back to European standards and those provisions that exist with regard to detention in the Criminal Procedure Act. So these were arguments, reasons and motives to change these provisions again. As for the amendment and addition of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, simply a new high-tech time carries some new aspects of social danger and some new type of criminal acts of unauthorized use of copyright in the field of publishing, film industry, music production, computer software; and fears that the court proceedings may take a long time, that the epilogue of this procedure may be prevented from taking away the cases used for the execution of criminal offences or committed crimes, requires that we enter into the law the provision of mandatory confiscation of those cases used for the execution of criminal acts of this kind or the conduct of the crime itself. Therefore, we need to create a legal obligation, a legal presummation of the confiscation of these cases, not to leave the arbitration of courts, or judicial authorities. I repeat, it may not appear to be a serious degree of social danger, but I assure you that this undermines some of the fundamental values of modern society, which Serbia is pursuing in Europe in the 21st century. Finally, since I was given the authority to replace my colleague, Dusan Mihajlovic, whose ministry is a nominal legislator of the law regarding the prevention of violence and misbehavior at sports events, I think we are all witnesses of an exhibition of such inappropriate behavior that exceeds all normal frameworks and all sports motives, all the usual reactions. It's not, of course, just a characteristic of Serbia. It's a feature of all states in the former Yugoslavia. We have seen what happened at the water polo match in Kranj, Slovenia, what is happening in some other places in the former Yugoslav spaces, so it has inevitably conditioned that a special law be passed that will define the obligations and responsibilities of the organizers of sports events, since these obligations have only been regulated by the Law on Citizens' Gathering. This violent, hooligan, misbehaving, especially in football and basketball, and we have seen in some other games, which are obviously only a cause and in some way a motive for a wider expansion of violent behavior and violence, conditioned the adoption of this law, which should be a prerequisite for preventing such occurrences and such behaviour. In addition, I would like to remind you that our country has ratified the European Convention on Violence and Misbehavior at sports events. In this way, it becomes an integral part of the legal order of the Serbian state and in some ways is the link between the European Convention and our legal order, with the aim of standardising this law exactly as it appears and effectively sanctioning it, in view of both the preventive and the repressive fact of criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31463	I thank Mr. Secretary. The word is by MP Golub Rajic, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. The following is MP Vukosav Tomasevic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia, declared as saying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31464	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on the agenda of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, called upon by the Government, are three draft laws on which the debate is merged and limited, so we have very little time to put our views on them. The question is how many draft laws amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior in Sports Events have similarities and whether a united debate can be conducted, but under this transparent and democratic government everything is possible. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, adopted this assembly on 11 April 2003, at the time of emergency, when some new paragraphs have been passed that, without a court decision, suspects of belonging to a criminal group can be retained for 30 days, and for particularly justified reasons, such deprivement of the freedom of the police minister may be extended for another 30 days. Socialists, as well as other opposition MPs, have disputed this as unconstitutional, as a violation of human rights, contrary to all international conventions, because such police detention can be misused because of excessive authority by state authorities, which is likely to be done, and a lot of people are detained without any evidence, primarily for political reasons. It is true that when this law was passed, the National Assembly was scheduled to review these provisions within 90 days, and this is now cited as a reason for the adoption of this bill, although 90 days have not expired, and no mention of the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutional nature of these provisions is made. The question arises as to why the Constitutional Court has reached a solution, so the Assembly amends these unconstitutional provisions, and has not made a decision that would put this law out of effect. If that were the case, the state should compensate all innocents for the damage, not like this. Is the Constitutional Court acting as an organ of government? These proposed amendments to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime achieve its alignment with the provisions on the detention of the Codes of Criminal Procedure and of International Conventions, it is said in an explanation, although Article 2 has been denied and should be deleted, because detention of detention for two years is not in accordance with international conventions on human rights. It is also unacceptable to remain a provision allowing for justifiable reasons, on a reasoned proposal by a special prosecutor or the president of a special district court, the Supreme Court of Serbia can extend detention by another three months, as the particularly justified reasons can be widely interpreted by the prosecutor or the president of a special department of the district court, and the Socialists cannot accept this. The proposal for a law supplementing the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for a mandatory declaration of the measure of confiscation of cases used for the execution of a criminal offence or committed by committing a criminal offence, was also considered and adopted in April of this year, and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group cannot accept this and will not vote for this. The statement of the measure of confiscation of cases used for the execution of a criminal offence or criminal offence has already been regulated by the provisions of the basic criminal law, and that is to say to the members 69, 84 and 87, who have been given the possibility to the judicial authorities that, depending on the severity of the criminal offence and the threat of the state's interest, they impose the measures of confiscation of cases used for the execution of a criminal offence or of the case committed by the execution of a criminal offence. The introduction of mandatory confiscation provisions for each criminal offence, as proposed by these amendments to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, is not good because it equits the degree of danger of various crimes. Taking into account all the developments of recent years in the Republic of Serbia, the increasingly present is the display of violent and improper behaviour by viewers at sports events, as well as these days during celebrations, and the need for this matter to be arranged better. The question is whether it should be like this, by special law, or maybe it was better to be within the law of sport, or some other law. This bill on the prevention of violence and misbehaving in sports events, which has long been pending in the procedure, should certainly be amended in order for the law to deliver results, both violence and misbehavior to be warned. In Article 2, item 3 of the interval from one hour before the start should be increased, as in major sports competitions and events visitors come several hours earlier. It is also necessary to increase the interval after completion, where the organiser would be objectively responsible for some events. Also, in Article 3, the organiser must establish co-operation with the MUP, which is in line with the European Convention on Violence and Misbehaving of Watchers in Sports Events, which our country ratified in 1990, where state authorities are obliged to provide public order authorities in the stadium and in the near environment. It is also necessary to re-form in Article 8(3) in order to more effectively prevent unwanted consequences. Members 13 and 14 should be deleted who regulate the provisions on the way, time and place of ticket sales, because there is not enough limit for one person to buy five tickets, and ticket sales at the sports facility's cash register reduces the risk and there is no need to sell, with the consent of the Ministry, on the day of the match being held outside the facility. Also, in Article 15, points 2), 9), 11) and 12 should be deleted, because in closed sports halls there are no fences between viewers and terrains, as well as in open stadiums, and the trend in the world is to remove fences. It is a rigorous provision at point 9) because it is not precise enough. Point 11 provides for a public declaration system, and many stadiums in the interior do not have such equipment, as well as equipment for continuous and continuous power supply. Article 18 should be deleted, since almost every stadium or hall in its composition has a catering facility, which clubs rent for financial reasons, and security can easily determine who causes a mess because of the alcoholic condition. Finally, Article 21 provides fines, as well as safeguard measures, which do not define the duration. I think that it should be defined by accepting the amendment and thus removing the proposal's failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31465	The word is by MP Vukosav Tomasevic, a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Next reported is MP Petar Jojic, a Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31466	Dear colleagues, after a truly unreasonable decision to bring together the debate on three laws, it is difficult to speak individually of any of these laws in these conditions. I'm going to try to say something about the bill on preventing violence and misbehave on sports grounds, although it's particularly difficult to talk about this law at this point. Until now, we have not received an opinion from the committee responsible on this law, we have not received an opinion from either the Government or any committee on the amendments submitted. So, at this point objectively there are no conditions to discuss this law, and you, Mrs. Micic, as president of the Assembly, should suspend the debate on this law until the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure are obtained to continue the debate. It is difficult to talk about the law when you do not know what the position of the legislator of the law on your amendments is, and that can essentially and crucially define your position under this law. (President: You will receive a report by the time the amendments are discussed. ) The debate is at this point. (President: Until debate in particular, this is a common principle search. I don’t expect you to act on my proposal. I'm obliged to draw attention to one more thing, another violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part when it comes to this law. The law entered the procedure on March 22nd last year and since then it has certainly passed not once but three times in 90 working days, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure for any act to be put into practice. So this law could not be found in front of MPs, you violated the Rules of Procedure, and you could simply ask the Proposer to formally resubmit this law and nothing would be disputed. However, let's get past that, to get over that fact, we didn't even have a preliminary presentation of the legislator on this subject. What Mr. Justice Minister just said, who is not here, is really more than modest to take a stand on this law. So these are all the conditions that make the debate difficult, but we are aware of the need for this law to be passed. I hope that we will agree on the views of this law and that this law will be passed in this assembly and will be subject to consensus by all parliamentary groups, because we are aware that the law is necessary. The Democratic Party of Serbia has carried out a number of consultations with experts on the area, with legal experts and with fans, therefore, with those directly affected by the law. The result of these conversations and our consultation is that this is an acceptable way to regulate this area. The law as a model, as a concept, is possible in another way to adopt, but this is one acceptable way. Therefore, the law can be supported and it is evident that it was modelled by some Western European laws in this area, primarily by the example of England and Italy. And if the law is applied in practice as applied in these countries, it can be a good basis for preventing these deviating phenomena on sports grounds. Of course, we cannot cultivate illusions, and we should never forget that we must all work as a society, and all the institutions of this society, to remove those social causes that lead to such deviant behavioural fans, so we must never forget that we must all work as a society, and all the institutions of this society, and also on sports grounds. I think it should be stressed that this is not a law against hooligans, as it is treated in the public domain these days, but a law that should protect most of those normal citizens of this country, so people who go with the best intentions on sports grounds. This is a law that should allow everyone who wants to attend these sports events to take their children there without thinking and not risk coming back from the sports fields of a broken head, broken hands, etc., and that's all because of a small group of hooligans who act out of social norms there. I'll give a few suggestions in terms of, first of all, the application of this law, and then point to a few views that the DSS needs to change in law. So, it's a good thing this law transfers powers and responsibilities to sports clubs and sports organisations, to the organizers of sports competitions. That's the first good thing. The second thing in law enforcement, that should be paid attention: this shouldn't be the law for "Star" and "Partizan". This is a law for big clubs and some derby games, big-risk games. So this law should be applied consistently and equally to all sports events in the country, from those high school rank games, from the lowest league games, from the country leagues to the big derbys and the big games. Only in that case will we have his exact and complete fact. Another good thing, something that is news in our legislation, is that the law treats its provisions and direct actors in sporting events, and treats them criminally. It's a good thing the athletes themselves who are on the ground, coaches, administrations, other officials and all those who are on the ground, and not in the theater, are covered by this law. So far, we have not had such a practice, and future professional associations of sports organisations will sanction violations in the playgrounds themselves, but this law opens up the possibility that athletes, therefore those who misbehave and who cause such phenomena, can respond in violation and criminal terms. Of course, what wouldn't be good is if the police realized that by this law, to put it that way, they got another pendrek. So this law must not be taken as a repressive measure in the hands of the police. Police must also comply with this law and with other applicable laws in this country, it must not be the one that irritates fans. Unfortunately, so far, we have been witnessing that police at certain sports events, too, by their unnecessarily over-authorizing behavior, are causing fans to behave badly. Finally, yesterday, one of the predecessors in the discussion spoke, the problem is that the law applies only in Serbia; Montenegro currently does not have a similar law. The highest-ranking competitions are common at the level of the state community and this will create a major problem, there will be discrimination against clubs and fans in Serbia, but we think it is better than never, with the need to work with Montenegrins that they too, or similar legislation, pass until the situation is brought together and levelled. The DSS's objections to this law, which we have tried to pass through six amendments to the law, concern, above all, police powers and redistributive services in stadiums. So we didn't want to make amendments that would be contrary to the spirit and concept of this law. They concern, above all, the precision of the authority of the directorial service, in Article 8, and the police, in Article 17(3) of this Law. We feel it is not good how the legislator here suggested that a broad discretionary authority be given to both the director's office and a police officer to prohibit minors from entering a sports facility to anyone at that time if they seem unsatisfactory to him. We hope that these amendments will be accepted and that our amendment to Article 23. We believe that this formulation, as given in the law, would in some way be the return of a verbal delinquent, and collective; for this reason we suggest that such a formalised attitude of the law be erased, and that the provisions of the Criminal Law which normally regulate this matter be applied analoguely, therefore, insult by religious, national, etc. Base. So this should be applied in this variant. The Democratic Party of Serbia will in any case support this law, and we hope that by accepting our amendments, conditions will be created to support this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31467	The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, the SRS parliamentary group, and the next reported by MP Branko Ruzic, the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the SRS have indicated that passing such laws can only harm, not benefit. Why? In the last two years, we have had a number of laws, and this has led to inflation of regulations that were not necessary at all, because what is prescribed is already prescribed. In view of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, you have seen that in practice he did not encounter application, and in particular the provisions proposed to amend and supplement. What will change and supplement here, when in the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Articles 144 and 146) provided for, normised in which cases the detention of the investigation is determined, and in which cases the detention shall be determined after the indictment has been brought up. In the investigation, the investigative judge determines detention, a lot of MP Zoran Krasic spoke of yesterday, and here you have that the investigative judge determines the detention period of 30 days, that the greater criminal, extrajudicial, can determine two months, and that the Supreme Court can determine another three months of detention. It's in the process of investigation. However, in the proceedings following the indictment, the Code of Criminal Procedure is quite sufficient, precise and comprehensively normed as long as it may take; secondly, to what time period and within what time period it is more criminally obliged to deliver a verdict, and then within what time period it is required to make a verdict and to decide upon an emergency legal remedy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as provided for and prescribed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, I believe it was necessary and necessary, in full order for the provisions of this law to be put out of force. I think it was necessary to put aside the whole law, because everything this law provides for is in our criminal law. Compared to the amendments and additions to the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia -- and even now, in criminal law, we have what the criminal proceedings are like with criminal cases, with cases which have been obtained by the execution of a criminal offence and with cases, as they say here by the means with which the crime was committed. In all cases, there is a security measure and these items are being taken away. They can sell and the money can be channelled into the budget, as has been the case before, and those cases that are dangerous, such as drugs, such as firearms, explosives, in these cases are taken away and destroyed. There's nothing new here that anyone has invented. We only have inflation. That's making and making laws by order, just like we'd like to order a suit at the Schneider's, but we've got to pay good money to the Schneider. Therefore, there is no need to adopt certain regulations that are already prescribed. Here's what we've invented: we've now invented regulations that in 15 days have deprived the freedoms of 12,000 people, brought into the premises of internal affairs organs and other state bodies. So the police and state authorities have in the Code of Criminal Procedure certain rights and they are regulated by powers, and it is perfectly normal that these authorities should work, and they are doing their job in peace. They should not be pressured on political or party grounds. And so far, these people have worked honestly and honestly, and should be allowed to perform their duties with honor and integrity, without pressure and without threats, as they have done so far. It also applies to the court and to the prosecution. So, without press, without pressure, without the political influence of any political party in our country; we should not be allowed in justice or in other state bodies, which are taking appropriate measures that are affecting human rights, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as criminal law, i.e. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which elaborated all the powers of all the authorities. It cannot be allowed in one case to deprive a man of liberty, and to suggest that 72 people be heard, and even to suggest witnesses who have died in that case. Imagine when that man will be arrested. It may be that unlimited detention is held, and remains in force, because the proposal will follow and will be said, "Not all the proposed witnesses have been heard." This is totally unacceptable and the Serbian Radical Party believes that this bill should also, and the provisions proposed and adopted should be deleted, since we have criminal law in detail and in line with the European Community and the Human Rights Pact, and other international legal acts. In addition, the harshest in Europe, you may think that until now there has been a prison sentence for three months, and now it's been pronounced for 15 years. Or, for one thing, 40 years in prison has been fined, and for one act of rape in an attempt for 27 years. Please, in practice, unfortunately we do now, we need to manage to guard ourselves against such extremes. We went to one extreme with mild sentences and parole, but now we should not allow us to go to extremes to apply certain penalties that are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31469	The word has been made by MP Branko Ruzic, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, and then by MP Dragan Shormaz, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31470	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, what is very indicative, is that these three draft laws have been put practically into the status of a united debate, although they do not have any correlation, but this is a proposal from whoever suggested it or the wish of the Proposer to complete, as soon as possible, in a limited time, a debate on these laws. As regards the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the prevention of organised crime, we know that this law was passed on 11 April, that practically those laws legalised the procedures that were carried out after decision V.D. The president of the Republic of Serbia on the introduction of an emergency situation. At that time, as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, we pointed out that such provisions, on extending detention, simply lead to violations of human rights and are not characterized by international conventions. This bill leads to the reenactment of these conventions, but we expected the Secretary-General to point to the results of the implementation of these disputed provisions, since we know that we were publicly bombed by information about the arrest of more than 10,000 members of some mob clans. Also, all parents in Serbia are probably interested in why the drug dealing network in Serbia is put on its feet if the fight against organised crime is successfully over. One reason for such a bill to be found today is the Constitutional Court's decision, and that, of course, could have been said by the resolution minister in his address, at least today, since yesterday he did not want to deign MPs with his exposure. Of course, in practice, regardless of whether this is in accordance with international conventions, human rights continue to be violated. What we wanted to hear, as socialists, is the reason why, without any basis, SPS Vice-President Milorad Vucelic was in custody, why members of the SPS Executive Board are still in custody today, however, Alexander Vulin and Vesna Gojkovic, the minister probably does not want to talk about it. As far as the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, simply, the Criminal Law already provides for the possibility for judicial authorities to make decisions whose content is identical to the proposed amendments and additions, so that this law is the invention of hot water and nothing new will be made, which is not regulated by the existing Criminal Law. As for the third draft law to be discussed in the joint debate, the SPS believes that this issue must indeed be resolved by law, but it is strange that this law that entered into the procedure on March 22nd last year did not come to the Assembly's agenda; if it had come, it would have been likely that many more incidents would have been pre-warned. Of course, not by law like this, since this law has certain provisions that are not enforceable, and I'm going to list just some. Article 2 mentions that the interval of one hour before the start and the interval of one hour after the end of the sports event is sufficient to organise the sport event's security effectively; simply, it is not possible to do so in practice, if we know that for many, for example. football matches of the Cup of Champions held in Belgrade and stadium gates were opened three hours before the start of the match; then we have a time vacuum in which we do not know who is responsible for any events at these sports events. Also, the minister who has been delegated here and on behalf of the interior minister presents this law, and has very modestly explained it, called for the European Convention on Violence and Misbehavior of Watchers at sports events, which our country ratified since 1990. However, this law does not clearly specify that the organizer of sports events should, in co-operation with the Resolute Ministry of Interior, take all measures that are being warned and prevent the outbreak of violence and misbehave by viewers. It's probably an intensities in the adoption of this bill that only the budget is being filled by the organizers of the sports event at the expense of the MUP, which is not the solution to the problem. One of the provisions that is inconclusive is that cheerleading groups organize their directorial services. Since we know that every team or football club, for example, has more cheerleading groups, how can they agree to arrange some sort of sports competition? Of course, the Socialists respect the need for a law like this, which will solve this problem, to bring, so, accordingly, we have proposed a series of amendments in order to fix this bill. Of course, depending on how the Proposer will act on our amendments, we will also decide on a vote for or against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31471	The word comes from MP Dragan Šormaz, the DSS parliamentary group, and then from National MP Dragan Colic, the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say, in this illogically united debate on three points of the agenda, which do not have much to do with each other, only the draft law on the prevention of violence and misbehave at sports events. To prevent us from falling out of the DSS, as we are constantly represented as some evils that are constantly working against the government of the Republic of Serbia, making some affairs and I don't know what they're up to, and the poor government is very good and working for the good of this people and the state, but that's how the people can't understand it, now I'm going to surprise you, so I'm going to say that we as DSS accept and support this bill given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we still have to realize that something was wrong about this law. In fact, this law entered the assembly procedure on March 21st, 2002, and here we've been waiting for him for a year and a half to enter the procedure. Only the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Natasa Micic, can be responsible for this. For a year and a half, we've been waiting for this for a year and a half, and in a year and a half, we've had all kinds of things in our stadiums and sports halls, for a year and a half, we've lost it because of some unconscious work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It all went on today. I had to defend our amendments to the Security Committee, which was scheduled at 11.00 a.m., and a session at 10.00 p.m., and a debate on this law began. Now, Mr. Tomaševic and I, who are signatories of the amendment, must run between the O.R. where the Security Committee and this O.R. is being held to defend our amendments to the Security Committee. We don't even know how, anyway, to talk about this law right now, since it turns out that the government accepts amendments upstairs, on the Security Committee, and now we should have some concept here and talk about the law, and we don't know how the debate will end on the Committee itself. It only speaks of the situation in which we as parliament are, and I, as a MP, am not bit by the conscience, because I did not vote for Mrs Natasa Micic to be Parliament's president. You who voted should consider whether this is the way the Assembly can be organised and done. I don't think so. On the other hand, my conscience is completely clean. This law is also necessary for our country, for the simple reason that there is indeed an increase in the number of incidents in sports events in Serbia-Montenegro. They used to be, you could say, only seen at football games. However, in the last few years, incidents have been happening to us at other sports events and sports halls, in basketball or handball games, and more and more are happening at those games that are not so-called. (expression used in the sports world) A game of increased risk, rather than a regular match of local character in municipal or regional leagues. It says a lot more about the state of society than it does about the state of sports. It's obvious that it's also being transmitted to our sport. It's interesting - we used to have 50-60,000 viewers at football games and we didn't have as many problems as we have now, when in Belgrade's capital, the football games are looking at 300, 400, 500, 1,000 people maximum. This law is quite modern and is quite in line with European laws of similar content. For example, I know from cover to cover of English law, minor by heart, he's a similar character, though, referring only to football, not all sports events, like this one. I can say that this law is quite similar to that law, and that English law has produced good results. Now that you're watching TV broadcasts, whether the League of Champions, or any game, you can see that there's no fences in the stadiums, people come family to the games, their stadiums are full. Of course, they still have hooligans, but they don't do what they do in stadiums, but outside and then some other laws, like criminal or public order and peace laws, take care of such people. That's why I think we need this law to return to our sports facilities to the audience, of course, to pay for the tickets and to restore these sports facilities. Because believe it or not, the city of Belgrade, as the capital of our country, has no stadium that meets the European standard for holding the League of Champions matches, and since 1 January 2004, there will be no stadium that meets the conditions for playing UEFA Cup. So they're doomed. For the stadiums "Partizana" and "Red Stars" don't even know who they belong to yet, i.e. You don't know who the boss of these objects is, which isn't the subject of this law, but we're in this situation. Here, I come from a town that's closest to being able to play European games at his stadium, from Smederev; it's Sartida Stadium, but it's only because it's the most modern game ever made, according to all the UEFA rules, but it's not finished for any such possibility either. It's simple, to get the audience back to the stadiums, to spin the money in sports, it takes one of these laws. However, there are a few things that we hope the government will accept on this committee, and we will invite you, when we explain these amendments, to vote for them; large responsibilities of the MUP or police are at stake, and some inaccuracies in this law. For example, we have an article 20, where at the end is said - the ringleader of a group that commits the crime described in Article 1 of this article will be punished by prison from one to five years. Our right does not know the expression of a ringleader, what is a ringleader group? It's not even a complete folk term; you know, there are some parts where you say ace and not ringleader, so simply the ringleader is not an expression for the legal system, but is a good expression - an incentivator or a supporter from the group. We asked for it to be specified, as well as a ban on entering a sports event for those from whose conduct it can be concluded that it is prone to violent or inappropriate behaviour. We've made our amendment more specific, because this is how you leave a cop who's in front of a sports facility the possibility that if a young man comes in with an ironic haircut and a earring says, "You know what, you look like a bully to me, you can't get into the stadium, even though the boy, for example, is a quiet, maybe even a good student." So we've figured out our amendments and things like that, because it leaves too much discretion to the police to decide whether or not someone is prone to violent behavior, even though it's been a tendency in our police department lately, to be not only the one chasing criminals, but also the one who accuses, judges and condemns them through the media, before the proceedings come to trial at all. The worst solution is Article 23. We call it, we will defend it on the Security Committee, a verbal delinquent, because it literally reads - exclaims slogans, meaning - a prison sentence of up to 60 days will punish a natural person if he exclaims slogans and paroles of rude and offensive content, enters or highlights transparency and other traits (and earlier it is regulated who controls the introduction of such banners, so it does not have to be allowed to be entered into the stadium or in the sports hall) or otherwise encourages hate and impatience that can lead to physical conflict among the participants of a sports event. There are other laws that regulate the punishment of people who call for hatred and impatience, religious, national and racial intolerance and hatred, so it is absolutely unnecessary for such a solution to stand in this law. And "this exclaims passwords and slogans of rude and offensive content", yet someone from the MUP, with such a formulation, can take the right to run a group of fans, for example. "Down the government" to fly the police and drive them all out, because that, my God, is offensive to the government. But we believe that such a thing is a verbal delicacy and that simply such a thing should not stand in the law. You should let people scandal what they want to scandal, only if it doesn't cause racial, religious and other hatred and impatience, but we already have it regulated by some other laws and it doesn't have to stand here. We, as the DSS, will in any case support this law, and we hope that the Security Committee will accept our amendments, and as for those it does not accept, we will ask you to accept them in a later debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31473	First, a brief notice. I am informing the members of the Committee on Justice and Administration that the 52nd session will take place at 1400 hours on the ground floor, and secondly, as several MPs point out that more than 90 days have passed since the law was passed in the procedure, I would like to remind MPs that we are now under the full six months past the regular session, in which we passed 39 laws, and we have had nine extraordinary sessions and that there are now 37 other laws in the procedure. The truth is that some have been waiting for more than two years, and I, because it's a purely formality, is the same legal proposal, if you really think it's a fundamental problem, but I don't see that it is except maybe a formal one, I'm going to send a letter to the government to re-propose the same proposals for laws that have expired 90 days. The word has a folk MP Dragan Colic, and the next more registered Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31474	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the government of the Republic of Serbia is very little interested in the opinion of our MPs. It is obvious that someone is in a hurry to conclude the debate as soon as possible, and for these reasons the agenda points are increasingly combined; thus, the quality of the debate is reduced and the time needed for serious debate on the proposed laws. The Serbian Parliament should not rush anywhere. It has to be rational to access the proposed laws, not to waste jobs being sloppy. The government is the executive government, which should work quickly in the interests of Serbian citizens. Is there organised crime in Serbia or is there no crime? According to Justice Minister Vladan Batic and Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, there is and there is no. They make statements about how they are given the interests of day-to-day policy. The SRS has already given you an opinion on the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in countering organised crime. More than once, SRS deputies have proved to be unconstitutional. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must be respected until eventually the other vote is passed. There is no excuse for breaking the constitution, not at all, and even when, according to Minister Batic, the state had to react in extreme need; and in the extreme need of state and government, it must act solely on the basis of the authority given to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We don't need frequent additions to the Penal Code. It kind of reminds me of those cell phone supplementes 063 and 064. It's too often that the laws are fulfilled. It's adding something that's empty. You have experts, let them sit down and make a serious bill, frequent changes and supplements don't benefit anyone. As for the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events, it will not bring about positive change in sports. Sports clubs will be forced to contract with the MUP and the most useful will be the one who knows best, popular Uncle Dule, Dusan Mihajlovic, interior minister. Unfortunately, young people who are most often involved in sports events suffer. Politics, thanks to you, was deeply involved in sports. Here's an example: Nebojsa Lekovic has found his own interesting sphere in the Serbia-Montenegro Football Federation. Here, some time ago, you applauded the delegation of Slovenia, and we saw how the Slovenians did everything to allow the bad organisation of Europe's water polo championships to wild Croatian fans. There is no national pride, so we are not in a position for Azerbaijan to win football, just for mixing and abuse in Serbia-Montenegro's Football Federation. The riots in the stands, violence and fighting are sometimes ordered from political centres of power. The Serbian Radical Party believes politicians should not interfere in the work of sports clubs, and therefore MPs or members of the Serbian Radical Party are not in the management of sports clubs because many of them insist on breaking the law. Serbian radicals do not want to participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31475	The word is made by MP Milan Jankovic, and then by MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31476	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Presidency, Socialists do not dispute the need for adoption, nor the reasons why the Proposer proposes the adoption of a law on the prevention of violence and misbehave at sports events. For us, some of the provisions of the draft law and the role of the state bodies to be given by this bill are disputed. Not only are the riots and violence at major sports events, with the media giving special attention, but also the events that take place on sports fields and around them in the so-called ". Small leagues across Serbia, in almost all competition sports, not just football and basketball. And it's a big delusion that it's the product of our sport and sports competition. The error is shared by the legislator when most of the obligations are determined for sports organisations, which are most at risk by the very existence of riots and violence. Sports organisations have established standards in line with international associations in all sports. They provide sanctions for the violation of these rules, which are very rigorous compared to the players in sports competitions. What this law should regulate is how to protect sport and competition from those behaviors that qualify in other spheres of life as a violation and criminal offense, and they refer to observers, viewers, fans, what they individually or grouply do. For example, the disciplinary bodies of sports associations of the organizers of sports competitions with fines, the ban on the presence of viewers in the contest's stands, the ban on playing on the sport facility, until the club's out of the contest. This example shows that sport has built mechanisms for direct protection of interest, but that I am unable to fight this evil that threatens to destroy the very essence of sport and competition as universal human values and needs. That is why the state is expected to make this effort more effective in what is the role of the state, not that the state prescribes by law what is already a adopted practice of conduct, Article 7. It's a bill of law. Many countries in Europe have regulated and taken that role. There's an impression that the bill promoter in our case wants to make a little money on the budget when a large part of the commitment comes to the back of a disabled sport anyway, Article 19. It's a bill of law, not to contribute to a more successful defense against this danger. This proposal did not establish an appropriate link with the laws governing the field of sport, especially the Law on Sports. This is important because this law regulates certain concepts and issues that are relative to the provision of this proposal. A number of clubs compete in sports facilities that are held and managed by them, and a number rents terms in sports facilities operated by enterprises, institutions, municipalities or cities, and are unable to influence more significantly the implementation of the legal provisions that apply to them as organizers.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31477	The word is from MP Zeljko Tomic. He's not there. After him is the word of the Messenger of the people, Lazarus of Marjan, but he is not present either. The People's Messenger George Mamula is not present. National MP Joca Arsic - not present. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Vojnovic. He is the last registered speaker in the principle search, so if one of the MPs who are at the Committee's session did not show up after Mr Vojnovic's discussion, we would move to a discussion in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31478	My colleagues and colleagues, Mrs. Comic, there are no government representatives, no transmissions, and maybe it's better to make a mini-seminary here, depending on our affinities and education, about individual laws. I wanted to say something from the aspect of my education on the law that was named as the bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events. You heard from my colleagues from the Democratic Party of Serbia that they think this law is necessary. I believe it is necessary, as they do, but not with the government's explanation, which is - given that in recent years in the Republic of Serbia, there has been an increasing presence of violent and inappropriate audience behaviour in sports events, especially in football and basketball games, the social danger of this kind of behavior regarding his situation creates a need for such a law. What is the highlight - this is a basic prerequisite to prevent further escalation of violent and inappropriate behavior. What I'm saying is that this is not a reason and that we're going to have a more and more situation where we're going to have fewer viewers at our sports events, and more and more so-called. Violent behavior. What bothers me in the law itself is this second reason, I do not consider the European Convention, and that is that, apart from violent behavior, it is defined as misbehaving. I suppose it has been translated, however, to define misbehavior in the law is very difficult. Unfortunately, you yourself know, colleagues, that even in our Rules of Procedure, we couldn't define what inappropriate behavior is. What's an inappropriate behavior at a football game and what's at a water polo game? I'm going to ask if proper behavior is when the foreign minister jumps into a suit in the pool? Is it misbehaving or is it in some way what's nice? So it's hard to define. What I want to talk about and what I insist on is that this law, in my opinion, does not want to discipline all viewers. On the contrary, there are mental-hygienic measures in the business I have been dealing with, and the law is one mental-hygienic measure for certain population groups, which are groups of age, so adolescents, generational age and older life. Whether we want to or not, this law applies to that target group we call adolescents. However, we cannot, by one law, prevent the behavior we have called inappropriate. In man's behavior, we have three factors: a factor of man, a factor of the outside environment, and a factor of the means at which he consumed. The man is as characterologically defined, and the outside environment implies education, general and social organization, structure, school, the ability to meet his basic life needs, and in the conditions when he is brought up in adolescence by identification with parents (so as not to be some essay from psychiatry), with a sports idol, and he is unable to do so, then on certain provocations in the group, when a phenomenon occurs, as we call it a pack, he will try to satisfy his urges by not recognising it now and here. What was I gonna say? It cannot be prevented by law and it is the task of all of us, and the Government in the first place to try to meet certain economic and sociological needs of these young people, in a way that certain values that exist, which are family, traditional, national, which are not, in the meantime, replaced by some other values, encourages this violent behavior not to occur. That's what I was gonna say. Secondly, I believe that the repression itself, in a way that will be decided by the police who is the potential cause of the riots at sports events, is not going to achieve much. To conclude, not to speak for long, it is the task of all of us to try to direct these young people in a way that is suitable for the situation in which we live, to repeat once again, the traditions that exist, the family, the national mile, and the law should be just one of the means that will be able to help us. In that sense, this law is also needed with certain amendments proposed by my colleagues, we will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31479	The word has been given by MP Rajko Baralic, as a member of the Security Committee, who held a meeting during the assembly session and that is why he was not present. Are any of the other Members of the Committee asking for a word? No, I don't. ) The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31480	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, sports events cannot be solved, unfortunately, by any law. That's one sociological problem. People who make these incidents don't do it because they love or don't like sports; in this way they show one emotion that has a whole other impulse. And, if I may say so, without being interpreted as not to, with democracy growing in all societies in the environment and otherwise increasing the number of incidents in sports competitions, because otherwise the rise in crime in the world, unfortunately, is linked to the democratisation of certain societies. This problem could be resolved in a legal sense by the law on sport, and it is already resolved, or should be resolved by the Law on Public Order and Peace. The law on sports lobbys "Red Star" and "Partizana" has long been removed from the assembly procedure because the issue of property of the football stadiums "Partizan" and "Red Star" has not been resolved. I remind you that the stadium "Partizan" is owned by the Army of Serbia-Montenegro, and "Star" Stadium is a city stadium and that it is impossible for us to accept that the association of citizens, as a group property, is available to these two stadiums. But what matters to us here is - is it possible that this lobby is so strong that it suspends from the assembly procedure the law on sport, which otherwise this question could be resolved in a complete and correct way. If we were to stay in the position that incidents at all public events are being solved by special laws, then we would get the law to prevent violence at concerts, at some other events; this would lead us to madness. Another element is very important. People who make incidents at sports events, unfortunately, are often directly encouraged by the administration of clubs or some other informal power centers, which, for their account and their interest, create riots, manifest an incredible degree of violence, intolerance, often questioning the safety of all participants in the sports event. So, if we want to be honest, we can't almost remember when a parent took a minor to a sports event, because for a few years now, for the safety of our children, we're not able to take them to sports events that they'd like to see. We had an opportunity earlier, unfortunately, to hear that among these evildoers is the flower of the youth of our society. These days we got a chance to hear it again, the hooligans, the circle is closed. I want to say that hooligans are always hooligans, that everything needs to be done to sanction their behavior, but more than that should be done to avoid such behavior. The State has instruments at its disposal that can be achieved. Unfortunately, those who come to sports events to make incidents there come from suburbs, from the socially most problematic families. They're often people who can't eat. The most common are persons who have no qualifications and most often are people who do what they do at sports events because they have a lack of identity and because it is a way to be publicly exposed and to leave their, unfortunately, often tragic, stamp on social life. This law has the ambition to reduce the number of incidents and reduce the number of misdemeanors at sports events. I'm not optimistic that this will be possible because there is no environment, there is no social mile that is necessary for this to be channeled in another sense. We have come into absurd situations, that fans' clubs are being abused for political purposes, that some of them are directly instrumentalising political parties, that their interest and their account are doing things that are otherwise not allowed under the Law on Political Parties, or by any other law that exists in our country. Let everyone think about this. This evil is great. This social evil is so large that these days we have been able to see what the negative effect of such action is. What's a sport and what's not, we're almost in no position to distinguish anymore. With regard to concrete legal solutions - the Security Committee, which is one of the committees responsible, has not accepted any amendments to the Socialist Party of Serbia, but I would like to say and warn the MPs of this environment, that there is no problem in defining sports events, since this law defines it. I remind you that the events that take place at the hypodromic non-sports event. According to the rules of the international committee, sport is only that sport, therefore, prenautical sport and dressuring, gallop and cassal games fall under sports events, but under something else. So that we can't act on the bad guys at the track for formal reasons because the track isn't a sports object de facto unless these two events are held on it. I think the very intention in parliament to discuss this law at the same time as two other laws, which can hardly be related to this, is that we have not taken this issue seriously. I also want to say that the political services of all these groups should be deprived and those who use their services should be severely sanctioned. I know you know exactly what I'm talking about here. Since we all know what this is all about, then there's no need to have a dilemma about where evil comes from. This ghost came out of a bottle and he needs to be very careful and put back where he belongs for a very long time. If we are fair to ourselves, if we are fair to what we should do in this country, we must return the sport because of those for which it exists, and not that the sport competitions of the highest possible rank represent an opportunity for these or those informal political or some other power centers to be so outvoted with some, which is a place that is not set for it and that is not the time for it. Since I don't know if there are any more registered members of my parliamentary group, there isn't, I have more time? All right, anyway, here's another thing I'm going to say, I'm asking that, as soon as possible, the law on sports is found in the procedure of the Serbian Parliament because it can solve the problem in a way that's better, that the Sports Administration is reporting to us. Among other things, as it is possible that two marketing agencies, and they are led by wives of the most responsible officials at the Sports Authority, are the officials of the Democratic Centre, are doing the "Play for Life" campaign, and not by other campaigns, which are paid by the Virman's husbands, spending budget money; these Virmans have a few dozen million, this thing and some others will be discussed when we talk about sports. One more thing, why haven't we been on assembly benches for two years, and we have a procedure, gambling law? It's very important for this area, because it's funded by a large number of clubs. What's this lobby that's been able to keep two years in the drawer of the gambling bill? I know what it is, and I don't know why someone agrees to be like that, and why we don't have the opportunity to have small sports organisations, to fund humanitarian organisations and their humanitarian needs from gambling and other things across Serbia. It's got nothing to do with sports and sports betting, I don't dare say here what that has to do with it, because I can be shorter by the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31481	This is a exhausted list of speakers. Is MP Joca Arsic a member of the Committee to which the meeting was held, are you a member of the Committee, whose meeting was held during the session of the Assembly? You have no right to speak. There are no more entries on the lists of MPs for the word. Before concluding a joint principled search, I ask if the President, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 89, would like to do so. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Misbehavior at Sports Events. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Organization and Jurisdiction of State Organies in the Subsidisation of Organized Criminal (Statificence) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Vjerica Radeta, Milovanovic, Marko Culibrk, Dragan Todorovic and Bogoljub Zečević. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31482	As the Proposer, and before 90 days had elapsed, already in the transitional provisions of this law that we are now amending suggested that the provisions of Article 15v, g, d, d, d, d, would be reviewed and that it had given us the opportunity to intervene in Article 15, we have submitted an amendment which I am now going to explain, as regards the terminology of this law, or the introduction of a special detention unit. So we ask that the title above Article 15 and Article 15 be changed and said: "4. Detention - Article 15. In Belgrade County Prison, detention measures are being carried out which are laid down in criminal proceedings for criminal offences determined by this law. The minister responsible for the affairs of justice shall be governed by the organisation, work and treatment of detainees under Article 1 in accordance with the Code on Criminal Procedure and the Law on the execution of criminal sanctions. "This removes the wrong and incorrect coverage of the premises in which detention is carried out as one of the measures to ensure the presence of the accused and the smooth conduct of the criminal proceedings. The question arises whether we are entering into our legal system the terminology that comes to us from the infamous, for us Serbs, the UN tribunal? Why do we need a term - a detention unit, when every Serb associates it to The Hague and the evil fate that has hit us, related to The Hague tribunal? He's got the impression he's a proposing, i.e. This government is so condescending to those who condition the adoption of certain laws and the alignment allegedly with the laws of the European Union, that they agree to do what they should not do. If there's a prison, if there's a prison, county prison, then why is there a special detention unit for those who are suspected of committing some crime in the repression of organized crime? It is as if you want to show that you should be easier hands when it comes to donations, foreign loans, so if we recognize those terms that are very annoying, it will probably be something more generous, and I can see that Djelic is not satisfied either, and Svilanovic is not satisfied. They'll hand over the Sljivancan, whom they arrested, and if they'll get what they expected for him as a promise, that's the question. We'll see how Thessalonica goes. It all seems to start and end with Thessaloniki after all. For now, as we hear, there are 17 more indictments in The Hague against those who are not in our country's territory and are not our citizens. We'll have this session to discuss the bill against war criminals. That's where we reintroduce this term - a special detention unit. I'm sorry that the motionary's not here to explain to me why we're going with this, why we don't keep the terminology that exists in the Criminal Procedure Act, why the county prison can't serve all those who did any crime, even if there are war crimes. Although we will talk about this law later, the title suggests that we have condemned some of them in advance to commit a war crime, even though it is yet to be proved.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31483	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31484	In addition to these material reasons discussed by Mrs Pop-Lazic, I must point out the obvious opposite of this provision of the law on the repression of organised crime with the Constitution and with the Code of Criminal Procedure. I must remind you that last October of last year, the Federal Assembly adopted amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and incorporated provisions from 504 to 504h. These are the provisions of Chapter 29a, special provisions on criminal offences of organised crime. Paragraph 2 of Article 504a states: ‘If the provisions of this Chapter for cases referred to in Article 1 of this Article are not specifically prescribed, other provisions of this Code will be applied accordingly’. Other provisions of this Code of Criminal Procedure say "prisonment", and they do not say "prisonment unit", when it comes to detention, the conditions and the way it is determined, how long it can last, and there are specific provisions that state that the measure is carried out providing for the mandatory presence of the accused for the conduct of the criminal proceedings. Incarceration as a measure is carried out in county prisons, and the Code of Criminal Procedure says - Special Room, that is, the room where this man is staying until the criminal proceedings are completed. And the formal reasons suggest that in a special law, for which there is no constitutional basis to be passed as a special law at the republican level, we do not have the right to hold this room in a county prison where detained persons are temporarily held, and other than that, there is another reason, because the termology of the detention unit points to something that is associated with The Hague tribunal. The translation is both a court and a tribunal, depending on the text to be read. There are special rules based on statutes, where judges themselves allow themselves to write proceedings. Perhaps they needed to call it a special detention unit for translation, within Cheveningen, because Cheveningen is a prison of the Kingdom of Holland, a regular prison. Within that prison, there are two blocs, intended primarily for the lodging of indictees, Serbs waiting. You see, we haven't had that "processing" for a few months. I guess these leaders and officials have learned that it means nothing in Serbia. We must not use this term in our legislation, because it does not mean anything, and this term does not only associate, but does not correspond with the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions or with the Code of Criminal Procedure, and by special law we cannot violate the uniform legal-political system. So it's not just about terminology, it's about essence, because someone who's used to this terminology and this jargon is trying to introduce us to this way of thinking, and that meaning that The Hague gives us the concept of detention units. That is why we have proposed this amendment. We ask that the National Assembly accept this amendment, because if this amendment is not accepted, then this will be the first exception, and if, God forbid, you vote on that pre-lated law, which concerns war crimes, it will be the second case where the laws of this country are renegotiated, and the National Assembly must not violate its previous laws, especially those of the laws that regulate certain areas in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31485	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Culibrk. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31486	Dear People's MPs, I have proposed in the amendment to Article 1 that, in addition to the proposed members who are deleted, Articles 15v, 15g, 15d and 15d, only paragraphs 2 and 3, and Article 1, which reads: "For particularly justified reasons, on the reasoned proposal of a special prosecutor or president of a special department of the district court, the Supreme Court of Serbia may extend the detention by a maximum of three months". We suggest that this position be deleted too, because, as the reason for the adoption of this law stands, these members who have been proposed to delete were not in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act and with international conventions, and they are also anti-constitutional. We believe that this position should also be deleted, because it is unacceptable to give a flat-rate assessment, that, on a reasoned request, a special prosecutor may propose an extension of the detention by another three months. What are the reasons? When do they exist? It is very difficult to let one man decide, because in practice we see for these three months that these views are politicised and that the issue of freedom and detention is no longer a legal or criminal law principle, but above all becomes a political principle. That's why we suggest that Article 15j's position be deleted as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31487	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new member. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after article 1. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31488	The adoption of this amendment is not only legally possible but it is also necessary to exclude from this non-constitutional law all provisions concerning the powers of special authorities. The powers of the special authorities for this prosecution are contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure. What Mr Batic here suggested in April of the month to go as an authority, these are all those provisions from 15a to 15a, which are given too broad powers that violate the fundamental human rights of every individual in this country. I particularly underline, this amendment requires the removal of Articles 2 and 3 of the basic text of this law, as these provisions are directly contrary to the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. These provisions in a more complete manner regulate what the proposer thinks is the authority of the special law enforcement authorities, and of the detention, and of the means of providing evidence, as well as the very essence of the fight against organised crime. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, there are provisions that allow authorities responsible for the fight against organised crime to use and simulated transactions, of course, in co-operation with the court, based on a written act by the competent judge, to use an undercover investigator, to use another measure called controlled delivery. In the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, there is even that famous witness associate. So, if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia wanted to curb organised crime, overcome powers, set up special departments of police, prosecutors and prosecution courts, then let it use everything that exists in the existing Code of Criminal Procedure. That is why it is necessary for all these provisions to be thrown out, so that this law is as much like something and that we can control the executive authority and the judicial authority so that it does not violate human rights. This bill and what has been done for the past three months with people who have been arrested, media defiled, even insinuating that there are certain political parties behind organised crime, however, here for 15 days no member of the government has accused the SRS of being an instigator, not even a financier, and that I am not saying everything we have had the opportunity to hear without any shreds and criminal and moral responsibility, so it is necessary to throw out these powers provisions and to allow the regular procedure to exercise control. This law proves that the famous maximum -- it's better, better quality, to have 1,000 criminals at large, without an innocent man spending one day in jail. How do we think we're protecting human rights with such improvisations in the fight against organised crime? In this action, "Sabbe" organized crime was not destroyed, it just changed its forms, a new mafia formed, because the previous one had to be destroyed. This is the result of this action, and drugs still exist, money laundering still exists, organised crime continues to flourish, and the government acts tragically when two or three months of talking about organised crime, and the other day Minister Dusan Mihajlovic comes out and says - organized crime no longer exists. If there's no organized crime, then why do we need the law? What do we need special powers for? Yesterday, in a principle debate, I told you: the existing Code of Criminal Procedure allows every person for whom there is a high degree of probability, i.e. a reasonable suspicion that he has committed some crime for almost four years in custody, but the problem that people go to custody without any evidence, that during the detention, no evidence is provided to justify detention and investigation, some new crimes are allegedly being invented. It's inadmissible, it's forbidden, it's proof that we're not going towards the path of human rights and democratisation, but we're going towards repression.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31489	Five minutes. Do you also use time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Dragan Todorovic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31490	When adopting the Law on Organisation and the jurisdiction of the state authorities in the repression of organised crime, we of the SRS have tabled a series of amendments to which we have referred to the Government and the MPs that the proposed text is contrary to the Constitution and to international declarations of human rights. During these changes, it is obvious that the government has accepted, even with a delay of two months, part of the SRS amendment, so I hope that even with a delay, these amendments that we have filed today will be accepted to amend this so-called law. organized crime. Yesterday I said that, however, I expected the government to propose that this law be put out of effect, because it is unnecessary that there is a law in the state that regulates the matter that does not exist in the state. Minister Mihajlovic says there is no organised crime in Serbia. Yesterday and the day before, Minister Batic said some people who are members of the Zemun clan, who have committed organised crime, are being arrested. I don't know what's true, but it's only true that you're still trying with these amendments to the law that you're violating fundamental human rights, and that's where the amendments that the SRS filed are. In particular, this amendment applies to Article 2 and is proposed to delete that member, for the reason that our Criminal Code, and Article 146. The criminal code regulates what is provided for in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending the law on the so-called Law. organized crime. In a completely identical way, this was solved, so in Article 146. The law on criminal proceedings. Why is the government still trying to keep this in that special law? One logical explanation is that this is because the government still intends to distinguish between criminals. There are still good and bad criminals for the government. For the government, there are still criminals who are willing to co-operate, so-called Cooperative and those who are not, who are not cooperative. I wonder if Slavomir Bandur is a criminal related to the Zemun clan, what is the difference between him and Zoran Vukojevic Vuko, who is also designated as a member of the Zemun clan? One's a good criminal, the other's a bad criminal. Zoran Vukojevic is a good criminal, because he gives the information required of him, and the other is not a good criminal, because he gives information that affects the reputation and legality of the Serbian government. As for us in the SRS, for us every criminal is a bad criminal, and we certainly wouldn't do the classification this way, and we would apply the same regulation to every criminal. Surely we would not hide behind statements by some criminals and thus protect the government, as has been the case for three days now, when it comes to this government and when it comes to the appearance of a Slavir Bandur and one Zoran Vukojevic. Obviously, according to what we hear in the media, both of them are from the same group, if that group ever existed that way. Everything is questionable, and above all, because of the different statements made by the members of the government who are accusing each other. One day we hear this guy's connected, the other day he's denying it, he says it's not me, it's him. Now, I ask myself, and ask yourself, how many members of the government were in connection with the Zemun clan in the first place, and it's obviously in a fat relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31491	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31492	Article 2 The bill should remain. Most of them will probably vote him out. But be assured that they will remain as evidence that we have debated in the National Assembly for days about something that is pointless. It's pointless because it's all regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure. If the proposer considered it necessary to remain this way, Article 2 for a few words defining who is first-degree and second-degree body, it is also unnecessary, because in some other provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Organized Crime, it has precisely defined that it is a special division of the district court and a special division of the Court of Appeal, which does not yet exist. The binding of a first-degree and second-degree body in a regulation that regulates detention is really pointless, because this provision is not going to be applied by any judge. All will apply the Code of Criminal Procedure and those provisions governing the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. But, you see, the National Assembly is also experiencing this kind of demeanor, because we've been talking about some laws here for months, we're having some debate, believe me, we're talking about some issues and areas that aren't at all interested in our citizens. It is likely that whoever has proposed such amendments to the law has come to the conclusion -- that the MPs in this room, without television transmission, are better entertained by the provisions of meaningless laws than on their municipal committees or on the streets, in barricades, where they would communicate with citizens. The promoter practically confirms that we have an extended state of emergency today. It's been extended through the media, there's no TV transmission, there's no way we can turn to our voters and show them what we've been suffering from this government for the last few months, to just play like a cat and a mouse, now we're going to change, tomorrow we're going to change what we've changed to erase. That's probably interesting, probably someone thinks it's the greatest range in political action, but I have to warn everyone, and the opposition authorities, that according to the results, it appreciates the success and failure of some policy, not the political mangoupluk -- whether someone will be wise enough, grudging enough to plant something while everything in the state is falling apart. "Mama sings, combs her hair, and around her burns the village." (President: Please talk about the content of the amendment. ) Yes, yes, that is exactly the content of the amendment, Mrs. Komic, because this amendment is directly related to the situation and to what the executive authority and individual courts and prosecutors have done for the past few months, because you know that we adopted a provision here last time that says - within 90 days we will review whether we are going to apply the law. It comes about as it was yesterday, with those two consecutive remarks to DSS deputies. Whenever the conflict between MPs and Ceda Jovanovic is won by Ceda Jovanovic. And now the same thing. When it comes to conflict between this law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which contains those provisions guaranteeing minimum professionality, Vladan Batic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31493	National MP, I warn you that according to the Rules of Procedure, you are required to talk about the content of the amendments you have submitted to a member of the law and use the last minute to discuss the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31494	Well, yes, ma'am, I've been talking about detention all along and I'm talking about a fact that I don't believe you're familiar with. In the Code of Criminal Procedure, everything is absolutely regulated when it comes to detention. Absolutely everything. And we can't accept and we can't make peace with someone planting cowardly eggs; they're going through organ powers and they're always returning us to the decision to introduce an emergency, to order measures to be implemented; to remind ourselves that the Constitutional Court didn't assess the consent of that decision and orders to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We keep coming back and going round and round about the same question -- how to protect the human rights of those people for whom there is absolutely no proof that they belong, and they're media-coated, they're being held in custody. Ask some lawyers how long they've been waiting for the judge's approval to allow a visit. Well, believe me, so many thousands of lawyers didn't make a mistake when they wanted to strike, because they just didn't want to participate in these proceedings, to be accomplices to human rights violations. It's all about this amendment, it's all about Article 2. A bill of law that can't stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31495	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bogoljub Zecevic has submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a be added after Article 2. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The applicant for the amendment is not present. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, the applicant of the amendment wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31496	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the prevention of organised crime because we believe it is necessary to comply with the provisions of Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the time of entry into force of the laws or other legal acts adopted in the National Assembly. We all know that, at a time when these amendments and additions to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the fight against organised crime were discussed, Minister Vladan Batic, as well as MPs of the ruling majority, said a lot of words about this speaker in order to justify the adoption of such amendments and the addition of the law. They said that the fight against organised crime and against individuals from organised crime groups is much more effective and will be more effective if the law is passed, even if it is contrary to certain provisions of our legal system and international applicable acts. And then we said, as we now know, that these provisions are contrary to the International Convention, to the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil and Political Freedoms, but yet you justified and voted to pass this law. I'm making this introduction precisely because I'm showing you how pointless it is that you've passed this law in such an emergency procedure, that it's so urgent, so important, so important, but now all of a sudden in Article 3. The bill requires that the provisions of this law enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Here you apply the exception to the rules that exist in Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, except for particularly justified reasons, is subject to a specific draft law after eight days have elapsed. You, in the light of this bill, have not stated what particularly justified circumstances are which are why you suggest that this law enter into force the next day of publication in the Official Messenger. As a signator of this amendment, I believe there is only one reason why the law will come into force as soon as possible. In the bill of law, you asked that Article 15ð of the applicable provisions of this law, and Section 1, remain in force, and paragraphs 2 and 3 to be deleted. The position of the 1st member predicts that the Serbian Supreme Court can extend the detainee's detention within three months, on a proposal from a special prosecutor or president of a special district court department. By the position of the 2nd member, you have predicted that there is no right to appeal for such a decision to extend the detention until three months. It can only be an excuse for you to rush this bill to come into effect immediately after its publication, to speed up many ambiguities and many reasons why in recent times, during the state of emergency and during the extended state of emergency, you have taken some illegal action and measures, only to justify and conceal something that really happened in connection with the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and all that happened afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31497	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31498	The Serbian Radical Party believes there is no reason why this law should not enter into force in the manner and within the deadlines set by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but we are taking the opportunity to say why you provided for this shorter deadline, that is, the next day of publication. Probably the promoter counts that way to show mildness, but according to whom. It shows mildness towards those who have been calling through all the media for three months, and reportedly proved that persons belonging to a group called organised crime, so now it is simply not clear when the government is the real government, which is its real position. Did we ever change this law a few months ago or today? Last time, there was that rigor, rigorism. You remember that statement by Minister Dusan Mihajlovic -- who tries the maltenes to resist the police, will be liquidated. And immediately the next day, two key witnesses were liquidated by the system so that the dead mouth couldn't speak. Now it seems the circumstances have changed or, to be precise, the odds have changed. It seems that those who are tracking this direct transmission across the Internet in both the country and abroad can no longer justify what was done in the last few months since 12 March 2003, because apparently they too have become aware that all that has been done can be put on one camera and that it is said that all evidence of the abuses of power. This mildness, if this law were to come into force the next day, would mean that all those who are in custody or at some stage of the procedure under those provisions of the law, which are deleted under Article 1 of this proposal, would practically be free, so it would appear that they were released by the law and by the National Assembly and that they were released, which is of course not true. If there are reasons why these people are allowed to defend themselves from freedom and to be no longer in custody, then there is no need for law, this amendment of law, but it is necessary to apply existing laws. You see, it's hard for the executive to admit that she was wrong, and these changes that are on the agenda today are caused by the kind of pressure that came from abroad. Not only these NGOs fighting for the protection of human rights, not only of the lawyers and the bar attorneys, but also of other international organisations who simply don't want to stand behind this. Many in the Council of Europe do not want to be identified with this authority. This government has created a picture of citizens that everything they do with consent and by order of the West, and the West does not want Serbian citizens to have a picture of them anymore based on the representatives of this government, and that is one reason why this law is required to enter into force urgently. The dots don't count, we were joking, we were wrong. Dude's gone, he only left his books. He's gunned down, angry, probably because the death penalty didn't come back. Few of them have the nerve to be here and hear what happened. It happened exactly what we warned you about two months ago that it was going to happen. That is why it is much better, even unconstitutional, but in those final provisions let the law enter into force as prescribed by the Constitution. I'm taking this opportunity, since we're at the end of this law, Madam Chairman, I don't think we have a quorum to work here. We don't have it all morning, so I'd like to ask them to take these cards out, to establish the quorum, and see who wants to do it, and who doesn't want to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31499	On the proposal of MP Zoran Krasic, and according to the Rules of Procedure, please determine if we have a quorum to work with. I would ask the MP to make a request for quorum in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the second time, by respecting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I understand we have a quorum to work with. By amendment to Article 3, does any of the other authorised participants come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Complementary to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia (Serbs) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Živodarka Dacin, Miomir Ilic, Toma Busetic, Ljubomir Mucic, Marko Culibrk, Zoran Krasic, Dragan Ljubojevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Milovanovic and Stevan Kesejić. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search, under which the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31500	With this amendment and the following amendments, the Serbian Radical Party has proposed that these members of the Bill on Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia be deleted, for the simple reason that these extras are unnecessary, because they deeply affect something called the work of the court and the exercise of judicial office. I tried in the principle debate to point out that in the existing Criminal Law, the Basic, as it is now called, there is a provision of article 69, which provides a measure of confiscation of the case, which was used for the execution of the crime and the case that was committed. I have indicated to you that if this object is property of a criminal offence, it is taken away; if that object is the property of a third party, it is taken away under certain circumstances. I also pointed out the third position which states that an exceptional law can prescribe that this measure is mandatory for certain crimes. This degree of social danger and the elements of every crime is determined by the National Assembly when it defines a certain criminal act and prescribes sanctions and regulations. Last time I pointed out that the right was used by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that there are several members of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia in which the measure is mandatory and prescribed, with criminal sanctions being imposed. I have also pointed out the illogical nature of this assessment of the degree of social danger and the justification of expressing this measure; and perhaps it is a very good example of just the crime of Article 228. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, which is the creation and acquisition of weapons and funds intended to carry out crimes. Within the scope of that article, there is no mandatory measure of confiscation of cases. Most of you probably agree that this is not logical, because if the crime is not necessarily taken, what other crime would be required, if the degree of social danger is observed, if the protection of good is observed, if it is observed and determined the way a crime was done. This proposal for a law supplementing this law practically complements only those provisions that we last installed in the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia (and this is the whole set of crimes), which are allegedly protected by copyright, protected by minors, protected by Microsoft, as the author of the largest number of computer programs that are apparently located at some stage of abuse and need protection. There is no excuse at all why these crimes should make this measure mandatory. Why should it be mandatory, when this discretion exists with a judge who gives a first degree sentence? Last time I pointed out that there was no mandatory measure of confiscation in the murder. But, by logic, no judge will allow himself the luxury of condemning someone for the crime of murder without giving a measure of taking away a gun, a gun, a knife or another criminal act. Simply, the judges apply it according to some automation, based on court practice, rich court practices, positions that are practically binding for judges. They actually create this criminal policy, the views of the Supreme Court, the views of all our courts, as regards the application of the relevant provisions of Criminal Law. That's why there's no reason for us to protect Microsoft with the mandatory confiscation of the case, if it's in traffic, if it's happened, etc. And if I were to remain this provision... (President: five minutes. Could I continue? (President: Are you using another time? Here you go. ) If it is mandatory to take the case, believe me, some crimes would lead us to a pointless situation. If someone on a computer there has created a virus, or that computer has entered a system and disrupted something there, and it is now a criminal offence, that computer, maybe in your house, if someone broke into the house and used it, is the subject of a criminal act and is being taken away from you by this explicit provision of this law. And this must be the measure, and it is weak that you shall have the right to compensation from the perpetrator of the crime. This calls for this to be the discretionary authority of the judge, who, given the way in which the crime was committed, the degree of social danger and all the circumstances under which the offence took place, especially the circumstances after the offence was committed, to assess whether there was room for this measure to be applied. If this is the way it gets heated, cemented, then believe me, there's no logical explanation why it's not intended for other crimes. Is it possible that even this way we have to prove that we allegedly took all the measures, installed everything in our regulations, in order to protect the copyright of foreigners? Well, I guess we're protecting the copyright of our people, our citizens. Where does this urge make everything that comes as a warrant have to be carried out, even if it's pointless in our circumstances? This may have excuses in Germany, France, but in our legal-political system, this is tragic, because it devalues our court, devalues the existing views of judicial practice, binding judicial practice, excludes the possibility that the judge determines all the circumstances and assesses, and the proposer even goes so far as to explain a few things that directly offend all the people who deal with the judge's profession. It's practically a law that expresses mistrust with judges. Why mistrust? Is this how they should be lastrated? Is this how they need to be further squeezed, pressured, that they have to do something at all costs? Circumstances, for example, indicate that it is not justified to express that measure at all. The National Assembly is authorized to assess the degree of social danger. The National Assembly is authorized and obliged to see if this degree of human rights endangerment has occurred, that it is necessary for all these crimes to be subject to this measure. We of the Serbian Radical Party believe that there is no reason for this measure to be mandatory in the entire complex of these crimes covered by this supplement of the Criminal Law, but should be left to the judges, in accordance with the rules, in accordance with the law, assessment, fortification and decision whether to apply this measure. Of course, this part of the agenda fits into that previous story, which is why I'm being warned, we're dealing with trivial things, yet the village burns, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31501	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the next amendment by content is a proposal to add a new Article 1a after Article 1. National MP Živodarka Dacin submitted an amendment proposing that Article 1 be sent to a new member of the 1st, adding the name of a new crime after Article 54a of the Law and new members of 54b and 54v. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a folk emissary of the Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31502	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow MPs, is that few of us are present here, but I believe that there are colleagues who remember that the etiology of this amendment actually began on 9 or 10 April this year, when we had the last amendments and additions to the Criminal Law. I had this amendment back then. He was not accepted, with the explanation of Minister Batic that this should be installed with the first next change to come and that he should do the legal-technical redecoration. The question arises whether we are competent at all and whether it makes sense for me to explain the amendment in the same way, if Minister Batic is not present here. I agree that the report for the introduction of this new crime by the Justice and Administration Committee rejected the amendments, as well as all amendments submitted by the opposition MPs, but there is one conclusion that the Committee has decided to ask the Ministry of Justice for a report on the need to introduce a new criminal act of forced confiscation and trafficking to newborn and minor children, which is actually the meaning of the amendment, which I once again proposed on behalf of the SPS. I don't have an opinion from the Justice Department. I think it would really be too much for the answer to be that there is no need to introduce a new crime when we are all aware of the fact that there is doubt, but let us determine the truth, whether it is justified or not, that it is increasingly public presence that many mothers from the maternity ward have left without their child, even with inadequate documentation from the hospital in which the baby, unfortunately, existed. There is doubt that these children, or newborns, are being abused, parents suspect that they are in other families. Can we really give ourselves the right to prevent these crimes from being committed in our criminal law? Last time I spoke, the families, about 130 signatures, I had in my hands, there were more, they were just trying to get to the truth. Like she'll be, defeating or not, let's let these people, these families, these parents determine the truth about what really happened to their newborn children. I don't know how much longer I can appeal, because I understand that all of you MPs from the DOS, and it is up to them whether or not this amendment will be accepted, I know that Minister Batic is here and if he would give his explanation and be here publicly in front of you to respect this amendment, that you will vote for the same. Please, think again, let's not leave everything behind and leave the case until that day for a vote that is truly completely devised by this Rules of Procedure that exists in this assembly, because no one knows who is voting for what amendment, only votes for those when the government accepts and when the ruling MPs for those who are opposition MPs have submitted, that they do not accept, and I believe that this is closer to us and that we are thinking a little more about each amendment again when it is a vote, because we would fix a lot of things in this country to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31503	Are any of the other authorised participants applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dragan Ljubojevic and Miomir Ilic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant of the amendment wants a word, Mr. Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the fifth or sixth time, no longer known, in the last year and a half as we have here on the agenda this law, i.e. the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, and this is proof of what policy in this area is governed by the Executive Authority in Serbia and what policy is governed by the Ministry of Justice. So, from case to case, when someone eventually exerts some pressure, when, God forbid, something happens, they change from situation to situation, if necessary, the provisions of the Criminal Law. The member for whom the SRS has proposed to delete is Article 2. The draft law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the practical position of Article 4 of the 183s of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the unauthorized use of copyright and other related rights. This previous two positions, i.e. the points, define what is the unauthorized use of copyright and other related rights, which is a punitive penalty for this crime, and this item 4 which is added is the subject of the criminal acts referred to in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article and the means for their execution will be seized, and the cases of criminal acts will be destroyed, in accordance with the law. The question arises whether it was necessary to carry out such a supplementation of the law, because we must leave something to the judicial branch of the government, or judges, that they assess whether or not the court ruling will be ordered, that is to say, to decide that the cases of criminal acts and the means for their executions will be destroyed. It's prescribed by Criminal Law and there's a possibility. We believe that judges should be left to assess when and in what cases the case of criminal acts should be destroyed, or the confiscation of the funds that have been committed. The fact is that piracy, i.e. counterfeiting videos, movies, sound carriers, has taken a major situation and has it at every turn, but it's not in the last month. It's a phenomenon that's been here for a few years. The question arises why at this point has reached out to such an amendment and supplemental proposal, in particular, undermining once again, which leaves the Criminal Law to the judge to make on the basis of his assessment of such a decision. The question arises what happens if someone in another area executes an unauthorized use of copyright and other related rights, or if they make a counterfeit, if someone forges cigarettes. It can't be applied analoguely in this, it's not exactly the same crime as this one here, but it's very similar. It's about falsifying, or unauthorized use of a license, or someone's name. Will the destruction of cigarettes be done automatically, and was it prescribed, and on the basis of which they were pompous a year and a few days ago, cigarettes burned in Sartide; was it then imposed, or was it prescribed, by law that these goods, which on the other hand were seized (that is, a criminal offence was committed), destroyed? Therefore, this member of the law, i.e. the draft law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, states the situation in the judiciary, and the relationship of the executive authority to the judges, or to the judiciary. You simply don't have (and I say you, because I mean executive power, even though the Executive Authority has no trust here) in the judicial branch of the government, and therefore such changes and additions must clearly oblige judges to make such decisions as is specified by this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31505	Does the other applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31506	This amendment refers to Article 183a - unauthorized use of copyright and other related rights. Here are a few examples of this crime, and what it would mean is the mandatory application of what is being added to this law. It is a criminal act, which, in general or in part, reproduces, shows, performs, presents, transfers, multiples, puts into circulation, broadcasts, rents, or otherwise uses, of course unauthorized, other people's authorial work. Someone else's author's work is a movie. Another person's author's work is all that's recorded on one CD. If the film is put on film and shown, and some television has not concluded a contract with the distributor and the author, it is shown on TV "Politika", TV PINK or on any television is the unauthorized use of other people's copyright. For this situation, the government is proposing that we accept it. It must go this way, and it would say about it, and by the logic of things would be done the following way -- the cases of criminal acts from this article and the means to execute them will be taken away. So, you take away that tape or that CD, where an unauthorized film is shown, but probably all of the television station's techniques. Maybe this is complicated to understand. I'll point to another example. If someone takes a CD and cuts several songs from different singers, and they don't have the author's consent and lets it go to their bar, the authorized official can come and say, "No, you're unauthorizedly using other people's copyright, and because you're using other people's copyright, you're taking away that CD, it's being taken away from you, the speakers, etc." That's how it's gonna be if we adopt what the government has suggested. And if it were to be left to the judge, then the judge would assess what should be taken away as a form of such measure, under what conditions, and certainly the case law in the field of copyright would take a more firm stance, for objective, impartial and always the same application of this provision of the law. In these two examples, I've tried to prove to you how pointless it is if this is how criminal policy is tightened. She's becoming tragic. Based on this member and this measure, all the TVs, all the radio stations, all the cafes in this country can be closed by tomorrow. I don't think the aim of the promoter is to close everything. It's probably a selective thing to close, which is that my own are living, and someone else's dying. That's about it, since it's counter-tolerance with us. But don't let us accept this. You can see that this government is cheating on us. They're gonna lay us cowardly eggs. We look ridiculous. Judges laugh at us when they read what the National Assembly voted for. Still hasn't calmed down that laugh in the D.A.'s office that the government is choosing the deputy public prosecutors. They were here to take an oath, and people got baptized and said, "Aman, what are you doing in this congregation, this never was, never will be." We're taking care of it. You'd better accept this now, than in two months under some pressure. I'm sure the DSS will report you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31507	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) This concludes the work in the afternoon, and the afternoon part of the session continues after the break at 15.00 hours by discussing the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted in the same text by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic and Toma Busetic submitted to the 3rd amendment, in the same text. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has requested that Article 3 of the proposed law on the additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia be deleted. We have had multiple cases, in this assembly of the National Assembly, that both Minister Batic and some other ministers suggest so-called. Lex specialises. If there was such a legal term for only one member of the law, it would be this Article 3 of the proposed law. Namely, what's this about? This Article 3 regulates what judges should do in case a certain criminal offence is found, how the perpetrators of the crime are sanctioned, and what is taken away from them. It is said that Article 186a of the existing law after Article 3 adds Article 4 which reads as follows: "The devices and means which have been committed by the criminal act referred to in Article 1, which are in the possession of the perpetrator, will be taken away." The question is, what does this apply to? It applies only to a case of computer equipment, or data contained in a computer. And by that, I wanted to tell you, the firm belief of all reasonable people in this country, and especially those workers yesterday in Kragujevac, Nis and hungry throughout Serbia, is that this decade will not be, especially under DOS authority, a decade where every employee will have a computer at home, a computer at work, a routine list of-mail, use the internet, etc. because the situation is that when people wake up in the morning, they think about where they have a hundred dinars to buy basic life supplies. It is clear to us why this member of the law came, completely unnecessary, when we have the provisions of the basic criminal law that we adopted a month ago, and where it is clearly stated what the holders of the judicial functions should do, that is, to take away all the funds that they used to the perpetrator of the crime. However, there is another dimension here, and this is a direct interference, in this way, legislative in the judicial branch of the government, because if, despite the existence of the basic criminal law, where all these provisions are contained, it is now merely that this member of the computer equipment, or data in the computer, really raises the question of what is wrong with other more drastic cases, which Mr Krasic said more yesterday in the principle debate. He only mentioned some. So someone can produce a certain kind of weapon, not take away those assets, not tools, not weapons that he produced against the law, but commits a crime. If some drug users, and many of them in Serbia today are lurking naive people, who are unfortunately ill or members of their families, produce some pharmaceutical illegal means, this is not stated in this article of the law. It is clear that there is a basic criminal law that requires judges to do what they need to do and that there has not been such an act and that judges are not afraid, many of them, of the upcoming lustration and of this legislative interference in the judicial branch of power, would do their job much more seriously. This is clear to us, in all these political arrests, as well as in inappropriate accounting through media means with people who have done nothing wrong; we have a case of our member, prominent Serbian Radical, Mr Momir Markovic, a member of the highest party body on the justice of God in prison for a month and a judicial council has extended his further detention without any reason. If the proposer wanted to introduce such members of the law, it would be best if you, Mrs. Micic, behave accordingly, as Vladan Batic, so that the perpetrators of our greatest work here in the Serbian Assembly, counterfeiting and counterfeiting in identification cards, are severely punished, taking away the opportunity to continue to participate in the work, because this manipulation continues... (President:I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... All the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31510	Does the People's MP Toma Bushetic apply for the word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Parliamentary Group has proposed that Article 3 be deleted as regards the delivery of the measures used for the execution of criminal offences or cases committed by criminal acts. We believe that these provisions are absolutely unnecessary, because in the existing law criminal provisions are already resolved, written, so that this part is kind of unnecessary. So, in the applicable law without supplementing those sanctions, they also provided for fines and prison sentences. Not even small, they refer to a time period of up to three years and to the amount of fines of up to 6,000 dinars. So, we believe that this matter is already regulated by the existing provisions of the Basic Criminal Code, which give the possibility to judicial authorities, means that judges, depending on the severity of the criminal offence and the threat of state interest, are given the measure of confiscation of cases used for the execution of criminal offences or of the case committed by the execution of criminal acts. The introduction of such provisions on mandatory confiscation of objects, these proposed amendments and additions, is simply not good. This balances the degree of danger of various crimes. So, in general, we think that these provisions are excessive, that they are unnecessary and, simply, even in conditions where the law is written like that, when standards are extremely good, it doesn't mean anything, because if applied selectively, they won't have their legal validity. For example, over all these years, we have had several such laws, the Extraprofit Act, and it mainly refers to former regime officials, to excess living space, while they are the most large, most important fish, which are now close to the authorities, remain intact. For example, the law on reporting assets to over 20 million dinars will also be selective, I'm almost confident. A few days ago, the deadline was extended from June 30th to October 31st. The meaning of all these laws is kind of devalued. What is important and what should be said at this point is that this issue, and in particular, is about this amendment, means unauthorized use of computer equipment or network, one quite side issue in relation to the possible issues that were to be found on the agenda of this assembly, and these are issues related to the economy, the social and the issues of the most significant state interest. Of course, we don't do that. The congregation is in some ways devising itself, since there is no TV transmission and the very theme discussed in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31512	Is anyone else applying for a word from the authorized participants in the debate? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31513	During previous changes and additions to the Criminal Code, probably and unconsciously, although we have warned, it happened that when it comes to computers and that technique, several crimes are envisaged, which are essentially a crime. The fundamental differences between the criminal act covered by Articles 186a and 186v are almost gone because it is about unauthorized use of computers and computer networks and causing adequate damage to the computer and the computer network. It is an unserious proposal that I would draw your attention to this article to point out that this supplement virtually builds on the new attitude of 4 which reads: "The devices and the funds that have been committed by the criminal act of the 1st member, which are in the possession of the perpetrator, will be taken away." That's where the difference was made. So not the items and assets used, regardless of whose property they are, are taken away, but only if they are in possession of the perpetrator of this crime. And how does this crime take place? If someone damages, hides, deletes, modifys, and otherwise makes unusable data or a program in one computer. So the means of committing this crime is some other computer equipment, or even a simple disk or a simple CD, and it doesn't even have to do that, but access to the Internet and access to another user's computer. The confiscation is related only to the perpetrator and if he is the owner of that equipment that has committed this crime, but we are today witnessing the fact that there are special companies dealing with the production of viruses and programs, anti-programmes, which are tasked with destroying other users' databases, so that as the perpetrator, an individual - a natural person, but he does so on behalf of his company, organization, or one system. And, here, on this case, you can see the really meaninglessness of mandatory pronunciation of this measure, because this measure is practically only about the perpetrator, it's about the perpetrator, not universally to the means of committing the crime. And the practice shows that, as a rule, these crimes are committed by an individual, as part of a single system, by a company that wants to enter a competitor's data to do harm to a competitor -- a natural person is the instrument of a legal person. That is why it is necessary to adopt this amendment and leave it to the judge who judges in a particular case to assess whether to take away objects, to which cases are taken away, when and under what conditions, because the possibility of executing this criminal act implies using different means: from the funds of the meaningless value of a floppy disk, to the entire computer system worth several thousand euros. It can best be assessed by a judge who has all the facts, has insight into all the circumstances under which a crime has been committed, and such a cemented commitment is absolutely the opposite, because it does not achieve the purpose for which this is intended as a crime. After all, all these crimes related to the use of computers are so badly set up in our Criminal Law that practically these provisions will be inadmissible in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31514	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milovan Radovanovic and Ljubomir Mucic submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted this amendment because we believe that this matter should be regulated in the Basic Criminal Code, which has been done, so that it is too much in the amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia proposed by the Government to the Assembly; because there is a lack of logic and senselessness and duplication of what already exists and is regulated by the Basic Criminal Law. Of course we of the SRS are trying to explain and convince you of the absurdity of this proposal. We know we're not going to make it, but at least we're going to tell you that this is the case with this bill and this article we've submitted the amendment to. It has already been said by the MPs of the SRS that the confiscation of the case as well as the funds for its execution is provided for in Article 69(3). The basic criminal law and this proposal, you are in fact introducing an imperative provision that the judge must, on each individual case, withdraw the case and the means to carry out the crime. Why is that? What exactly are you afraid of? In this particular case, Article 186v already provides for the existing Criminal Law in paragraph 1. - who makes a computer virus in order to enter into someone else's computer or computer network, and if there's any damage to that situation, they're going to be jailed for up to one year, or in another case up to three years. This law provides for (paragraph 3) that the funds committed by the criminal offences referred to in Article 1 are withdrawn. We suggest that this Article 4, which provides for the addition of Article 3 to the basic criminal law, is deleted because it is pointless. After all, good software with a certain quality knowledge and with an ordinary floppy can create a virus with or without damage, however, and you can't order a court, he will assess whether it's justified to take away such a single floppy from each individual case. However, what is what stands here? Whether or not, by calculating the previous provisions contained in Articles 2 and 3. Bill of laws, is your fear of something else? Do you perhaps fear that when you first display or first log in, you may immediately order the court to confiscate and confiscate all the disks and all the video tapes by means of a computer or a video tape from Schiller?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31516	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31517	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The draft law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and its amendment proposed what is most unpopular in submitting amendments to legislative acts, which is erasure. The SPS Parliamentary Group has tabled four amendments to which it has proposed eradicating members who have been proposed to supplement the Criminal Code, taking into account and what is written in the explanation. Our principled position is that through the amendments to this law, the measures for the confiscation of cases used for the execution of criminal acts or for the execution of criminal acts are not pronounced. For what reason? Well, these issues are already regulated by the provisions of Article 69, i.e. the occurrence of damage to the provisions of Articles 84 and 87. The criminal law and that is why we are in principle against this introduction and duplication of measures under one law. On the other hand, this amendment to Article 4 is, in fact, an amendment to Article 186v of that law, which regulates the issue of creating a virus on computer equipment or sending the virus to do damage to another person. In addition to the criminal provisions prescribed in this article, it means who makes the computer virus in order to enter into another person's computer or computer network, and is discovered before reference, will be fined or jailed for up to one year. Would it be any greater damage if someone paid the fine and took away his computer equipment, one computer, than the damage caused by a computer system? For example, if our computer system here in the Assembly is affected by a virus and, God forbid, in some cases, there is a determination of the actual number of MPs present in the O.R. at the time of the session in relation to the number of cards in the MPs' units. I think it's going to be a lot more damage on that side than it's going to be a shame for someone to take away his computer, his mouse, or some keyboard he's playing with there. Does this question solve the problem that has arisen and result in a crime? No, that man who makes the virus or does damage to another person is not forbidden to buy the next computer, to create the virus again, to go back into the offensive and do damage again. In my view, it would be better to prevent such a solution from dealing with this activity over the next period and thus allowing the destruction of other person’s computer systems and computer equipment. That's why I think that this measure that's supposed to be here, that the devices and means that the crimes committed by this member are being taken away from that person, that he has the right to immediately after that, if a conditional measure is imposed, buys a computer and continues to play to cause problems for others. I think that from this point of view, we should really leave it to the judges and the court practice to regulate these issues through the height of the damage caused by the introduction of the virus, or, in some ways, through the conditional measures of the convictions, that is to say, to bring a guilty verdict for those who have committed such a crime. I think that through the amendments to this law and the introduction of one of these practices, the legislative authority rules everything, and the judge will only be a mere and formal signator of a court ruling against those who have committed a crime, no matter how material or other damage is caused.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31518	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31519	This article of the bill practically creates greater damage than it protects something in the legal order. What exactly is this about? To understand me, I will use two concrete examples, of course, from a period when it was not a crime. The first example refers to the Republic Election Commission, September, October, November and December last year. You know, as members of the Republic Election Commission, which I was, we were in an awkward situation to look for a single polling list on a CD that was allegedly delivered by the State Department and local self-government. When the first article on the CD appeared on the video, it was seen that the author of the CD was the Ministry of the Interior. When asked whose CD this is, the virus immediately appeared and no one could see either that CD or run a search. For four hours, I've been trying to search a special computer in the National Assembly, which is similar to reading that CD. Except for the first on the polling list entered in the Municipality of Zvezda, this CD could not be opened. Not because of the lack of speed of that computer, but which later turns out to be some kind of virus. So the virus was created by someone at the Ministry of the Interior. You probably know that this unique electoral list never existed and that what was offered was just a surrogate. I'm taking the opportunity to point out, although my computer knowledge is very modest, that these viruses exist and someone is producing them to protect their program, to protect their data and to instill them in someone who's unauthorized to use that data and that computer. In this way, the practical attitude of Article 1, 186v, is pointless, because it is very difficult to explore the beings of this criminal act to find this element - with the intention of entering someone else's computer. Its qualified form is in attitude 2 that says - when it is caused even more damage. So I'll take another example. I was able to use some stenograms of the Republic Assembly. Of course, I'm allowed to go to the office with a floppy, to re-record this information that I'm interested in and try to open it at home on my computer. What happened? It happened that my computer got the virus, all the programs went, the damage was done, of course, all at a time when it wasn't a crime, I'm calling it back; but if it did happen today, then after what the government suggested, after reporting to the MUP that it happened to me, the MUP would come to the Republic Assembly and pick up all the computers and all the funds of the Republic Assembly where that virus was made, or where that virus came from that virus that came into my computer. I don't believe that the promoter had this in mind, but I'm telling the MPs that if something like this happens, and it's likely that it will happen, not only with the computers of the Republic Assembly but also with other state authorities, then by obliging the judge to make sure that all of our state authorities are left without computers and without all donations to computers. It is therefore good to accept this amendment and allow judges to decide when to apply this measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31520	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Stevan Kesejic and Marko Culibrk submitted. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31521	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it may seem that this amendment actually represents something insignificant for you, but for us Serbian Radical Party MPs in fact shows what authority you are, precisely because in Article 5 of the amendment and the addition of the Criminal Law, it speaks of the entry into force of this law, and it is said in Article 5 that this law takes effect the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So, we're talking about the addition of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia to the addition of the law of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, which was normally passed a month earlier, and in that law that we had here on the agenda a month ago, it was already said that this law would take effect the next day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. So what's the change and addition of this supplement? There's no change and no addition. It's a Serbian school, prescribed. However, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are not very concerned that you are illiterate, but we are concerned that you do not respect the Constitution, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the laws take effect on the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger", which would be normal and appropriate for any democratic authority, except for the one that is undemocratic. I could say that it could be different in this Article 5, that this law, let's say, could be retroactively applied. It can be applied on the day when Supreme Court President Sonja Brkic announced that arrests will continue, remain in prison, despite the suspension of detention and the law that has been abolished, and that a modus will be found to enforce it legally. So you can say in this article that the minister of justice will order when certain laws will be retroactively applied, when the next day, and when in three months, when you are no longer here. For these reasons, I believe that this member of the amendment and supplement law must be changed and adapted to what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides, which is that the law can be applied on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". All these changes and additions that are completely pointless, which Serbian Radical Party MPs have spoken of, were not necessary, that the existing provisions of the Criminal Law are complemented by being selectively applied, along with those insignificant things, and large things will continue to be promoted to you, based on your rights and opportunities, you will violate both the Constitution and all laws and you will pass laws within those deadlines as it suits you. But I hope that this will not last long and that you will soon realize that such devastating, pointless proposals will come, I can't say heads, but surely will lead to the loss of the power of the MPs DOS-manlia who smile, and in fact it is a violation of the Constitution that they strongly support. That's why we point to this member, so our generations can remember what kind of government they had from 2000 to autumn 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31522	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31523	And with this amendment, we try to draw attention to the congregation's majority that these provisions of the bill, which are prescribed that the law enters into force the next day from the day of publication, are unconstitutional, and we are trying to give you an indication that there is a provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that laws and other regulations or general acts enter into force at the earliest eighth day of publication. It's a standard. Why the standard? Because it is estimated that this eight-day deadline is appropriate for citizens to get to know the law and to understand what their rights are, their obligations, which are their responsibilities, so that in the event of a procedure they do not come into a situation to call that they did not know that there was a law, that the law was published, that they would not be in some kind of legal error. Unfortunately, we have a situation where our law professors are in a legal error, so if a citizen was invited not even to know that something was regulated by law, then it probably deserves some justification. Therefore, there is no particularly justified reason, when it comes to supplementing the Criminal Code, nor has the Proposer cited it, which is the reason why it requires this law to come into force so quickly without citizens being able to find out what has changed in the Criminal Law. That the proposer, in which case, stated in the light of this law - so many criminal proceedings are being conducted, so it is necessary to oblige the judges to make mandatory use of copyrights, etc., so that we accept something, that there is a particularly justified reason for this law to enter into force before the usual period of entry into force. However, the promoter did not find it appropriate, except for one stereotype sentence, to state no serious and reasonable reason why it is necessary for this law to enter into force practically the next day of publication. Who knows which way we warn it to go practically into an unconstitutional practice of this National Assembly? We can't accept everything the government proposes, and we don't have to accept. The National Assembly is a greater guardian of the Constitution than the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You see, today, the Republic Constitutional Court has made a decision and found that the Government of the Republic of Serbia Regulation that approved the opening of those files is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Two years ago, it took the Constitutional Court to decide; and then it was unconstitutional, two years ago, but now it has decided, following the lustration and that additional law, to implement the lustration, to regulate the issue of opening the file. You see the abuse of power, executive, court, and this legislative one. The kind of abuse is that the law takes effect the next day from the day of publication, and there is a clear standard in the Constitution that obliges it to be the earliest of the eighth day since the day of publication. Take care, adopt this amendment, or get something, or lose something, but we demonstrate that we care about constitutionality and legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31524	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? National MP Marko Culibrk, applicant for the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31525	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. With this amendment, we propose that Article 5 be deleted, because we consider it unconstitutional. It is already becoming a practice, that all laws enter into force the next day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger", even though it is a member of 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very explicit, that all laws will enter into force on the eighth day of the day of the publication in "The Official Messenger". I don't see why it's an emergency procedure, so much so that this law starts to apply the next day of publication, only if it doesn't want to get the impression that the legislator is doing something very important, or that this is such an important matter that it's really necessary to break the Constitution and start the law to apply from the next day of publication in the Official Messenger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31526	Thank you. Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative is not present to give the final word, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Insufficient Behavior in the Porcelains (Speciality) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nebojsa Leković, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Slobodan Janjic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Dragan Ljubojević, Dragan Čulić, Dragomir Plužarić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Branislav Blažić, Petar Jojić, Milorad Mirčić, Stevan Kesevljić, Milovan Radovanović, Srboljub Živanovic, Lama Marjanski, Ljubomir Kragović, together Petar Petrović, Miloš Lukić and Adam Urošević, together Vladimir Dobrosavlić, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašić, together Toma Bušetić, Momir Radoj Radoić and Srejten Mitrović, together Milan Janković and Radović Rado Javić, Radar Žažić, Radar Žalić and Radar Jubić, Radović, Radovrić and Radar Radović together, Radović, Radović, Radović and Radović. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment proposing the erasure of the last position in Article 8. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principled search under which the draft law on the prevention of violence and misbehavior at sports events has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, and I have received the opinion of the Security Committee, the Government's opinion on its amendment has not yet been made, so I don't even know why the Government has not accepted my amendment; it is now that they share the amendments, or the Government's views on the law that has now been concluded. I think congregation services could do their job a little more seriously. In my amendment, I asked for the organizer, this law to be given certain powers, to be given to him in Article 1. There has often been controversy in this assembly, and even from the president of the National Assembly, that MPs should not only have rights but also obligations, meaning powers and duties. I don't see why we shouldn't define it in one of these laws. I'm saying I don't know why the government rejected this amendment, because it doesn't essentially change the concept and the bill, which is why the law is in discussion and procedure, but in the law we create one consistency from its first to the last member. This obligation or duty, you were witnesses to see what consequences exist if it is not legally regulated, at this recently held water polo game when the organizer had the authority to release different groups of fans from two opposite cheerleading camps on two different entrances, but he did not do so, because he was not obliged and not obliged. He had the authority to set up a protective fence at the place where a sporting event was held - he did not do it again, because according to their legal regulations he was not obliged. When there was rampage, instead of harming the audience and jeopardizing the health of participants of the event itself, it was not done. These Slovenes are constantly representing themselves as some country that is untouchable and which is ahead of us, and now we have the opportunity to finally make a law that is better at all times than their legal regulations. The Security Committee has refused, this great police officer of the Sutanovac, and it is fortunate that he is not dependent on security in this country; I say I do not yet know the reasons. Otherwise, duty, that's the part where I wanted the law to be consistent from the first to the last member, organizers' duties are often mentioned in Article 8, 9, 11, 12, in Article 13, even twice and in Article 15. That's why the law itself has consistency from the first to the last member, that it has one continuity. This amendment was rejected for one reason only, as the amendment was submitted by the SRS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31528	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31529	With this amendment, the SRS tried to draw attention to the proponent that we are in an area called human rights. We are talking about the freedoms and rights of citizens to gather, to attend public gatherings and to participate in these public gatherings. Whenever there is talk of freedoms and human rights, there is usually one provision of our Constitution that says that these freedoms, rights and responsibilities are limited by the same freedoms, rights and duties of other citizens. What happens between them is a competent state body. As a rule, the competent state authority usually appears as the perpetrator of something we can call abuse or violation of human rights. With this amendment, we wanted to point out precisely that this law regulates a narrowed section in the area of citizens' gathering, but we want to point out the powers and responsibilities of the competent state authorities, so that not overstepping those powers and duties comes to that other forbidden zone, which is the abuse of freedom and human rights. This is the opening amendment, as regards the SRS, has been consistently forwarded through all the amendments that we have addressed to the other members of the bill, where we are trying to clearly distinguish what prevention measures are, what are the measures of repression. Some times the need arises to maintain the necessary peace through repression measures, and to preserve the freedom and rights of man, other persons, and other persons. Unfortunately, we have now received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and if you could read the explanation of why this amendment is not accepted, you have seen that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not even understood the amendment. They say the words "obligation" and "debt" are synonyms for one and the same, but that doesn't quite matter. The word "obligation" in this article refers to the organizer, and what we are asking by amendment to register as a duty concerns the competent state authorities. That's how we communicate, like they're deaf phones, we're about grandmothers, and they're about frogs, and that's how it is in this National Assembly. So, we are to clearly distinguish what would be the duties, obligations and rights of the organizers of the event, and what the jurisdiction of the state authorities, because, believe me, this law for this form, as the government has proposed, has practically no constitutional basis and it would be much better if this bill were withdrawn and agreed with some existing solutions. We have the Law on citizens gathering, we have the Law on Public Order and Peace, we have the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia. I must say, although there are no of these socio-sport workers, since it is now a transitional period, we must bear in mind that sports associations and alliances have their binding rules which also concern the appropriate measures to ensure the normal conduct of competitions and the safety of citizens attending competitions. Unfortunately, this law treats something that is only top-notch sport, so it would be, but according to some provisions, it applies to the village leagues, where it is practically inconclusive of this law, because if it insists on the provisions of this law in some country football league, practically, all football clubs would be immediately banned under this law, because they can't theoretically get into a situation and in this position to meet the required conditions as a minimum here. So I suggest that this amendment be accepted and that as much as possible make this bill normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31530	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Lekovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Committee on Defence and Security adopted this amendment, with the legal technical regulation proposed by that committee, with which the applicant agreed. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word on this amendment? The applicant for the amendment is not present. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Toma Busetic, Momir Radoicic and Sreten Mitrovica together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is there an application for a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a group of SPS MPs have proposed an amendment relating to Article 2 paragraph 3 that the words "interval from one hour before the start (games or sports events) be replaced by the words "interval of three hours before the start" (games or sports events). It's about, of course, the time of the sports event. It means first of all what is thought to be the maintenance time. This basic proposal says that it is a time interval from one hour before the start of the game or a sports event until one hour after its completion. So we've expanded this, that the facto event organizer, sports events, any other sports performances bear responsibility much earlier, three hours before the start of those sports events. What's the most important thing here? Most importantly, the law on preventing violence and misbehavior primarily refers to major sports events, big games. Now maybe Nebojsa Lekovic, because he was a promoter, or government, thought there were no more big matches in Serbia, and of course he's only partly right since DOS came to power and football has been at our lowest branches. But, of course, since DOS will leave power very soon, then football will recover, so we'll have big games again. There will be both Real and Barcelona, and big football teams, Germany, the Netherlands, where there will be a large number of fans. We all know very well when 100,000 fans are present that it is necessary for the organization itself to prepare with significantly greater time. Fans don't enter an hour before the game, they go in three or four hours. I think this amendment of ours is absolutely with a lot of meaning. I think the Proposer will accept this amendment of ours. On the other hand, when we talk about these little games, why do SPS MPs insist that the responsibility be borne three hours before the start of the game? In one league game, I think the second or third leagues, out there in my neighborhood, in Svilinc and Despotovac, took place two hours before the home team fans brought a coffin and prepared judges. They said if you don't cheer and judge in our favor, you'll end up here. Of course, the organizer tried to exorcise them, but it wasn't worth it. The fans surrounded the coffin. The point is that. It's been an hour. Or, on the other hand, if we're talking about these big sports events, we have big games in small stadiums. Here in Kranje a few days ago, only a few thousand viewers were there. There was a general attack on the lynch, not just our fans, but the most important officials present. But fortunately they immediately directed a demarch and a strong protest to the Slovenian government, and to the Croatian government and asked for an apology from them. Behind that, there has been a prevention of every incident in Serbia. But since they didn't send it, then there was an explosion and an attack on the Croatian Embassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31532	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Petar Petrovic, Milos Lukic and Adam Urosevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that this amendment is legally possible. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31533	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a moment I was in doubt, of course immediately after receiving the report from the Defence and Security Committee, in which they accept Mr Lekovic's amendment to Article 2, which suggests that 90 minutes before and 90 minutes after the event was held. However, the desire to actively participate in the development of this legal project has prevailed and let me explain to you the amendment of the Serbian Unity Party. Indecent and hooliganic behaviour of participants not only at sports events, but also at other events, including concerts of various groups and other public gatherings, reflects dissatisfaction and frustration and works of unsustained destruction or destruction that every person of us carries within him. But that's a question that sociologists and psychology experts need to deal with. The bill's proposal is practically an attempt to make the organizers and other participants of sports events and criminal measures to make this misbehaves. To Article 2. The bill, which defines what sports events are and the time of sports events, the Soviet Parliament's group has tabled an amendment to add a new position 4 after item 3, which would read: "The time of the sports event of increased risk, in the sense of this law, is the time interval of two hours before the start and after the completion of the sports event". We, in the Party of Serbian Unity, handled ourselves primarily in our experiences, because most of us are former athletes, now as successful sports workers and organizers. As a result, I note that when these events are maintained, where there is an increased risk of certain incidents, maybe two or three hours before the start of the event fans come in a variety of coloured and diversely oriented. Therefore, this amendment should be adopted, especially as it applies only to those competitions that qualify as competitions with increased risk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31534	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Nebojsa Lekovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Committee on Defence and Security has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do any of the authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Jankovic and Rade Bajic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Presidency, the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to amend and read in Article 3(1): "The organizer of sports events is required to ensure the safe maintenance of the sports event in co-operation with the MUP and to take all measures that warn and prevent the outbreak of violence and misbehave of viewers." The European Convention on Violence and Misbehaving of Watchers in Sports Events, which our country ratified on 26 July 1990, requires the state authorities to ensure the use of adequate public order funds against riots and misbehaves both in the immediate vicinity and within the stadium and on the approach roads used by viewers. We hope you will respect the European Convention and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31536	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31537	The SRS considers that Article 3 should be recast. The bill, because it is essentially a fundamental member of this law that needs to be defined for what who is responsible, how responsible and who is responsible for what. We suggest that Article 3 of the Law reads: "The organizer is responsible for maintaining order at the sports event. The activities of protecting the personal and property security of participants in the sports event and other citizens, maintaining public order and peace, security of traffic and other jobs related to the provision of the sports event are carried out by the MUP." A new third position would read: "When a sports alliance, a sports society, a sports organisation, i.e. a club trusts the organisation of a sports event or doing certain jobs in the organisation of a sporting event to another legal or physical person, it is required to supervise the implementation of the measures set out in this law." In this way, it is clearly defined what the organizer is responsible for, what is the duty of the Ministry of the Interior and what in the situation where the organisation of some sports events is conducted by a third party, means not a club, not a host, but a third party, and we have a common situation when it comes to these sports halls such as "Pionir" and others, which are not owned by a club, but is owned by a public company and it does some services in favour of the organizer of the event; then the organiser is obliged only to carry out supervision, because by definition and by the activity of the company that manages the sport facility, it should be responsible for order and security. Of course, the government couldn't accept this, because in the whole concept of this law there's one confusion and a dose of inaccuracy that's about to complete responsibility, and even for public order and peace on the sport field, transfer the organizer, and then, believe me, the police are able to determine whether the unrest is going to happen at one game or not. That's our reality. Everyone's avoiding this assembly pay phone to talk about this problem. We don't have a hooligan problem, as one represents. What happens at our games, it's a sociological phenomenon, it has nothing to do with physical culture or sports, but it has to do with professional sports and business. Such events and such riots are needed by this sport to remain in the spotlight of interest. Look at these sides of the league, NBA etc. That event, the atmosphere before and during the game and after the game, it's a big circus where they turn and launder big money. That's our reality. Of course, the problem with the legislator is that he set the situation up, trying to be objective, and on a football field, which was a field a few years ago, and where the children from a village built a club where amateurs play and have some mutual rivalry. This law is abnormal there, inapplicable. Basically, everything we call hooliganism depends on the MUP. Evidence of that, here's a few examples. 20 and 30 years ago, football games were played. Who were the viewers? They were all citizens of Serbia -- both young and old, and pensioners, and women and children -- and there were no riots. People came, cheered, there was rivalry between fans of one club and another. The highest degree of misbehaving was that the neighbors of the winning cartoon at the door, if the favorite club had lost last weekend. How come now it's become a sociological problem, so here we're hearing identification theories, what is offered to the young, what is offered to these, what is offered to those. The sociological problem became the moment someone in the MUP concluded he could manipulate fans, fans' clubs. The reflection of this manipulation is that every game is a possible disturbance. If the MUP has concluded that there should be no unrest at a game, there will be no unrest. What has the MUP used so far to contain the unrest? Criminal law and the Law of Public Order and Peace. That's what exists today. Why isn't he applying it? It doesn't apply. There needs to be a property transformation in some of our big clubs that they think are big drives, which can sell quite a lot of players abroad and make money. There's the only money in sports now, in this professional sport, from the trafficking of people who agree to be goods, but that's our inevitableness. It has nothing to do with physical culture. We pay attention to something that the MUP can solve and regulate at any time. Of course, he has an obligation. Every sports event is also a public event and it is registered, as we have reported the rallys, the stands, reports, there is some security, a minimum order that is guaranteed. Our Home Secretary has concluded that he needs to manipulate these children and create the right climate in society and say that they are sociological problems, they are hooligans, they need to be prevented, and now they have to tie up sports clubs for fans' clubs to bear responsibility. Sports clubs with their fans' clubs almost have nothing to do with it. A much bigger relationship has national security which instructs them as necessary, when there is an incident to be made. There's what BIA is, so if there's no national security, there's a BIA that activates it if necessary. What you call hooligans, that's those "parties", "grobars", they say in the jargon -- the only thing we recognize about the Special Forces is a good fight with them, and with these traffickers and officers there was no fight. So we're talking about this sociological phenomenon that people come to empty out. Who lets them be empty like that? Police. He's also training to stay out of shape, and all of this can be prevented, to stop, to keep our sports facilities from being these real sports arenas. Some new sports also contribute to this, and when you break this law a little bit, you see that this is the adrenaline law. It's a law on what can trigger and what emotions and what motivates man to be a beast, because some sports have long overcome some chivalrous and some competition, have already become new gladiatorial games. Of course, this congregation isn't even thinking about preventing these new gladiatorial games, but we want to train, of course, some strictness and show, thanks to this law, of course, since it's been passed, then it's cleared with hooligans. It will not be cleared with hooligans because if this law were strictly applied, as proposed, there would be no more football leagues or any other sports leagues at the lower level of the competition, and as far as this top and professional sport is concerned, the application of this law would mean that our football games are played in the opera or in the National Theatre, without an audience, because everything can be misbehaving. Absolutely anything can be misbehaving. And this is a sociological problem, as people are empty, filled with anger, dissatisfaction, in conditions where nothing is offered like a healthier alternative; then we make hooligans out of fans, make meat to exercise something, and that was an example for you a few days ago of Mr. Sljivancan's arrest. People protested peacefully with their presence for something and the moment the national security said they needed to throw away stones to provoke...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31538	National MP, you have received a warning of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and for the content of your speech on amendments. Nine minutes and 45 seconds don't talk about the amendment, I thank you and ask you to talk about the content of the amendment next time. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Nebojsa Jovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31539	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have submitted the amendment with my colleague Nebojsa Jovic to Article 4. A bill of this law. This article draws closer to the regulation of which acts and procedures are violence, misbehaving at sports events, and among other things in point 3 of Article 1 of this article, it is said that under violence and misbehavior at sports events, "the throwing on a sports field or at a theatre of objects that can endanger life, physical integrity of the person or property". The amendment proposes that this point 3 be complemented in the sense that, under violence and misbehavior at sports events, it is also considered to be thrown on sports grounds or in theatres and other objects that interfere with the normal course of sports events. So it's not just throwing objects that can endanger physical integrity or property. In order to explain the proposal, let us take an example of throwing on sports grounds or at the theater of tomatoes, eggs, and the like. It doesn't matter if these objects are thrown out of the theater or out of the sports facility. By throwing them on a sports field or in a theater, unlike throwing stones, where the integrity of the face can be compromised, the face is injured, the property is damaged, but the normal course of sports events is not compromised, although the physical integrity of the face and property is not compromised. It should be borne in mind that what is proposed by the amendment is not covered by point 6) as explained by the Government in its reasons for not accepting the amendments, nor at point 10 of this article, where it is said about entering into a sports facility and other objects and resources that may interfere with the course of the sport event. So, the amendment defines that violence and misbehavior at sports events represent throwing on the sports field and theatre and other objects, as I have brought forward, and throwing them out of the theater itself, both outside the theater and outside the theater, and not just bringing them into the field, and someone outside the playground can throw these objects that won't hurt their faces or hurt their faces, but interfere with the sports game. I think there are clear reasons why the amendment should be accepted. This will help significantly reduce violence and misbehavior on sports grounds, and there is indeed room for the amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31540	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Do you want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, let me first ask you - where is Dusan Mihajlovic, who was supposed to come here and explain to the MPs this bill. He probably went to extort evidence, and if he wasn't there, it would be normal for his followers, Nebojsa Lekovic, who, by the way, never ran for the football. Believe me, I'm from Kragujevac, he's moved to the city where I live, and now there's someone who does the selection and who heads the FSS and tells us about how fans are supposed to be at sports events. Unlike the gentlemen mentioned, this first minister, yet, who was not allowed to come here for a variety of reasons and Lekovic, who had nothing to do with sports, I have visited sports events since my earliest youth (it is not appropriate to say that I am a fan of a football club) and he wanted to visit many international sports events, games so-called. high risk, both in a country where most people are called hooligans, which is England, and in many others across Europe, and especially during the time of the former Yugoslavia where these high-risk matches were played by clubs from Serbia and the Ustasha Croatian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31542	People's MPs, please bring your sports preferences and travels into contact with the content of the amendments. Two minutes and not a single word about the content of the amendment, and I give you a warning and ask you to remember the contents of your amendment and to present it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31543	I know you're a terrible fisherman, you've said it yourself several times, but allow me as an expert on these issues to explain to the MPs why this amendment to the Serbian Radical Party should be accepted. The SRS amendment the government refused should be accepted because of what is necessary, as I suggested, to delete point 4) which says it is not allowed to cause hatred or impatience that can lead to the physical conflict of participants, and point 11) which says - unauthorized entry into part of a sports object theatre intended for opposing fans. We believe that it is inappropriate for the current government to be accounted for by fan groups in a situation where the central sports manifestations are plentiful against your friends from the Ustasha Croatian state, The Hague tribunal, Carla del Ponte, when the professions listed under point 4 are as a cause of hatred of professions for Serbian heroes, the Chetnik Duke of Vojislav Seselj, Radovan Karadzic, Ratko Mladic and other Serbian heroes, and when it is quite evident that the transparencys that appear at the games are also directly irritated by the current government, and Zoran Zivkovic, and especially Vesic, who is trying to control a group of fans, but is also getting out of control. Therefore, we believe that this law is directly directed against young people highly nationalally aware, extremely endangered under this regime, who know that such a policy of the current government cannot bring neither the state nor the people anywhere. The SRS is the brightest example of what is called the excellent organisation of public gatherings, because since 1990, from the Serbian Chetnik Movement to the present day, no incident has occurred at our meetings, unlike the meetings organised by the current DOS government, when people have lost their lives, and your former or possibly future coalition partners, who have also done so. We believe that such a rigorous law is directed primarily against this category of young people, whom these days Mihajlovic's inspectors at the deaf time of night call by telephone, these are the leaders of a particular cheerleading group, and ask them to make known who of their friends were in front of the house of another Serbian hero, Major Sljivancan, and to stand in his defense. We believe that this will come back to you as a boomerang, because no matter how many you ban, thousands and thousands of young people, the elderly and all those who are in Serbia, who have the heart to call against the current authorities, will still call the worst names on the scene those who are directly responsible for our fate and who have a negative impact on all phenomena today in society. Therefore, such a law, certain provisions of its law, as is this point 7) on entering the field, so now imagine a 15-year-old child who, in general euphoria due to the victory of the club, enters the lawn over a game, exists only in England and nowhere else. We believe that in this way you will not only lose, but through the vote of these Dracon provisions you will only speed up yours, however more and more certain, fall from power, regardless of what you, as well as most MPs from the rest of the DOS, this matter is absolutely foreign.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31544	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has been issued by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31545	We ask only this amendment to erase from this article what or nothing means or in free translation and interpretation can mean anything and everything. So we're asking for point 4 to be deleted and point 11 to be deleted. Point 4) says that under violence and misbehavior, so it is said specifically, so that is special and highlights, the cause of hatred or impatience that can lead to the physical conflicts of participants. Participants are also athletes, fans, organizers, management, and even police. The challenge of hate can be done by actions, by doing, by inaction, by verbally showing transparents in other ways. In one provision, (I think 23.) It's even listed what it can mean to misbehave. I have to tell you, at these sports events, there are usually two groups of people who have been confronted by cheerleaders. Some cheer for hosts, and others cheer for guests, and if anyone has ever been on a Star and Partizan derby in any sport, you could hear very recognizable hymns and cheerleader songs that essentially cause hatred for the opponent. Probably no "deal" would have gone to the game if he couldn't sing that song, as it ended, "your father's a cop." It's similar with Partizan fans. It comes out practically that this hatred is present at the beginning, and it can lead to physical conflict. If he's gonna bring it to the police, it's up to the police. Who's the one who's going to judge? Someone who is not qualified to do so needs to be evaluated, and it even gets into something about taste, feeling, and it's not discussed as a rule. I'll take another example. We recently had opportunities to watch a water polo meeting between Serbia and Montenegro and Croatia. You see, one minister jumped into the pool and by all criteria, it should be some kind of misbehaving. If that had happened with us, it'd probably have been inappropriate behavior. I don't think that's inappropriate behavior. Why? There were two thousand and some Ustashas who apparently sang recognizable songs, how all Serbs should be killed, and that minister as president of the most civil party, who was operated on by every national feeling, simply his body began to appear as something that reacted as a great Serb and he could not verbally answer them, but showed his nationality by his gesture. That's what happens in sports, when you play that heart. So, I don't attack this man, although I'm uncomfortable with what he's been looking for there, and he doesn't know how to swim a man, and he doesn't have room for politicians at those sports events. He was another minister, who said - Serbia. If he had said that here at the game, he would have been considered a great Serbian nationalist, who should be a chandelier, and he worked there. Of course, I don't criticize him for that, especially not for protecting fans, journalists and those of our participants, those who lit their cheeks, but when the analytical types appear as protectors of national interests, then we get sick. Can Dusan Mihajlovic assess whether this is inappropriate or not? He can't. Be safe. Furthermore, what the promoters have set us in this law is point 11) which says - unauthorized entry into part of the sports object theater that is intended for opposing fans. Why the opponents? I guess - the guest fans. Why are we installing a fight and an opponent right now? Is it possible this law was written by a man who only cheers for one club?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31546	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radeta. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31547	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Comic, I am talking about an amendment to article 6 of the proposed law. Article 6 is part of a law that is completely inapplicable in practice and, of course, that fact is not the reason why Dusan Mihajlovic is not present at this session today. He is not here today because he is obviously afraid to come before the MPs, and it is even more obvious that he has definitely cracked the pumpkin in the Serbian government and that the Serbian government and its members have failed to force Dusan Mihajlovic to come here, where he belongs today, to hear what the MPs think of this, otherwise very bad bill. We in the Serbian Radical Party think that this law is completely wrong, because it is trying to free itself from its regular obligations through this law, unless it concludes a contract with sports organisations, where, of course, Serbia's budget will earn good money, and whoever concludes those contracts is probably a solid commission. In that sense, this amendment to Article 6 of the Law, where I have proposed, or from the Serbian Radical Party, that the article reads: "The Ministry of Interior is overseeing the fulfilment of the obligations of the sports organizers set out in this law." Although it seems to be similar to this proposed text, it is a very different approach indeed. The government's explanation for why no amendment is accepted is contrary to the essence of this law. The government, among other things, says - given that the content of the law is not only made up of the obligations of the organizers of sports events, etc., and in fact the content of the law is just such that only the obligations of the organizers of sports events are made. The Ministry of the Interior is of course by law, by the logic of things, by so far, possibly future practice, the only one in charge of preserving public order and peace in every place and in every situation and beyond, is that the Ministry of Interior is making some kind of contract, not to say the deals, who it will protect, who it will not protect. Simply, this whole law is precisely this character, that the organizer of sports events bears complete responsibility, which is simply impossible, and without the participation of the ministry, without the assistance of the police officers of the Ministry of the Interior, it is impossible to apply this law. How do you think you can prevent some incident that happens at a game, entering a sports field; you say the organizer's representative will notify the police, until he informs the police and by the time the police arrive, the train passes. The police were there for you that night in Belgrade, in front of the Croatian embassy, so for the first time in a while they acted as the people expected them to, they got away nice people, that those young boys returned, at least in that way, what the Croats did to our team in Kranj. For that reason and for other reasons mentioned, I think it is indeed justified, however, in line with the government's argument, it would be logical and it would be normal for this amendment to be accepted... (President: five minutes. If Dusan Mihajlovic were there, he might accept it, and since he did not, I suggest it to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31548	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31549	In her opinion, which we just received, the government has made it clear to us how it feels about this bill. You see, they don't even accept this clarification and precise determination, which the Ministry of the Interior would be responsible for. So, our government says -- we don't want clean bills, but we just want so blurry, so vaguely, that in every situation, the police, during the intervention, can justify themselves or apply any measure, or even those measures that represent over-the-counter and abuse of official duty. They consciously go to this formulation - control of implementation. You believe that 70% of the provisions of the law apply to the Ministry of the Interior, which needs to be implemented. They prefer the Ministry of the Interior to exercise control over themselves and others, rather than when we are proposing, by amendment, that the Ministry of the Interior exercise that control over the fulfilment of obligations under this law, by organisers and other participants, who have an obligation under this law. This attitude of the government tells us, in fact, why this law is passed, that it will not regulate anything, especially not to regulate what are the professional, most elite clubs in this country are placed in the same basket with a minor school event and school competition. He does not want the government, or the Ministry of Interior, to bear full responsibility. I don't know who the organizer of the event, who reported it neatly, for the safety of the participants, peace, security, personal property, is the only responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, because it is the only and only responsibility to apply the measures, because no measure of physical coercion can be applied by the organiser or by his directorial service. His director's office can direct the viewers, give some help, rip the cards, but to apply physical coercion can't. And in some sports games without physical coercion, it's impossible to complete the competition. See what messages the Government of the Republic of Serbia sends us. So we need the law for the law. It's probably done this way, as the government suggests, because some clubs are known as party, but there's a big mental problem, which is not clear to fans yet, so "parties" scandal even though someone else boasts that they're at the head of that club and they're running that club. That is why it is necessary for the Ministry of Interior to remain this formulation of the bill, not to be resented by whoever owns the club, who organizes the game, but this form of article 6 means everything and nothing; what we propose is something precise and means responsibility, and the Ministry of Interior is running away from responsibility, because it knows very well - it is the only thing responsible for all the riots that are happening in sports competitions. No one else can be responsible. There's no hooligan that can break. You saw for yourself, not 2,500 fans wrong, but the Slovenian police who made it happen. Let's not let that happen with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31550	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 7 to which the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The bearer's not here. Do any of the other authorized participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to the same article 7 was jointly submitted by MPs Rada Bajic and Rajko Baralic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On behalf of the applicants, the word for the amendment has the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31551	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with counterpart Radet Bajic, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 to delete this member's point 2). In order to prevent and reduce the risk of the outbreak of violent and misbehaving by viewers, sports alliances, sports associations, sports organisations - clubs are required to co-operate with their fans' clubs and initiate the redistribution of directors from their ranks, in order to assist sports organizers in maintaining order. We believe that this is the introduction of a third entity and thus cannot be shared with responsibility for risk reduction or for a risk-free manifestation. In addition, experience suggests that clubs work exactly the opposite of what the law says. Fan clubs, unfortunately, are put on an antagonism that is driven by the clubs themselves and by the management themselves and are considered to be effective or faithful enough to their clubs if this amount of antagonism is, not to use any more difficult qualifications, according to the opposite camp, larger and harder. We talked about it here this morning. I believe that it is not sustainable to take responsibility for the organizers of the competition this way because we objectively do not only have a fan problem here, the problem of clubs, but we have sports facilities or sports facilities in the stands of fans, or individuals who have their own attitude towards sports competition, to clubs, to judges, to journalists, etc. Unfortunately, no one is present on behalf of the promoter, and I would like to point out once again the continuing procedural problem that exists here - is it possible that the proponent, therefore, the competent minister in advance knows that he will not accept any amendment from any of the opposition parties, regardless of the level of argument offered here. What colleagues say here is such a quality that the amendment can be accepted, and there is no one here to accept the amendment. It is inadmissible, you can be angry, you can say that sooner or later, you want to talk about yourself as a coalition that implements parliamentaryism, democracy and democratic parliamentary procedure; you want it to be so, and I want it to be so, but it's not like that here. If one minister, for reasons that are understandable to him, comes out and ceases to answer for what he is here for, and the other doesn't come to parliament at all when it comes to three laws, at the same time, then it doesn't say anything about the MPs of the opposition, their intentions and what they should do, it talks about the authorities themselves and the violation of the procedure. I think we're going into one extremely serious problem that we can't function and that day by day we allow one way or another, which is done by the ruling majority, the supremacy of the executive authority over the other branches of government to increase, with intransparentity. So, I want to remind you that 15 cameras were on the Security Committee without any cameras in Serbia's parliament. At the very least, it's reckless and it's a shame. Who are we texting? We refer to potential or current fans, we should act on people preventively, we should warn serious arguments to the citizens of Serbia not to commit violations at sports events. Unfortunately, we do it in an unmistakable way, we are not in communication with Serbian citizens and that is a fundamental problem. Please accept the amendment I have submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31552	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The applicant for the amendment isn't here. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31553	With this amendment, we follow the previous amendments consistently, so we suggest that from Article 7, which refers to preventive measures and what is the responsibility of the organisers, they throw out some things that are not the place to prevent. First, point 2) which says "provide co-operation with their fans' clubs and initiate the redistribution from their ranks to help organizers of sports events in maintaining order". That would mean that the sports club should set up a few faces in the circle of its fans and they would be special directors and in such a way that the club would probably take over, I mean the fan club, some responsibility. We make fans' clubs practically one institution, or we want an institution to be something that can't be an institution. Of course, it will not bring any results, but will allow these fans' directors to be a buffer zone that will bring in unauthorized funds and other things that will cause improper behavior. We suggest that it be erased and that it be not the obligation of the organizers of the sports event, or sports club. We also propose to delete point 4 which practically obliges clubs to coordinate activities with their fans' clubs when going to sports events, etc. That would mean that one sports club should co-operate with all the clubs on the inside, and how do they go to some game that's played 300 or 400 kilometers away from where that club is? Of course, the club needs to take some responsibility, and he's not even able to find out if he has fans; for these clubs, it's a big question who made them, because, believe me, someone built those fans' clubs to sell passports, visas and everything else when it comes to visiting abroad. Of course, the police did it again, no one else. What do we propose as the third in this amendment? To specify point 5), it is the obligation of a sports club to regulate sports rules from its jurisdiction what is what is high-risk, and we say - high risk, we believe that in this way we should point out that clubs have to establish on the basis of objective criteria when there is a greater risk at a game rather than that it is related to an opposing club, name, etc. We had a situation a few months ago in an absolutely insignificant game, in front of a small number of fans, and it wasn't high-risk, it was Club Rad, a tragic case of those present viewers and in the presence of police. What's risky when it's risky? It is risky under certain conditions and when circumstances are concluded, because if this formulation remains, then it would mean that only those matches between the first and the second are at risk on the table, between the first and the fifth, and you see for yourself, that the matches become risky even when it comes to those between the first and the last on the table. Not to mention the village leagues, the lower leagues, because there are all high-risk games; by the rule, by these matches there are buffets, people drink beer and other alcohol, cheer and come to empty, to direct some messages to both opponents and judges and to those who have prescribed the rules, and thus to be empty. It is necessary to say very precisely, if there is a desire to regulate this area, it takes this amount of precision to know who is responsible for what and when responsible, because what the Government has proposed to us by this bill is all stretching, fluidly, can be applied and does not have to. It can always, never have to, regardless of the consequences, and it's a tragedy. We ask that this amendment be accepted, as before, that this law looks like something.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31554	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašević. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The Committee on Defence and Security adopted this amendment with the legal technical regulation proposed by the Committee, which was agreed by the applicants of the amendments, while the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Are the applicants present? No, I don't. ( b) Does any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Nebojsa Lekovic. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted this amendment, and the Government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ( b) Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31556	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not my place to count how many MPs there are, but 150 cards are or 148, and we're gone over 40. But that should be taken into account by those who chair the National Assembly. Like most speakers from the Serbian Radical Party, I must express a protest that there is no government vice president and interior minister present today to attend the debate in discussing these amendments. Perhaps at some point he would have decided to accept some of these amendments, so that the law would be kind of improved. But obviously there's something more important to do. Maybe he's extorting some new evidence right now, or he may have authorized someone here, and we don't know that, on behalf of the Ministry and his name, he accepts or rejects some of the amendments. The essence of the amendment to Article 8, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is that it is not waiting for the director's office to inform the interior authority or the authorised person of the Ministry of Justice of some violation of order and peace at a sporting event, but that the authorised person of the Ministry should only intervene, if he notices that observers, viewers do not listen to the order of the director's service or that same service physically attack. We believe that at this point it is important to intervene as soon as possible, because conflict can be prevented at the beginning, and that the authorised persons of the Ministry are professionals who have a lot of experience in solving such problems, and that this is much better than the escalation of the conflict, so that only after informing the directorial service can intervention of the authorised authority. Take a look at those events in Kranj -- if the Slovenian police initially prevented the savages of Croatian fans from having such a riot, it would probably not have occurred, injure our waterpolysts, fans from Serbia-Montenegro who came, to cheer up the national team. Although in many members we advocate to limit the use of force towards fans and to regulate the behaviour of fans at sports events in a different way, in this case we are more inclined to ask for the quickest and timely intervention of the Ministry of the Interior, so that there is no more serious consequences and the development of conflicts in the stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31557	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31558	This member, Article 3, as proposed by the Government, practically means that the directorial service beats fans. Here's what he says: "When a viewer or a group of viewers do counter the orders of the directorial service or provide physical resistance... "So, the director's office is pulling them away, they're giving physical resistance, and that means that the director's service attacked the fans. In order to remove this and to eliminate the inaccuracy that follows in the original text of Article 3, we have proposed a new text that says: "When a viewer or a group of viewers do contrary to the orders of the directorial service or physically attacks its members, the authorised person of the Ministry will act without delay in accordance with the Law on Public Order and Peace". Why did we write this? Because of all the provisions of this law, regardless of the level of competition, the kind of sports activity, next to the directorial service, is a militia officer. That's what the law says. And the government tells us in its line of line three, if the director's office can't maintain order, then attacks the fans, so they resist, then they'll inform the police. And where's the police? Five kilometers or at the event where 2,000 are present, there are three police officers. They're the ones who put a police officer in this bill. That's what's at the door. They passed this law for Maracana and the JNA Stadium. They didn't pass this law for some stadium located in a small place, where a country club plays, where it could be 200 to 300 viewers, maybe even more, where theoretically there's no possibility of being more than five or six cops. Why did we propose this? The director's office can't apply physical coercion to anyone. It can stop you from coming in. But if that citizen attacks the redistributory service, the director's office isn't authorized to fight back, it's the police. It is therefore necessary to adopt this amendment, to prescribe exactly who is responsible for what. In order to know who overstepped power, who bears responsibility in the event of abuse as a natural person, and who bears responsibility in the event of overstepping. What is a physical defense; how is it stated in their text? It doesn't mean anything. I am here to specify the end of the obligation, so that we know the responsibility, and therefore I suggest that this amendment be adopted, so that this law really looks like one regulation guaranteeing the achievement of certain human freedoms.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31559	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Golub Rajic and Miomir Ilic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants, the word for the amendment has a People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31560	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group with fellow MP Miomir Ilic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. A bill on preventing violence and misbehaving at sports events, a law waiting more than a year to come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, Article 8 and Article 9 lay down the measures to be taken at all sports events. In particular, Article 8 sets out the organizer's obligations to educate the director's office and what the director's service should do, and I find that indisputable. I suggested that article 3 in Article 8 be amended and read as follows: "When it is necessary to apply the funds of physical coercion to carry out the measures referred to in this Article, the director's service shall without delay inform the authorised person of the Ministry who decides on how to apply the funds of physical coercion". I believe that this formulation is more precise and more effective will prevent unwanted consequences, rather than attitude 3 that reads here: "When a viewer or a group of viewers are acting contrary to the orders of the directorial service or giving physical resistance, this is notified without delay by the authorised person of the Ministry." The Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible, and the Committee on Defence and Security has not accepted it as competent, as well as the Government, but I propose that the Assembly accepts it in the voting day as well as other amendment parliamentary groups of the SPS, because they are well-intentioned and will correct this law, which, due to the increasingly present display of violent and improper behaviour by viewers at sports events, and especially at football and basketball matches, should nevertheless be prevented from escalating violent and improper behaviour and as a occurrence of disabling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31561	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Dobrosavljevic, Dragan Šormaz and Vukosav Tomašević. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. (Srdjan Petrovic, from the post: We give up. ) National MP Srdjan Petrovic, I am sorry, only the applicant of the amendment can give up, do not doubt the truth, but he cannot procedurally. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Article 9 says the organiser is obliged to co-operate with the ministry to implement measures and orders related to maintaining public order and peace. The organizer is obliged to ensure the presence of appropriate medical assistance services during sports events, as well as to achieve co-operation and, where appropriate, to ensure the presence of other competent authorities and organisations, public services and public enterprises (fire departments, inspection and municipal services and other services). I am a member of the 9th and in particular the second position is not controversial, surely it is necessary for the appropriate medical services to be present because of sports injuries, as well as in the case of unwanted injuries that can occur on sports grounds, as well as fire-fighting units. What the SRS resents in this Article 9, that is exactly attitude one, where it is defined that the organiser is obliged to co-operate with the ministry. The SRS insists that position 1 be changed and read, the organiser is obliged to carry out the measures and tasks of the ministry; that is, the law cannot contain incorrect terms such as co-operation, when it leaves parties with the possibility of consent. Simply, it must be precisely and precisely defined, and not leave it to someone to assess according to their own will whether or not they can do something in the government's reasoning that the amendment has not been accepted, it is said that the general intensities of the bill's proposal to strengthen the responsibility of the organisation for safety at sports events and that it is believed that the organizer would be in a passive position, i.e. that the organiser expects the tasks of the ministry. It is defined that the aim of this provision is, above all, to establish co-operation with the ministry to implement measures and orders relating to maintaining public order and peace. In any case, the organizer and how he has great responsibility, but he cannot be a priori only of co-operation which is not defined, but must be precisely taxed out in which respect he should co-operate with the Ministry. I'm just going to say an example of an experience that's not from sports fields, but at the end of the exposure, you'll realize it's also connected to sports fields. That was when the SRS organised a large folk rally in Leskovac last September. A month before that, the SRS informed the MUP about the rally, so she only gave information, that only a day before the rally came in writing form from the MUP that it was necessary to pay over 50,000 dinars to the MUP. There was one column where it reads -- funds, and imagine, please, there were cars, marches, those vans where a number of MPs could fit in the same column where the funds were also members of the MUP, that is, the number of inspectors in civilian, uniform police officers, and so many times so many dinars. So, even the members of the MUP are considered assets. I am sorry that Deputy Prime Minister and Ministry of Interior Dusan Mihajlovic is not there, so let me ask him if the members of the MUP are the same as the funds. Since we found out and had evidence that there was never any problem at any SRS rally and that we were able to organize ourselves, we received information from the MUP that it was a mistake and that it actually applies to the organizers of sports events. Apparently, the attempt was in Leskovac, as the government's regulation said a letter and a Belgrade dispatcher had arrived earlier that it had to be respected and that certain financial resources were given to the MUP. Obviously, this amendment and the MUP did not accept, for a simple reason, it is not about the passive position of the organisers, but it is about the MUP to collect its services. I think that all the members of the MUP are paid to maintain public order and peace and that without special extra-income, they should do their part of the job professionally. I'm sure they would have worked, if the Ministry of the Interior hadn't led Dusan Mihajlovic... (President: five minutes. )......................................................................................................... Who first holds that company, "Lutra." When I ask some inspectors in Leskovac who sell chickens, why do they do that, they say -- when the minister can sell bulls, we can sell chicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31563	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31564	Our intention was to remove inaccuracy with this amendment, but the government replied with the opinion that inaccuracy is in fact an installed view of how this law should look, the worse, the better. When it's said that someone is subordinate and obliged to cooperate with someone who's in charge, it doesn't essentially mean anything. Co-operation requires consent of will, identity of desire, interest. If someone tries self-rule terms at the beginning of the 21st century to regulate something that is the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the organisers, including the competent state authority, then the wrong term is unnecessarily used. We in the amendment use terms and terms that have a very precise and clear meaning that the organizer of sports events is obliged to implement all the measures and tasks of the MUP, and those measures and orders concerning public order and peace. Under this law, the organizer of sports events is responsible for the order of the game, at a sports event, but is not responsible for public order and peace. This is an exception, when he has an obligation to take concrete measures imposed upon him by the authorised official of the MUP on the basis of an assessment that the existing measures of the organizer's jurisdiction are not sufficient to prevent what is wanted by this law to prevent it. Very precise and clear, both for the judge for violations, and for the organizers of sports events, for participants and for the MUP. Unfortunately, the Ministry doesn't want precise and clear provisions, but they return Cardell to us through ZUR terms, such as co-operation, arrangements, agreements, we're all on the same job, on the same mission, both left and right, we all go to the same goal. We're not all going to the same goal, because they're different interests. The MUP has an interest in such sports events, organisers also have interest because they are keeping public interest, the number of viewers is increasing, the media is getting materials to write about it, and players achieve good prices, so managers also achieve good commissions, and then change and parties. As soon as they're suspected, the party changes immediately. So, the precision and clarity forbidden in this National Assembly, but unfortunately, I have to remind myself, no matter what form this law is voted in, it is the law of the National Assembly and Mihajlovic will have nothing to do with this law in terms of adoption, you will be responsible, and he will settle some unrest and say - well, such a jezek.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-06-19-0.u31565	This concludes today's work of the Ninth Extraordinary Session and continues work on Tuesday 24 June at 10.00 hours, a debate on the amendment tabled together by MPs Miomir Ilic and Dragan Jovanovic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that using the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Milan Radulović, Miodrag Jaćimović, Kasa Jožef, Miroslav Martic, Radoje Simić, Goran Ćirić, Dragan Šutanovic, Borislav Novaković, Nada Kolundžija, Dusan Petković, Milos Lučić, Milutin Saleskovic, Branimirović, Biaci Anton and Jon Cisamaš. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Violence and Insufficient Behavior in SPORT PREPARATIONS (sumption in details) Members of the 11th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miomir Ilic and Dragan Jovanovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected, the Defence and Security Committee did not accept it, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
