ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32817	The SRS will try with 16 amendments to a little bit to regulate this bill, since it is quite obvious that such a proposal is not good, that it does not provide that level of security, first of all, I mean security that ensures the independence of the National Bank of Serbia and the level of security that provides for the implementation of economic policy, which will not be threatened by monetary, foreign and financial discipline management policies, etc. One of the rules on economic life and stability is - stable money gives a stable economy and a stable economy guarantees stable money. Unfortunately, we don't have a stable economy, nor do we have stable money. This little bit of our economy that works is exhale, and these funds that came from abroad on various grounds had to be reprinted, to issue a new amount of dinar, that the National Bank of Yugoslavia, that is, now Serbia, maintains the stability of dinars with a restrictive monetary policy. But a weak vision of the stability of the dinars when in this country the social product can neither be realized nor can be increased. The inevitable consequence of this is the decline of the standard of living that we feel every day. This bill, as well as the previous laws governing the status of the Central Bank, does not go to those details that threaten the conduct of monetary policy and independence that is necessary. No sign of what this monetary policy should be, and that is not the subject of the law. There's probably some excuse that the monetary government has decided to bind dinar stability only to foreign reserves, not to finance fictitious stock funds. Perhaps this is the solution not to blow up this economic balloon in our country, but we are witnessing that the tax is being paid and the daily price is going to be higher and higher, this law and governor court is actually just a cover for something that's been going on for two years and at this point is giving up and taking up positions for the next two years. If there was any justification for the destruction of those banks a year ago, a bank full of dubiosis, today we are witnessing that all domestic banks are own-defined with known capital, with less or more risk-based placements on the strike of monetary authorities, and are being hit because the country is constantly entering the capital of organised crime from Europe, which will continue this privatisation process for the next two years to allow our privatised businesses to be foreign businesses. This is the starting position. Those who are interested, they probably had the opportunity to find out that both our privatized capital and the defined bank's capital are dead letter on paper, and unless there's an inflow of some assets from abroad, we can only find out that we don't have a domestic banking system. With a foreign banking system, we have experienced prosperity and happiness; except for five-six plasmas, which have been brought under question, foreign banks do not finance, do not credit our economy, but are tasked practically to help destroy it. We are currently paying for the blind, obedient implementation, the non-critical follow-up of the IMF policy, and this space is creating a debt space, where the capital will be in foreign hands, and at some point someone will inform us that we have no authority, no government, no state. That should also be taken into account when deciding on this bill, and I am saying this to make you understand this fictional argument between the governor and the finance minister. The background of this conflict is neither child's accessories nor the printing of money, but the creation of predispositions for the continuation of a two-year privatisation process in which we will be left without our economy. What's our current governor like? We asked for his permission last year. Under this bill, MPs have no ability to seek the resolution of governors. That's the new quality, the expert work, and last night we heard all this was written by strangers. You see, they're fighting over English translation. The governor does not respect a single decision, it was appropriate for him, as well as for Karic, to shut down Astra Banka, although three or four times the Federal Court has annulled the governor's decisions and has never implemented its solution. We tried to get him serious, so we said that on that basis, as a captured deposit of the SRS, there were 300,000 dinars left, and judging by the judgments, the decisions, were personally responsible only by the governor of the National Bank. It's just that in a few years, and probably when the first change of government, we're going to find out all the banking flows, find out how many dinars have changed for the euro, how many marks have come from abroad changed into euro and how the mob money has been laundered in this country. We have no reason to defend the governor, it's all true what you're talking about him, you haven't discussed his incursion with long pipes, self-declaration for the governor, the conduct of a personal policy, and it's a mirrored IMF policy. I'm saying this all for one simple reason, so that in a few months, we don't get into a situation where we're running around the streets and hungry citizens are breaking into other people's apartments, to provide what's fundamental to existence. Three months ago, I told you the danger of this event as it happened in Argentina, you laughed, you didn't take that warning seriously. It's about time you got up above that line you went under. It's not easy to run the country. The National Bank of Serbia with Mladjan Dinkic, the government of the Republic of Serbia in this composition, cannot secure prosperity. Remember, they can't provide prosperity, because there's no original ideology that fits this people and that's the main reason. Remember the second phenomenon that has occurred since 1990, that's the second half of the third year of power. All our authorities have had a problem in the second half of the third year since 1990, it's an unsolvable problem. Believe me, it's an insecure problem, it's time to do something, even if it's minimal for citizens to feel some improvement and move better. People lose their jobs, social security, you know, they breathe it out. That dispersion can't solve either the termination of the National Assembly's session, or any duel of these officers representing foreign interests here, take care.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32818	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32819	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the environment that precedes the debate on this law, came out of the frame of good taste last night and showed that MPs are only serving to reduce one terrible consequence of a conflict that I don't think is being falsified. He is deep and organic, he has been transferred, he is the essence of transposing political parties before the next elections, and Parliament should also adopt the law on the National Bank of Serbia and give for the right of one of the participants in the conflict. It is not fair to Parliament or to the MPs, and it is not a responsible relationship with the National Bank of Serbia, which is probably the most state-owned institution in every country in the world, or in this country, whose laws, as we hear, are written by foreigners, whose amendments are adopted by foreigners, etc. We've had a chance to hear and see that unfortunately the governor doesn't understand the budget, and I'm not giving it to any of the participants in the debate, but I want to tell my court about it. When the governor of the National Bank of a country doesn't understand what the deposit of the budget in the National Bank is for, and it tries to get the finance minister, the same country, to impute as a desire to print money, then that means the governor was the wrong choice. When you choose this new one now, make sure that you understand the basic essence of how the budget works and how the budget works, and how the budget is correlationd with the overall economic and economic, financial environment in one country. I would specifically comment here on Article 48, which regulates the conditions under which the National Bank of Serbia can be tasked abroad. I don't have anything to add to that article or take it away. I just want to point out that beyond what was proposed in the law in the form of a counter-guarantee for the already assumed financial obligations of Yugoslavia or the state of Serbia-Montenegro, we are practically introducing Serbia, or we already have it in the big ones, or you have already introduced it into a debt crisis, which is slowly being hijacked by control and which no expected economic growth can be expected, and which we now have compared to last year is lower, leading to a level that Serbian and Serbian citizens can properly, and in line with the obligations that exist to international financial institutions, to serve all these obligations. I would like to ask that this obligation be taken into account, because according to the information now available to the public, someone is operating with eight, and someone with $12, someone with 14 billion in financial commitments to foreign creditors, the IMF, the Paris Club and other international financial institutions. You do not have a National Bank who is able to respond in a good way to this incredible challenge and not bring the state into a position of bankruptcy, although the minister himself claimed yesterday that we are already in a position of technical bankruptcy. We also had the opportunity to hear, although it should be a basic feature of the functioning of DOS government transparency, that the governor of the National Bank strongly accuses the current finance minister of hiding money and that there is money in certain positions that neither the Prime Minister nor any of the ministers know about. This, of course, says nothing else, but that transparency is merely a declared form for political marketing, and that the very essence of the functioning of this government is discretion over this or that, in relation to this or that political party of the coalition, in relation to this or that of the minister who is a member of the coalition government. Serbian citizens lose more and deeper every day in the fight. I would like to comment on the proposed bodies of the National Bank of Serbia. They, according to this bill, have three, which is the monetary board, the council and the governor. He persistently insists that Mr Djelic, who did not allow us to attend this debate this morning, that such solutions exist, that such solutions allowed individual banks to be the most efficient central banks in the world or in Europe. I have to say, I'm sorry, this is nothing personal, that the minister said stupid yesterday. It is impossible for the governor of the National Bank to be the best in the world without having a bank in the first 100 central financial institutions of that kind in the world. There's something wrong with that, then. I advocate that there is no such thing as the proposed monetary committee - which is nothing but a board, and whose head is the governor with the vice-governments who, as we have seen, can control it in this way - and that the number of members of the council is increasing, that the experts of the council be more than members of the Council of Politicians. No one should fear the profession, the profession is only able to control the National Bank and the Governor himself in a way that corresponds to the interests of the state and citizens. If that were not the case, then we would define ourselves as something that countries in transition have not done, if we do not strive, except for Croatia and one more. Also, Mr. Minister's insistence to explain how Switzerland has one or another model is inappropriate. It's all Switzerland's been doing for centuries. Comparing the National Bank of Serbia or the future position of the National Bank of Serbia, its authorities and its governor's position with the similar position of the institution in Switzerland is, at the very least, malicious. The SPS MPs will not support the law in principle, because we do not want to participate, in a way that is only for some levelling of certain political interests, a single story that has nothing to do with the basic essence, has nothing to do with the law, and it has to do with, above all, I said, overcoming a political scene in Serbia. The head was full of haste, the head of revolutionary justice, the head of this government and the citizens of Serbia, the way the National Bank and the position of the governor of the National Bank could be taken over by crisis headquarters, by long pipes. Today, all of us here are equally suffering the real consequences of an unsuspecting assessment or an ugly intention from a time you call a historic turning point. Today is July 17th, 13 years since the formation of the SPS. I want this party to last long and take responsibility for the exercise of power in this country in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32820	Any of the other presidents, vice presidents or authorised representatives, come forward for a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia and a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Banks and other financial organisations. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the National Bank of Serbia (Serbs) You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojan Pajtić; together Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatović, Olgica Kirjanski, Dragan Milentijević and Meho Omerović; Branislav Blažić; Veroljub Arsić; Branislav Vakić; Slobodan Janić; Zlatan Jovanović; Petar Jojić; Stevan Kesejić; Ljubomir Kragović; Dragan Ljubojević; Dragan Pavić; Vjerica Radovanovic; Milovan Radovanovic; Dragoljub Stamenović; Together Ljuban Cvetanovic; Zoran Čolić; Together Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stanković; Together Golub Rajić and Djura Lazić; Together Živna Radodarka Dacin and Radović Bajić; Together Ljubomir Muć Muć Muć; Together Ljubar Muć Muć Muč and Rada Žir Žilić Žilić Žilić together; Together Živar Živar Živar Živar Živić and Živar Živar Živić together; Together with Živić and Živić Živić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint principle search, under which the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32821	We wanted to make this amendment very precise as to what the subject matter and content of this law is. If this amendment is adopted, believe that 99% of the provisions of this law should not be controversial if the position on the place and role of the National Bank of Serbia is followed. I'll read about the amendment. Of course, it is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and so far known standards that apply when it comes to central banks. So, the amendment to Article 1 reads: "This law regulates the status, organisation, management and business of the National Bank of Serbia, as an independent and unique issue of the institution of the monetary system of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for monetary policy, for the stability of domestic currency, financial discipline and the conduct of other transactions by law." It's not about the style difference compared to Article 1 of the bill, it's about the fundamental difference. Independence is guaranteed here, here it is determined exactly what the jobs of the National Bank of Serbia are, which it is responsible for, and here it is precisely prescribed that this law, the provisions that follow, regulate the organisation, the way of management, the status, which means the position, the authority and all possible relations that the National Bank of Serbia, under the Constitution and by law, as a parallel body of the executive authority in charge of monetary policy and the security of the stability of the domestic currency. In this way and this amendment, especially with three next amendments, we define the spirit of this law. If the National Assembly accepts this, and this is in every respect the standard applicable to central banks, then the proposing could bring here another 30-40 of its amendments and bring all these provisions into line with this initial provision. We think that this is how they avoid and close all open and controversial issues from that show that lasted two hours last night. This article regulates both independence, responsibility and all that is necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32822	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I only now hear from the chairman that my amendment has not been accepted by the motionary. So it continues with the humiliation of both the Serbian Parliament and the MPs, so that we do not receive reports from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, I asked for Article 2. The bill also changes that Article 2(2)'s position: "The Republic of Serbia is bound by the obligations of the National Bank of Serbia". It is perfectly normal for someone to have to stand behind decisions taken by the governor and the authorities responsible for the work of the National Bank of Serbia. This part is extremely important, in order to create trust among citizens and other payers, that they put their resources on savings or deposit according to sight, that if there is a ban on the work of a bank, it is the Republic of Serbia that will deprive citizens and legal and natural persons who suffer damage by such a decision, or that their money is not available to them. So far, the former governor, Mladjan Dinkic, has been closing banks. It simply depended only on his goodwill whether the money would be returned to the citizens, whether he was saved or just deposited by sight. It was also true for legal persons who did their business through that business bank. With this practice, it needs to be cleared up and that someone is responsible by law for such decisions by the governor. Item 2, which continues to take place in its own nature, reads: "For its work and business, the National Bank of Serbia only corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". It should be clear to everyone that the government of the Republic of Serbia is an executive body. The National Bank of Serbia is also an executive body. The election of governors is being established by the National Assembly, and the Government is being built by the National Assembly. There can be no influence on either organ's work. We now have an example here that the government, as an executive body, is constantly putting pressure on the People's Bank and the way it's going to operate. It goes so far that the government simply wants to cover its budget deficit through the National Bank of Serbia. In any case, it can be disastrous for the country's financial and economic flows, the least we can say can cause inflation.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32824	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32825	With this amendment, we wanted to make a difference compared to Article 1(2). It's a bill of law. This is where the promoter cited and said "The National Bank of Serbia's obligations are guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia". It works very much like what we are proposing, and that is, "The Republic of Serbia is guaranteed for commitments from the National Bank of Serbia". What I'm saying is that the Republic of Serbia cannot be a beneficiary of everything the National Bank of Serbia does. It can be a symbol for what it is about the borrowing of the National Bank of Serbia abroad and of domestic banks. It can vouch for anything that concerns obligations and responsibilities based on the conduct of a policy show, but cannot guarantee the Republic of Serbia for something that we could conditionally say is internal, and it concerns employees and the classical contractual relationship between the National Bank of Serbia, as a legal person, with any legal person on our market. So the word and the term "guarantee" is used in exactly certain situations, for exactly certain things where the state appears as a guarantee. That's what we pulled out and put in Article 2, to make it potential, and, of course, our Article 2(2) practically, not just to rephrase the whole of Article 2. It's a bill. It puts things in the right place. In Article 2, the final position of the bill says: "it will not receive nor seek instructions". That's about as if in law we said, "honest word, the People's Bank won't listen to anyone." But that's an "honorary word, it won't." There's no other word or term that points to a ban. There isn't. In order to point out the existence of this ban, both by law and by the Constitution of guaranteed independence and independence of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which again uses Kardeli's term "function", operates on behalf of the state as a show of institutions and fulfils other competences. We say, "For its work and business, the National Bank of Serbia only corresponds to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." With one positive definition, we remove all delusions and prevent TV shows, even insulting the dignity of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32826	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32827	For example, the state gives the central bank a position of independence and importance compared to what the central bank is doing. It makes sense for the amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs. We had the opportunity to meet these days that the budget of the National Bank of Serbia is higher than the budget of education by one year, one and a half times the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, twice as much as all the social contributions in the Republic of Serbia in a year. From the point of view of these arguments, what was proposed by the amendment defines in a better and more precise way what the state guarantees compared to what Mr Krasic said in some of the functions of the National Bank. The second position, which has been transposed by this amendment, also deserves attention from the Socialist Party of Serbia's MPs, will back the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32828	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic submitted together. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? None of the applicants of the amendment. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32829	Dear gentlemen, the MPs, in the amendment, we have said that Article 2 paragraph 3 is deleted, because the National Bank of Serbia will not receive in the performance of its function, nor ask for instructions from state authorities and other persons. This means that the monetary committee, which contains all the powers and all the harsh authority of that group of people who are solely civil servants, and whose assembly is to grant these powers, will not have any obligation to respond to anyone in this country, to any body, to any person appointed by this assembly, to any written document, to a written decision, and not even to respond to the decisions of this Parliament, or to any measure. I am talking about an important detail, and this detail is the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which puts the country's economic policy on the table for next year. The document itself represents one of the key documents of the country's economic and fiscal policy in the coming year. How is it possible for us to choose from here the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and we cannot, as the National Assembly, forward to him the document in which he will be obliged to coordinate the business of the National Bank of Serbia with the economic policy of the state, what this parliament adopted, and finally the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think the bill went further with powers than it existed in the previous phase. It is simply amazing that this amount of harsh authority, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is contrary to all the positive legal regulations of the financial sphere in this country, we are making such a proposal in this law. This is not a reduction in the independence of the National Bank, as currently said v.d. Governor of the National Bank. It is an absoluteism, and in the next members of the law it stands well and it is said that they will only inform the competent authorities in the Serbian Parliament. So we won't have any authority. He doesn't have any advice from the National Bank of Serbia, neither does this organ. It is simply amazing to go this way and give such cruel authority to the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32830	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? I'm asking the MPs to turn off their cell phones. It is unacceptable to hear the sound of a mobile phone during the session. It's a lack of respect for this institution, like throwing it out of the bench. Self-respect is a decision to turn everyone off their cell phone. Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Vakić. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Branislav Vakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32831	Dear MPs, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia. Article 3 of the bill is amended and reads: "The National Bank of Serbia must manage and contribute to: the establishment of internal and external stability of the economy, the preservation of stability and health of the national currency, the stabilisation of prices of goods and services, the harmonised valuation of the financial market (interest policy), the stability and reliability of foreign exchange operations, the preservation of labour value (earnings and wages). The operations referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of market economy." The amendment sets out which is run by the National Bank of Serbia in its business. Of course, to carry out all these tasks is the most responsible governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and how fortunate that our governor is also involved in these matters. Maybe then we can accept that he has a salary of 300,000 dinars. Instead, our governor runs politics, bickering with ministers in the government. We read in the newspaper that they worship epithets "idiot, psychopath, criminal", but when Dinkic goes away, another DOS man will come back to perform someone's tasks and deal with politics. The media under DOS will give him praise, and when he does his time, these same DOS media will throw him under his feet, as our people say - Jovo again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32832	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32833	The government as a legislator, and in this law according to the manner that has been in force for several months, usually introduces a member at the beginning of the law to say what is the objective of the law, institution or some area. It's not a substance that's being introduced into the law because it can't be a norm, no matter what norm it is. We have tried this amendment to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia understand why there is a National Bank, unlike them, when they claim that the National Bank is the goal, and the goal is the last stop point, we do not slave to these emotional concepts, but we use something that is right, which is binding. We consider that so-called. The goal, they say, is certainly to establish the internal and external stability of the economy. If that wasn't the task of the National Bank of Serbia, then we don't need the economy. They're running away from it. They say only price stability. We'll get to that. We say the task is to safeguard the stability and health of the national currency. It is a health a little archaic expression, from the time of Lazarus Pachu, but they also give it up. Furthermore, stability in the price of goods and services, that's where we agree. We believe that the National Bank of Serbia, regardless of whether it is a policy applicable to banks, open-market operations or borrowing and in other ways, is obliged to take care of the harmonisation of the value of capital, i.e. interest policy. It does not have to interfere directly, to prescribe, to limit interest rates, but it has its instruments, it can influence banks with decisions and orders to form an interest rate and thus ensure price stability. Since this is the end of this time, I would just like to say something that is clear to all laymen, the National Bank of Serbia would have to preserve the value of our work. That means we don't work for one mark, that means that when she gets her money expression, she's adequate for the work she's done, and the only guarantee is that she guarantees the stability of the domestic currency. It must be the National Bank of Serbia, independent of television.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32834	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicant, the word for the amendment has the People's MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32835	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have declared an amendment to Article 3(1) of the bill. He said in the proposal: "The main objective of the National Bank of Serbia is to achieve and maintain price stability. "If the proposer has already defined that the objectives are also incorporated into the text of the bill, which is not technically so common, then it is the turn to also comment on these objectives in the way they are expressed here. We do not consider that the core objective of the National Bank, any, including the National Bank of Serbia, should be to maintain price stability. As presented in the draft law, it turns out that the National Bank is the only or main guarantee of stability of prices in this area. Where are the goods producers, where are the service providers, where are the ministries, where is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who, according to the Constitution, is also responsible for the price policy, and that also means for their stability? In my opinion, the National Bank is neither more responsible than the Government of the Republic of Serbia for price stability, nor should it be the primary objective of its establishment and operation. That's why we suggested a supplement, we didn't want to erase this position, but to add it to the priorities, that the National Bank should as a central objective of its dealings should have currency stability and financial discipline, that this is the area of responsibility of the National Bank in which we expect the corresponding results from it. If this term "price stability" used here is interpreted as a rope, so it's thought of the price of capital, then unfortunately we have to remind ourselves that we are one of the countries in the transition where the price of capital is used, if you look at the level of interest, one of the most expensive in these markets and these areas, and that's where the National Bank has not achieved these priorities. That is why we do not view this supplement as harmful because we think that we are returning the National Bank to the focus of its activities, not to the stability of the price, which, according to us, is in the area of responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32836	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, and by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32837	Dear gentlemen, Members of the People, why did we go with the intervention of this species in Article 3(1) and say that after the word "stability of the price", the words "stability of the currency and financial discipline" are added. Like my colleague, Mr Nikolic, I must say that the primary task of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to take care of price stability, but this attitude, and the persistent insistence that it remains like this, is to be understood in the following way. So at this point, I'm only talking about the price of electricity. I don't know how, in which way and in which model it came to sign an agreement with the IMF, that it determines our electricity price. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also been excluded, and this authority has been granted exclusively to some federal authorities, i.e. the National Bank of Serbia. I understood that the next way. It is constantly said in Serbia that there are four billion more euros in citizens, and the National Bank of Serbia has made a team of exchange offices. They're not exchange offices, they're ransom exchange places. It is this member who introduces me into this relationship, and this is his primary goal and task, not what we propose, to take care of the currency stability of dinars and financial discipline. So if that's the motive for this assembly to accept what happened in the previous period, to give it full legitimacy, we've come into a situation that this is one of the ways to get out of straws, out of the hands of citizens, to collect and the rest of the foreign exchanges to allegedly show that we have quality foreign exchange reserves. Yesterday we spoke from here that a quality foreign exchange reserve, the only quality foreign exchange reserve in the world, is an export currency that is due to the sale of goods from the Serbian economy on the foreign market. I therefore deeply doubt the idea that this situation is treated in this way and that something that belongs to, in my opinion, exclusively to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, one number of ministries, primarily the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which has a control function through market inspection, to control the prices of products and services on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32838	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32839	"In order to stabilise prices, measures should be applied that will affect such a degree of domestic demand that is adapted to the growth of the social product. The growth of social product allows about 6% of domestic demand to rise above 5%. However, it is necessary to avoid applying direct measures to regulate prices such as freezing, which are always short-term in their concept, causing major disturbances, gray markets and disparities. In order to achieve these measures, monetary and fiscal policies should be used. In this respect, it is necessary to review the economy and public sector deficits that should be covered by public loans. This kind of policy could contribute, etc." These are parts of the SRS programme, which is very skilled, as soon as it came down to Belgrade's airport, Mladjan Dinkic recasted as some of his observations in 1997 and began to radically deal with economic policy. So Mr. Dinkic didn't invent a hole in a potted pot, it exists a long time ago. Of course, we didn't want to slow him down. We are pleased to have as many people as possible accept our economic programme. Here we are talking about an amendment of MPs relating to one of the objectives of the National Bank of Serbia, which is to ensure the stability of the prices of goods and services. It is a new manner under the influence of the International Monetary Fund, it reported since last year, that all monetary policy extremes bind to price stability, as price stability says it guarantees a proper monetary policy and stability of the domestic currency. But what's worth it is that we have both devalued the mark, the euro and the dollar and everything that comes here has to be devalued. It must be devalued for one simple reason why our market is open as a can, foreign goods enters at dumped prices, without customs controls, without paying certain obligations and so low foreign products compete with our economy that is burdened with high taxes, contributions and other taxes, burdened with mandatory privatisation and it has to stagnate, and the government does not want one of their alleged objectives to be the creation of internal and external stability of the economy. There's no price stability unless there's a stable economy. Stable money - a stable economy. A stable economy - stable money. This virtuality with us, that we're supposed to have a stable course, and we don't have an economy, that's Argentina.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32840	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party Parliament Club, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. The bill, to be amended and it reads: "The National Bank of Serbia is doing the following jobs: establishing and implementing monetary policy, determining and leading the policy of the dinar course and proposing the regime of the dinar course, protecting, benefiting and managing foreign reserves (permanent and current), issuing banknotes and coins, regulating and controlling the functioning of payment traffic in the country and abroad, issuing and withdrawing the work permit, controlling the credit and legality of banks and other financial organisations and adopting general acts in the implementation of laws in the area of banking business, carrying out legal tasks for the Republic of Serbia, performing other tasks established by these and other laws in the area of banking, ensuring financial discipline of foreign exchanges and credit relations. "The government again wants the Republic of Serbia to become a full member of the EU, the IMF, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You are passing a law on the National Bank of Serbia and this law is in fact a cruel law, as is all the other laws that have been passed in this House with the aim of joining Serbia in Europe. The National Bank of Serbia in the Bill of Law was defined as a central bank that itself and responsibly operates in accordance with market economy principles, but that is not true. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from the economy and one of the key problems of our economy is the lack of capital, which is one of the basic constraints for our further economic development. The imminent reduction in the volume of business activity in enterprises, which cannot operate on market conditions, must be balanced by opening new companies. However, there are almost no long-term credits for the economy in our market, while short-term loans in the economy are rare and expensive. The current governor has closed many economic banks in Serbia, and as an example, it is the Sabačka Banka, which was liquid at the time of closure, and was created by the Sabbath businessmen, with the aim of taking short-term loans for the purpose of starting economic capacity and production. You've imported foreign banks today, so when I walk the Sabbath streets glamour with inscriptions and ads, but the problem is who's going to use them when money and production are gone. The goal of today's government is to destroy the domestic banking system because it stops production and economic flows. The goal is the path to privatisation because many from the current government become owners of companies sold at a bulwark price. For this live example, the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, an electromechanist, Radoslav Veselinovic, is in the Sabak municipality. He took the Mepritlastics factory, and now he's hijacking the property and facilities of the Earth Cooperative "Cerovac". My amendment lists the groups of jobs done by the National Bank of Serbia and I think that my amendment will be accepted in order to improve this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32842	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32843	There is no more or less disagreement when it comes to Article 4, because we are proposing eight points, as the government's proposal says, and of course most of these points are purely technical matters, except for the first point, which is the establishment and implementation of monetary policy, in which the absolutely independent and independent National Bank of Serbia is. I would draw attention to the 2nd indent of this article, which is this amendment, which is that the National Bank is leading and determining the policies of the dinar course, but the course regime only proposes to the government. That's our proposal, and what you won't, that's another thing. This is what we indicated here yesterday that the government and the National Bank of Serbia as parallel bodies at the same height and same distance from the National Assembly, the parallel authorities of the executive government, must by this law be brought into this situation when conflict is possible, but co-operation is necessary because of the government's responsibility for economic policy and the National Bank for Price Stability. This is the balance that avoids interference, but also absolutely independent policy-making by the National Bank of Serbia. It's a key amendment that needs to be accepted and solved the problem of the minister coming to us when there's a direct transmission, no. There is a need to balance that power, so that what with the right of the people does not happen here, that it is possible for the governor, the entire National Bank's monetary committees to be an autonomous authority of government, independent of anyone, and yet there is no provision here for an effective resolution of the governors. The council, as a supervisory authority, has been appointed as a society of old people who only adopt reports and hardly has any supervisory function. If so, why must they be experts, they can be any people. So they set up advice, as some alleged political cap, reportedly experts, and they ask about irrelevant matters, they adopt the final account, they adopt a financial business report, they determine the fees that banks should pay for payment traffic and the end of the story. Eventually, if they reach the majority, they can propose a shift, or a resolution of the governors, and there is a strategic council at the level of the National Bank, not with the Government, but with the Minister of Re-Download. This should be taken into account, this should be emphasized, because this is still the National Assembly, not a barn.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32844	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Panajotovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicant, the word for the amendment has the People's MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32845	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, we have proposed an amendment to Article 4. The draft law establishing the functions of the National Bank of Serbia and we propose to amend one of the proposed functions and add two new functions; they are not new, but are dropped by us in the bill. It's nice that Minister Djelic has paid attention to coming to the National Assembly, it's less nice that he still doesn't listen to us, it seems to me from the first amendment, but well, there's probably a reason for that kind of behavior. We propose to amend point 2 with regard to liability for the dinar course regime. The promoter predicted that the National Bank would determine the dinar course regime with the government's consent and independently lead the course policy, and we amendmently propose that the National Bank would only propose a dinar course regime and that the government would be responsible for determining the course regime, and then the National Bank would freely lead the policy of the dinar course. Certainly, in the spirit of the concept of a law that seeks the highest degree of independence of the National Bank, the purest solution would be that it does so alone, without anyone's consent, without anyone's approval. I think the state of our country, in our economy, is giving us the obligation to look for solutions that will be the most comprehensive. The creepy external trade deficit, the state of the country's economy, suggests that existing concepts of central and monetary institutions' functioning must change slightly. The dinar course regime, at least in this transitional period, until we reach the green branch, must be one of the levers in determining the macroeconomic policy for which the government is responsible. On this particular subject, some quasines of a monetary institution have been shot so far. Whether the dinar course regime should be a goal for itself, to be proud and proud of some stability, and to follow the effects of both the regime and some other moves and measures are more than disastrous, and yet all accounts are eventually made to the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I don't see why the government is running away from getting a responsibility, one more authority, that's before I say, in the end, the bill turns out to her. We also suggest that what we think is common, that the core functions of the National Bank must be regulated by the amount of money in circulation and how to maintain liquidity in payments in the country and abroad. These are the basic functions of all central banks, they should be these, and we don't understand why they're not written in the basic text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32846	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32847	Dear gentlemen, Members of the People, I think that with the addition of this Article 4 in point 2 and point 3, where the rest of the points move further to nine, we simply wanted one of the essential tasks to be legitimateized in the right way. If we have suggested that the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not give consent to its basic function, which is to run the country's economic policy for a year, it is to establish a course, not to impose the National Bank through a monetary committee that represents a certain virtual institution, which corresponds to itself. I think more powers have been given here to the National Bank of Serbia than she has ever had before. We're getting into a situation where this monetary committee can do whatever it wants. So, they won't account for anyone, and this parliament will only inform to the extent that it considers it necessary for the facts of how it leads politics. And which one does politics? Price policy, not leading the policy of stability of the dinar course, not running the exchange business, but running the ransom business, is a series of details that are important, especially an important function to regulate the amount of money in circulation and how to maintain liquidity in payments in the country and abroad. It is one of the basic functions of the National Bank of Serbia. If we're not going to put it as the core function of the National Bank of Serbia, it's not a more important task to control business banks. I think these amendments are extremely correct, that they have just made arguments to this Parliament that they can support them and I call on the MPs to support these amendments, because in this way, no matter who is in power, we will have the full function of the National Bank of Serbia, regardless of whether this current authority is in power or tomorrow some other. I think we'll come to a situation, if there is a change of government, that these things will have to be complemented by the law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32848	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32849	If the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the only authority responsible for implementing economic policy in the Republic, has no influence and does not wonder what the dinar course regime will be, then there is no economic policy. How can someone be responsible for something that happens under the influence of someone else, third or five? What are these levers of economic power in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? They're gone. What can happen? The government of the Republic of Serbia does not control the growth of monetary mass. The government of the Republic of Serbia has no insight into the amount of money in circulation. The government of the Republic of Serbia can have influence and has had a crucial impact in one period, but the most likely influence is banks, businesses and the National Bank on forming secondary money, functioning of the financial market and other important things affecting the price, stability and economic policy. This foreign exchange-based money printing policy is necessary, necessary, but no economic growth, only has economic stagnation. Look at the closed factories, look at this privatisation. What do we suggest? Almost all those seeking amendment intervention on Article 4 suggest that the government of the Republic of Serbia decide on the dinar course regime, but on a proposal from the National Bank of Serbia. So they have to negotiate, come up with a joint proposal, come up with a common decision. Then let the National Bank run a policy of dinar course. What's he gonna be like? Whether it's going to be fluctuating, whether it's going to be a connection, it doesn't matter if it's going to finance fictitious stock funds, and it doesn't matter in the extreme. He's responsible. There's no responsibility like this. This kind of economic policy is run by the IMF through the National Bank, that is, its governor, through G17 and those people who have been introduced into the government, Kori Udovicki, Pitic, etc. There's no economic policy. Malten, you feel sorry for calling Zoran Zivkovic, and the man has no leverage to run economic policy, but what to do is keep him company.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32850	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Golub Rajic and Đura Lazic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Golub Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32851	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, on the proposal of the Law on the People's Bank of Serbia, which the Assembly is considering by emergency procedure and express in the fight and attack between the governor and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with counterpart Lazic as a member of the 4th law, I submitted an amendment to the SPS parliamentary group. We have suggested that in Article 4 paragraph 1 in point 2) behind the word "Government" be placed point and stuck, and the words "and independently conduct the policy of the dinar course" are deleted. This Article 4 is contained in the basic provisions and states what functions the National Bank of Serbia performs. It was given through about eight points. According to us, only point 2) is disputed, which says that the National Bank of Serbia determines the dinar course regime with the government's consent and independently conducts the policy of the dinar course. If the National Bank of Serbia is independent in carrying out monetary policy, except that in determining the course of the dinars it is necessary to comply with the government of the Republic of Serbia, it is too much of the text at point 2) whose erasure is proposed by this amendment. The National Bank of Serbia has been defined in the bill as the central bank of the Republic of Serbia, independent and independent within the limits of the powers established by these and other laws, whose primary aim is to achieve and speed up price stability. The National Bank of Serbia, in accordance with the provisions of this law, will not receive or request instructions from state authorities and other persons in the performance of its functions, further ensuring its independence. As the core objective of the National Bank of Serbia is achieved through its overall operation, not solely through the implementation of monetary policy, the bill establishes the basic functions of the National Bank of Serbia and, among others, the establishment of a dinar course regime, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why the independent policy-making of the dinar course is too high. Although the Finance Committee has not accepted this amendment, I suggest you vote for it. For this law, I am not sure that it will achieve the objectives set, and above all, achieve and maintain price stability and preserve financial stability, not jeopardising the achievement of the basic objective of supporting the implementation of the economic policy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32852	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant's opinion is not given, nor is the opinion of the Finance Committee. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32853	Ms. Komic, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament and colleagues, in Article 7. The bill on the National Bank of Serbia envisions the education of Serbia's National Bank branches. I proposed on behalf of the Vojvodina Reformer that the law provide for the compulsory education of branches in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Pristina, while giving the possibility of education and other branches, as we now know there are three more branches. According to our proposal, these three branches have no impact on monetary policy creation and are needed exclusively for operational reasons, in order to be closer to the economy and to carry out as efficient operations as possible for banks and businesses. We know that there are already other branches that are educated based on statutes, which are in Nis, Kragujevac and Užica. This amendment provides an opportunity for these, as others, where deemed necessary, to be educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32854	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Rajko Baralic, an authorised representative, an SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32855	Mrs. Komic, Mr. Minister, we understand the political position of the motions of this amendment and do not dispute their legitimate right to make a proposal, as in the amendment to Article 7. The SPS stands for Serbia as a country that makes up the state has all the functions that the state has and all the instruments that one state has available. The law stipulates that there are branches in various large cities of Serbia. If we agreed to have major branches in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Pristina, it seems to me, then we would put into place the very essence of the central bank, its organisation. We cannot agree that in every law a little bit, but we had an omnibus law that made quite a legal galimatia in Serbia, tried to prepare legal and every other court to one day get a higher degree of autonomy than it should be in our understanding. That's why we can't support this amendment. I apologize to my esteemed colleague, Theodore. This is nothing personal, it's just opposing a political attitude. I hope your esteemed colleague understands that. Therefore, the SPS MPs cannot support the amendment to Article 7 in this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32856	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32857	The SRS will not support this amendment, for the simple reason that the names of territorial-organisational units, whether it is autonomy or the units of local self-government and their names that mark, may also be toponyms, are not substance that enters the law. This law does not prohibit what is proposed by the amendment, but not by law, but by the statute, as an act governed by the internal organisation of the National Bank of Serbia. Article 6 simply states that there is the possibility that the National Bank of Serbia will educate branches, as an organisational form of the National Bank of Serbia on a specific territory and leave it to be arranged closer to the statute. I must remind you that the previous member has been regulated to confirm that statute in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Why would it be wrong to adopt this amendment? Practically, then this assembly, in a way, would prejudge the work of the Constitutional Commission, because if they go to regionalisation, that would be six to eight regions, then we would have to change this law and put in the main branches of the region. Secondly, we have this damn happiness with the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, where there was one similar solution -- the National Bank of Yugoslavia has two main branches, in Belgrade and Podgorica. You know what happened. We will not support this amendment, because in every way possible we are trying to prevent that from happening. I believe the amendment was not given with that intention, but this is not a matter that needs to be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32858	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ) The word is held by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32859	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have asked that Article 9 be deleted, in order to integrate the function of the governor of the National Bank, because this can be a position in Article 16, where it is spoken about what the governor of the National Bank of Serbia is doing and where it belongs where the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia are spoken. Of course this function is meant to be necessary, but we think it is absolutely unnecessary to treat here in this way and as a previous question to present the tasks and tasks of the governor of the National Bank. It's clear, in Article 16, where the governor is spoken of, and in Article 17, what he needs to do, he can do in both 16 and 17. It may even be better in Article 17(2) to stand by what he should do, i.e. to represent and represent the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32860	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Janjic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's not present. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32861	This amendment is the logical consequence of our amendments to the first few members of this bill; "execution of their functions" should be replaced by the words "their business". If it is indisputable that the National Bank of Serbia should work on some of the principles of the market economy, which is in the bill, and all it does is business, then it should avoid the use of this busy term "functions" -- "in fulfilling its functions". This means nothing today in the terms of the market economy and such a state organisation, when, according to what the state authorities are doing, it is as if affairs are competent, for which the state, the body has rights and responsibilities, individuals of rights and obligations. So it's not just a termisation. In addition, if people didn't get confused and think I was proposing something that doesn't comply with the Constitution and with the existing legal system, the word "business" is more relevant to the National Bank of Serbia, for one simple reason why it has its balance sheet, has its own balance sheet, has its own special accounting. She trades with a specific slave called money. What looks like functions is to carry out operations under the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia, which is to be able to pass general acts prescribed by the rules of business for banks and other bodies. Given that most of these jobs carried out by the National Bank of Serbia in terms of what belongs to the business, this termological correction is essential because it is in favour of giving the right importance and the right place to the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32862	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32863	Ladies and gentlemen, after last night's "marriage" argument that the RTS carried directly, and the nation watched, it's all clear, it just remains unclear who's mom and who's dad. Article 11. The bill on the National Bank of Serbia, which I submitted an amendment to in front of the SRS parliamentary group, concerns the co-operation of the National Bank of Serbia and its membership in international financial organisations and national financial institutions. The position of the 1st member reads: "The National Bank of Serbia can be a member of international financial organisations and institutions and can co-operate with national financial and credit institutions to fulfil its basic objective and functions". The amendment I have proposed is to delete the words "for the purpose of fulfilling its basic objective and its functions" and replace the words "just to carry out the tasks of its jurisdiction in accordance with the law and established economic policy of the Government". This formulation that the promoter gives in this first position is inaccurate. It allows quite a comfortable interpretation and abuse. We propose this amendment to clarify this co-operation with international organisations and membership in international financial organisations. The National Bank of Serbia, under this law, should be independent, however, despite this independence, it must implement the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is defined in a certain way in Article 3 of this bill, where attitude 3 states that the National Bank of Serbia, without questioning the achievement of its basic goal, will support the implementation of the economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, etc., again very inaccurate. In fact, this formulation does not oblige the National Bank to implement the government's economic policy, but recommends it. We think that it is also inaccurate and that it should have been arranged in another way, but also in that way -- the National Bank of Serbia has an obligation to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's economic policy -- and according to this, it is our amendment, so that this is fully and clearly defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32864	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32865	The amendment would have to be accepted because it represents both the government and the National Bank of Serbia. And let me tell you, it's getting a little embarrassing off the menu. I don't know who could explain what this means "to achieve your basic goal". If the goal is the last stop point, it is not executed, but accomplished, achieved, achieved. It's a translation again. But it's a fundamental question. The National Bank of Serbia must co-operate with international organisations and institutions, and the co-operation must in some way be framed. It must be carried out within the limits, restrictions on the prescribed laws, the Constitution and, of course, the relevant objectives that have been outlined, the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If this were not a unique path and what is run by the National Bank of Serbia, and in collaboration with abroad, then we would have this situation that we have today. The government of the Republic of Serbia is not questioning economic policy. It only looks at the state of the liquidity of the budget, whether it can properly service the commitments, whether enough of the dinar is printed, on the basis of some assistance from abroad, whether the reserves have been increased, and whether these foreign currency funds have been returned to the National Bank, and otherwise provided to make the dinar as stable as possible. What do we got? What kind of economic policy is that? It's the IMF's economic policy. We do not need the National Bank of Serbia to lead the policy of the International Monetary Fund. We don't need a National Bank to run the policy of other international organisations. We need the National Bank of Serbia to co-operate with abroad to achieve the goals and interests of the people living in this area. Probably, that dinar course doesn't have to be nailed like this. It has to be in some function that our economy lives, works, works, that the economy has a reproductive capacity, not to sell companies for a bag of money, so eventually it turns out that bigger stocks are in stores of the company that was sold, than the money that came from privatisation. That's why we say, some limits, some boundaries exist in this collaboration, not blindly listening. Yesterday I said, and to that law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia in 1993, which barely understood Labus when he voted for the law, the IMF gave consent and said "fantastic". On the version, we heard last night, made by Djelic, "fantastic." The version, offered by Dinkic, "fantastic". And what's all "fantastic"? It's fantastic that we're headed for the ashes, so it's all going to go out, so I guess something's going to come up.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32866	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants don't want a word. The word has the deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32867	Here begins part of the law that speaks of the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia. We ask our amendment to delete the monetary committee from this article. This is one of our essential proposals, and I have to explain it. We had three bodies; it's the governor, we're asking him to be a elected deputy, and the essence of our proposal is to significantly strengthen the function of the National Bank of Serbia's council. There is often talk of experiences from the former republics, so, if necessary, the Slovenian law is good, Croatian is good. Then why is one of the most significant experiences of the law not taken, which says that the National Bank of Slovenia's advice is the most significant body that sums up various experts from different areas and has a large number of members. Only five people are offered to the council. What's the essence of the monetary committee? It contains all functions and all government in the National Bank of Serbia. They don't answer to anyone or anything. They're taking responsibility on their own. They schedule themselves sessions of the monetary committee. So if there are five, there can be three of them sitting down, and they decide what happens to foreign exchanges in this country, which will be loans, how money will be printed, which will be currency stability in this country, price stability. There's even, if you don't pick five, because here you predict the possibility between three and five, I can vote, if there's only three in the meeting, that two vote in favour, one against. Those colleges can also be attended by a finance minister who is not asking questions. He can say something, but two people in this country will determine everyone else. Both the Assembly and the Government, and I don't know who needs everything else, the entire economy, the upgrade, the infrastructure, the development of this country will edit the measures. It kind of looks like Louis JV who said, "I'm France, I'm God, it's the state, it's me." Therefore, is it possible to go to this amount of harsh authority, that only one to two people can manage all the functions provided for in this law themselves, which relate to the overall principle and functioning of the National Bank of Serbia. Simply, according to us, this monetary committee represents a simple college of governors and its vice-governments or advisers, and there is no need, they see each other every day, to be given these functional essential powers, which disturbs the rights of all other competent state authorities to ask themselves something in the application of the law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32868	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32869	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is not a controversial argument offered for this amendment. In the debate in principle, I also said that I think that there are two extra organs here and that the monetary board is a board of directors, so I wouldn't repeat the argument about it. The Socialist Party of Serbia will abstain in voting on the amendment because the amendment has not been submitted by a legitimate group. We dispute the legitimacy of this parliamentary group and for us this amendment does not exist, but we do not oppose the argument we have heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32870	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32871	The SRS parliamentary group did not intend to intervene on almost all members of this law concerning the National Bank of Serbia. In the principle debate, we tried to remove the dilemma over some solution that was made a few years ago, when the National Bank of Yugoslavia, next to the governor, had a deputy and counsel. The Council was practically abolished by a decision by the Federal Constitutional Court because it was then assessed by a political interest that in that provision, the only member of the Constitution of the SRJ, where it is said that the National Bank of Yugoslavia is run by the governor and that he is responsible for implementing the policies of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, there is no room for a collegiate body to control him. A mistake was likely made at the time, but this solution by the federal constitutional court was likely caused by the same effect between the SRJ and the authorities in the Republic of Montenegro. In principle, the governor should be a man representing, representing and most responsible for the work of the National Bank of Serbia. He must have some control body in the hands of the National Bank of Serbia. What matters is, whoever chooses, solves. The defect of this bill is that 20 MPs in the National Assembly can launch an initiative and submit a proposal to vote for mistrust with the government of the Republic of Serbia and cannot initiate a procedure to resolve the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The monetary committee is a college, or, if we do it today, me and my Vice-Governors, me and my home friends, probably waiting with them for New Year's Eve. Is there a privatized organ? It doesn't exist. Is that a danger? It's a terrible danger. The daughter of this, the working woman of this son-in-law, is having fun with this... That's what we've been listening to these two years. This is the measure to be found, as far as anyone should be and near the National Assembly, as the only authority that has the right to appoint and replace it. We didn't want to bother you very much, because you're enough for yourself to butcher this too. But keep an eye on it. The National Bank of Serbia must exist and operate when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32872	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment refers to the title and article 13, and was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants don't want a word. The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32873	The need for this amendment is technical, and it speaks of the previous one, where we said that the monetary committee of the National Bank of Serbia should be deleted as an institute in the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia, to give powers to the governor and control function and the control task of the National Bank of Serbia's advice. I say this for a number of reasons, and the existing experience, what practice has shown in Serbia over the past few years, I must say, that in the previous years, even 20 and 30 years, the unrecognizable names of the governors of the National Bank of Serbia, or the governor of Yugoslavia, are simply not known in the public who these people were. Today we have a chance to have an estranged star that has become governor of the National Bank in a magical way. Somehow, it coincides with the formation of the "Monetary Impact" group with the period of shutting down four of Serbia's largest banks. This happened in the days of the great Serbian holidays, when the people celebrated, had no time to deal with such important issues. The monetary committee, if we give ourselves the right to bring in someone like this, or to give a man authority to us, and you'll see what he's like, or when he comes to the governor's place, and he realizes that there's more justice here than this predecessor had, and you'll rely on his experience, then we'll get into a situation, and the authorities and we from the opposition, that we simply don't have answers to many questions, how to even control the governor, the monetary committee, so on. A college, which can decide every Monday, and here he is given the task of sitting together for 15 days. I guess it's only natural that when the governor chooses his best associates, each day to arrange the jobs and tasks he does, to communicate with each other, and he can write to himself every day that he had a session of the board's colleges, but without authority. Part of these powers must go to the advice of the National Bank of Serbia. This has to be controlled. So, as governor, I schedule my own monetary committee, I make a decision, no one controls me, no one can do anything to me, and I function. You're right, Minister, when you told Dinkic last night... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... that he has perfectly great powers. However, he won't be the governor probably, but he's got even greater powers. The government has no authority, neither does this parliament, because it is said here that we, whether working bodies or this parliament, will be informed about what the National Bank of Serbia is doing. Is there anything we can ask? We won't. He's not coming to our meeting, he's just gonna send us some paper, like he just did on the Privatisation Committee. Most MPs no longer know what is happening in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32874	Do any of the other authorised participants in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment is on Article 13 and was jointly submitted by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Rade Bajic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicants of the amendment, the word has a People's Parliament, the Long-wing Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32875	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I think our distinguished minister has been quite tired since he came to this assembly hall, because here he has so far had no opportunity to concentrate on any amendment to the pressures of MPs individually, coming to the front row. I'd like to ask the minister if he knows what the amendment is. But I really think I really respect that Mr. Minister attends whenever his laws are on the agenda and amendments. We're used to always reacting after everyone, giving some reason, but I'll try to explain the amendment that on behalf of the MP group, Rada Bajic and I have submitted, that in Article 13 behind the word "governor" is put on a tight line and add the words "manager deputy". Why the deputy governor? I think it's the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia at all, and I hear there's a few other colleagues, that there should be a deputy governor's seat, because it would simply strengthen the responsibility of the governor himself, in the sense that the governor determines who will replace him for a particular situation, and this is how the deputy governor would also choose the Assembly, with precisely established tasks, and simply that deputy governor would have the obligation to account for the work of this assembly. In yesterday's opening letter, I heard Minister Djelic say "the deputy governor's place has been overcome". I can accept that, these are arguments for and against, with the same weight as what we're asking for to be a deputy, but if we have deputy ministers, ministerial assistants, why don't we have an institution like the National Bank of Serbia that, with all due respect for the government and the prime minister, I think is one of the most important institutions, because it just runs a complete monetary policy. If the prime minister of Serbia can't get the data on the salaries of the National Bank, then what else can we say about how it's been done so far? We believe that if it were too much, because we are now reading 300,000, 100,000, up to 85,000, or vice governors, let the number of vice governors be reduced for the sake of one deputy governor, because it is someone who will truly be responsible for performing all functions and having the same responsibility in the absence of governors. However, this is a very serious and complex business, and I think that's why there's been so much dust, because it can't be understood that the system state has to move forward and the monetary system has to be preserved, and it can't be personally linked to one name, no matter whose name it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32876	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32877	Please, Daco, if you don't advocate the minister, he won't hear my argument. I know that there is a claim in professional circles that demode is the solution that the National Bank has a deputy governor and we are here at risk of getting into controversy with those who have such an argument, but our intention above all was to solve a few of the most important things in the National Bank of Serbia in our National Bank. Because if we were to respect this analogy until the end, which Mrs. Zivodarka Dacin said here, there is almost no state institution, public enterprise, no ministry that has in this way solved the hierarchy. There are banks that have the first vice governor, and they have no deputy governor, so there are different experiences, and I think the argument we have offered can be accepted by the other MPs. Of course, it would be necessary for the minister to accept it, and then we wouldn't have a situation if it were just one man. We just attended an interpersonal conflict last night, among other things, because both can't control their own ego, and they don't have the right other man in the ministries, or in the first human organs. There should always be someone who's professional, in any other sense in a state, who's prepared to be second. There are simply people who are unable to perform certain tasks or to participate in certain jobs if others are. They're leaders. It is necessary here to find solutions that are such that the governor has such associates who can track him, but who can be his brand when necessary. We saw last night that the minister and the governor needed a whole team of those who branded them, so we wouldn't be able to see what one word defines as a national disgrace. So we suggest that you accept this and a few other amendments that are going towards this and that we resolve this issue this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32878	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr does not want a word, but he wants a word and has a National MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32879	Article 14 refers to the function and powers of the monetary committee. Now I'm going to have to read, hopefully one part of the people read this, and I guess the other part of the MPs didn't even read this, so for reasons that we all understand why it's important to abolish the monetary board, to figure out what function, authority, and what is given in law as a suggestion of what all the monetary board, or governor and its vice governors, means they're three to five, can do, with everything else? The Monetary Committee sets out - "the terms and conditions of issuing short-term securities of value, conditions and the way in which the National Bank of Serbia conducts open-market operations and conducts discount jobs, a policy of granting short-term loans (this is an important issue, as the very important issue has been shown in practice even now and so far that the short-term credit policy in the country is disastrous), the dinar course regime, with the government's consent and independently runs the dinar course policy". Here the government only gives consent, or the minister can give consent on behalf of the government and the matter is over. So, the course regime will determine the governor with his college, the econtamination rate and the way in which he manages his foreign reserves. Foreign reserves, I have to mention, in Serbia they are unquality. They don't have a good capacity and economists know it best. The best-quality foreign reserves are from exports. Serbia has no export. It has a imbalance in foreign trade, it's huge and growing year after year. Production is also lower this year than it was in 2000. I've been listening here, I've kept hearing discussions about how important reconstruction of institutions is, and only then is business. What is this people going to eat? I understand that some young heroes can say that they don't understand what the word economy means. It's easy for them, they care about institutions where they're being set up, where they're going to make decisions. The most important in Serbia are businessmen, people who run the economy, who take care of exports. Why don't we have an export? Because we have this relationship of course, the supposed course, and we need to celebrate the character and the work of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. Exporters have no interest in working this way, nor can they have loans, neither short-term nor medium-term, through which they will develop the process of production and then come into a situation where we have such a monetary board that will have even more severe powers. I don't expect that the trend of economic development will continue, but I expect that we are all conscious enough here to get enough experience through which we can figure out what's important. The economy is more important than the reconstruction of institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32880	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32881	In support of these findings and in the light of this amendment, just to add that this would practically mean that at three or four a.m. here in front of the Chedi traffic light is on, there is no vehicle, you're alone with a cop and you cross the street, and he's charging you with a fine, you've broken, the law says. No vehicles, no public traffic threats. It's a situation with our dinar course and this virtual stability. Just take it easy, it'll all be clear, it'll just come, don't worry, it's just coming for itself, that's for sure. That's how it is with our course. Stable, not covered by foreign exchanges coming from exports, but by foreign exchanges coming to maintain macroeconomic stability, and then 80 million, so 90, so loans, etc. What's the use of that stable dinar? Every day more factories close down, now it's a child's supplement problem, tomorrow there's going to be a pension, the day after tomorrow pay for the cops, the next day for the soldiers, the military faces, and the same for the MPs, like it was two or three months ago, so it's going to patch up everything, because it's one big tractor tire with 17 holes, and how you make a move one, it snaps, you go to the volcanoes, he says -- change the tire, it's all gone. The economy doesn't work, there's no new value, something that comes as a value isn't ours, but someone else's, we gave our market to a foreigner, it spread. You're reconstructing institutions, so people don't live off solutions to court judgments, tax-paying solutions, new electricity bills, etc. I guess you've been living off work, something man created, and it hasn't been in this country since you came to power. That is why these amendments are proposed not to play the government and the National Bank of Serbia anymore, so that there is no spilling from hollow to blank, not Pera, not Mika, is not Laza. If it was a little bit normal, they would have told the public yesterday after the show that they resigned and left. Yesterday I said, we bet here how many ministers are going to resign during the summer break and how much he won't go back to the country. You guys feel like nothing's happening again. I agree, none of ours escaped, ours are all here, just so you know, and they're ready to wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32882	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 14(4). This amendment wants the SRS to indicate that there are too many powers of the monetary committee and that these powers should be reduced in this case. That is why we Serbian radicals propose to make a change at point 4 so much that the monetary committee "administers the policy of the dinar course and proposes to the government the dinar course regime". What does that mean? Not to determine, the difference is large, from what is said, it suggests, because when it proposes that the senior body should then establish a policy with the dinar course regime, and if it says it leads and determines the policy of the dinar course, it means that the only authority is in the hands of the monetary committee. That's why we think it's supposed to be just a proposal to the government and the government is running a dinar course regime. That is why we believe that each organ should have its powers, but also its responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is important, it is an important law for the Republic of Serbia. National MPs of the SRS expect to be given today a report from the National Bank on business, announced on TV last night by National Bank Governor Mladjan Dinkic, that he sent 250 copies to the National Assembly, i.e. President of the National Assembly for each MP, one copy at a time. Perhaps the report will help us improve something compared to the text, there may be some advantages of the report in the policy of making monetary policy so far by the National Bank of Serbia, and there may be places for criticism to the work of the governor of the National Bank and of the work of the National Bank of Serbia as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32884	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32885	If there is no agreement and coordination between commodity and cash funds, there is inflation. In order for it not to happen, the state is smartly arranged, regulates who determines the regime of the dinar course, the course of domestic currency, and whoever implements politics, and that's the rule. That's what experts should know, it's in all the textbooks. Experts are proposing to us, he says - within the framework of monetary policy which is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the monetary committee, especially this monetary committee should - determine the dinar course regime with the consent of the government, and what if there is no consent of the government? Who's solving it? In the previous law, the Federal Assembly is informed, and this is already an alarming situation. It is a competent assembly, not Bojana Lekic. We heard it yesterday, Bojana Lekic arbitration in that conflict. Next, he's running the dinar course on his own. And it should lead an independent policy of the dinar course, but the dinar course regime should determine the government, because it is responsible for implementing and achieving economic policy, which is far beyond monetary policy. You're like this, which the government's instrument put into the hands of the National Bank of Serbia and when the dispute comes up, then we're talking in English, who's previously informed, why he's informed, why he wasn't correct, why he won't call him to New Year's Eve, etc. You understand people, this is a state, it can't do that, it can't do that. Why did you inform Brussels, I waited seven days for you, you didn't answer, you're dishonest, you're a psychopath, etc. Where are you taking the state? The regime of the dinar course must determine one who bears full responsibility for economic policy, that's the rule, because in his hands is fiscal policy. Fiscal policy is not in the hands of the National Bank of Serbia, and last night we heard, tax laws were written by the vice governors and these foreigners. You say here, well, if there are any problems, Brussels will come to solve, we will not solve, nor will the National Assembly solve, nor will the Monetary Committee, nor the Government, nor the National Bank, nor, but Brussels, come to those to whom we have judged in absentia and condemned them, and they are so well-intentioned. Here's how well-intentioned they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32886	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Panajotovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Djura Lazic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32887	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the minister comes, I'll ask him one more question since he didn't hear last night. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, together with counterpart Djur Lazic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. Since it is a very important issue that regulates the independence of the National Bank of Serbia and four amendments submitted to this article, it shows that what I pointed out through this law last night, that what the government did not establish, as an independence of this institution, will be determined by amendments by parliamentary groups and by the approval of representatives of the Government, or the Committee. I can say that it is indeed a nuance that will define how the National Bank of Serbia works and independence. I think that the proposal submitted by the SPS is one of the most rational proposals and the prime minister on behalf of the government should accept this opportunity, not to write a special amendment that does not fit either in language or in this way, as regulated by what the monetary committee is doing. Also, this amendment is related to Article 4. I can say, given that Article 2 provides that the National Bank is independent and independent, which is determined by these and other laws, so it corresponds to the National Assembly, that Article 4 and Article 14 point 4 of the dinar course, with the consent of the Government, determines the monetary committee. We've suggested erasing, self-indicating the policies of the dinar course. It was regulated through the independent work of the National Bank of Serbia. I think this is the solution that we have proposed best, given that Mr. Tomo Panajotovic's translation, which was adopted in the amendment to Article 14, does not agree with the position of the 1st member where he says the monetary committee determines monetary policy, and in particular determines what he says, says, the policy of the dinar course, and we agree that he should independently determine, as well as with the agreement of the dinar course regime. Look, there's two separate things here. So, the monetary committee independently determines the policy of the dinar course that depends on everything. What else does it determine? Why didn't you put it to determine course regimes in accordance with the government's consent? I think you as a journalist, because two are things that are determined by the monetary board... (President: three minutes. I'm done. Both apply the verb. That's why I think this is the solution we have proposed here by the MPs and the SPS MPs' club most acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32888	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate applying for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevan Kesejić. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32889	The amendment to Article 15 of this Law concerns the monetary committee, i.e. Article 15, where it is said that the minister in charge of financial affairs is present at the meetings of the monetary committee, without the right to vote. We felt, the SRS parliamentary group, that it was not imperative for the minister to attend the monetary committee, but we believe that it is necessary in that position, after saying "the board", that the minister in charge of finance affairs could also attend. Now a brief explanation. The finding that the minister must be held at meetings of the monetary committee can be interpreted in several ways. One of these is, the minister may influence that the monetary committee is not working independently and that the minister is pressuring the decisions the monetary committee will make and in accordance with their competences. The power of the minister, and we have heard in the previous amendments submitted by the SRS, must be regulated by other members, not that the minister is now at the meetings of the monetary committee, and what has been missed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to control fiscal policy, the minister is pressuring and scaring members of the monetary board; and where they are governors and vice-governments. In this way, too, it would be possible for the minister, if he himself was intimidated by the governor, because he is threatening him at night, not to attend the sessions, and may when he finds out that the governor is eventually cured of the diseases he is accusing him of. Then think back and come to that board. So he can attend, he has no right to vote, and that way he's completely safe. What happens if, after all, the minister, the current current current current minister, still the governor, plays again in the orchestra, and the tambura breaks. Will the monetary system break? That's why we think they'd preserve both the tambourine and the monetary system and the National Bank... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... to give the minister the opportunity to attend the monetary committee, but not to commit him to it. I think the minister is here to accept this amendment in his interest and for his own safety.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32890	Are any of the other authorised participants in the debate coming forward for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president, SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32891	Since the monetary committee is conceived as the main authority of the monetary authority and, as a rule, no one but the members of that committee should attend, practice knows the situation that allows the finance minister or the other representative of the executive authority to be present unless there is otherwise a mandatory notification after the meeting of the monetary committee. This formulation tabled by the government somehow suggests that it will be by the rule that unless the minister is present, there will be no session of the monetary committee. If you look at the composition of the monetary board, you can see that there's a governor with his vice governors, three to five, if he's five, and that's a total of six. So, six of them are friends, because the vice governors are proposed by the governor. They're in that college every day, and 15 days in this mandatory one. If the minister joins as the seventh, there's the orchestra. It is likely that faxes and other means of communication with Brussels will be held at the meetings of the monetary board. It'll be the decisions of the monetary committee. We only propose by amendment that there is no such clear obligation that the minister must be present at the meetings of the monetary committee, that he has the right to attend, that no one can deny it. We think this amendment, in practice, prevents Bojana Lekic from chairing the monetary committee. In these conditions, it's obvious that this can't work. It's really strange that neither the current governor nor the minister resigned and left it to someone else. Apparently, the source of the conflict hasn't dried up yet, and the consequences are dangerous. I'm saying this because of the consequences. It's long gone on a friendly and business basis, but it can't burden the state. That's what this is about. As you put it, it is likely that the meetings of the monetary committee will be sittings where nothing else will be heard, where the executive and monetary authorities will argue, and the governor will be supported by his vice governors.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32892	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The national MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic together submitted to the title and article of the 16th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. On behalf of the applicants of the amendment, the word has been made by MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here in the O.R. It's a direct proof of his passion. In fact, he's not even interested in the opinions of the MPs, who were very smart here and had the goal of reforming this law. After all, it doesn't matter. With my colleague Zoran Nikolic, in front of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to amend three important things in article 16 of the proposed law. First, it refers to the title. In earlier discussions, through our amendments and amendments to some of our colleagues, you have seen that we have proposed the introduction of a new institution, which is the institution of deputy governor. All the reasons why this was proposed were already spoken by my colleagues and I won't. The second part of the amendment of Article 16 refers to the content of Article 9. We have proposed that Article 9 be deleted, and the whole text of this article be entered as the first position of the new Article 16. A colleague, Dragan Tomic, also said the reasons why it was done. That's purely for technical reasons. We believe it is much more logical that when there is a title that speaks of the governor, deputy governor and vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the first position below should read: "The National Bank of Serbia represents and represents the governor of the National Bank of Serbia (hereinafter the governor)." It is much more logical that it stands in Article 16 than an isolated amendment. Thirdly, most importantly regarding the amendment to Article 16, concerns the conditions prescribed for a potential governor. The government has proposed that conditions that allow someone to compete, i.e. to be appointed governor: to have high professional equipment, appropriate work experience in the areas of economy, finance and banking, and to stand out as an expert or scientific worker in those areas. What does "adequate work experience" mean? That's a very relative term. An appropriate work experience can be interpreted as a working experience from just one day. So it's not even limited here how much work experience it's going to be. It could be one day, it could be ten years. So here's the possibility that even people who by nature can't perform that function are set up this way. We propose that at least working experience be five years in the area of economy, banking and finance, and thus that this person qualify as a possible governor, or deputy governor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32894	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32895	In public these days and previous months, a lot has been said about what kind of experts, experts, are mostly referred to as "expert", and that basically means nothing. Doesn't mean what he was doing, what he was doing, whether he had any previous experience in any area of business and work. When we talk about Article 16, the bill says: "The governor may be elected a person who meets the general conditions for working in the state authorities, has high professional training, adequate work experience in the area of economy, finance and banking and which has been pointed out as an expert or scientific worker in those areas." We said he couldn't have less work experience, and we're adding that he can't have less work experience than five years. For the most ordinary jobs and work tasks in the area of finance, there can be no less working experience than three years. I'm talking about people with college. For people who operate these bodies, the time spent in such services cannot be less than six to eight years. So someone who has dealt with such a kind of action, and when it comes to this kind of action, or the place of governor or deputy governor in the National Bank, or vice governor, we suggest that he be a deputy governor, because it has full logic and should be elected by this parliament, not by the authority of the governor to choose his own three to five associates and then hold a session of the monetary committee, or a college where he will lead the politics of the National Bank of Serbia. When I mention even later members who speak of conflict of interest, I don't know how you're going to get into a situation to propose a person who has no action on the Finance Committee? Since I'm a member of the Finance Committee, I will indeed, when someone whispers to someone and says the name and name of someone who will be proposed as a candidate, I will look at this law and ask for all that to be delivered to me to make clear whether I am in favour or against the governor. I think you've put yourself a heavy fence here, because today it's hard to find a businessman, a banker, a man who's been doing this job, who's been working in this area for a while, who has no action. I was given one layman's answer - sell it. They'll sell to the wife, the kids, and we'll get back in a situation where we have a conflict of interest that's in place again. I think this is an unnecessary thing and it's important that a certain experience involves certain years of work in an area. Don't get any more experts for something. Today Serbia has the most experts. Just before I listened to an expert on the Privatisation Committee. He needs to learn to shave first, and then he has to talk about some important issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32896	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32897	Just a few words about the second part of my predecessor's amendment, which refers to an appropriate work experience. That right doesn't mean anything, because that means that whoever decides can, by his own free judgment, say "an appropriate work experience is one day, 10 years, 40 years". An exceptional expert proven in the area, so an expert in some area is also Natasa Kandic, including Tom Fila. The legal norm does not go what could be swept under "taste", because taste cannot be debated. It can be delicious or untasteful, but it's not discussed. As taught by the example that happened to us in October 2000, we are all agreed today that the two conditions he had to meet as the pretender of the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia were to know he held the gun, to tell the media nicely that he had been invited by predecessor Dusan Vlatkovic to enter and to have the support of the IMF. As for the other conditions, prescribed by the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, he did not meet any of them. Not one. Nor was his topic in college from an area related to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, nor did he have any significant work experience other than an assistant, and I guess he also mastered later, and that stopped everything. How's our practice? Earlier, there was a situation, 70 years ago, that we had as governors of the National Bank of Serbia and people who absolutely had no professional touch points with economy and banking. Then the monetary system was very stable, a currency-priced dinar, in that old Europe, and there were no bigger problems. Today, those anecdotes are also read as they negotiated and provided loans to that Serbia, so that we can wait until the May rain falls. If this stays like this, then we're really going to get this joint of experts, who don't know what a carrot is, and what a lamb is. We saw experts talking last night. Who can give a hand now and swear they're experts?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32898	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of Natasa Milojevic and others. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment and the Legislative Committee did not deliver an opinion. Does Natasha Milojevic want a word? For all MPs, if a list with a group of MPs is delivered, I would be asked to be provided with an explanation for the amendments. In this case, it would be Natasha Milojevic. It's okay. The word has a People's MP, Olga Kircanski, on behalf of the MPs, but for the next time, I ask you to provide me with an explanation for the amendment in the case of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32899	I think it is only a slip, because a report of the Legislative Committee simply missed an opinion on this amendment, so in the event that we are still in a situation where the Assembly should declare itself on this amendment, I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to, as we have been, that this is a failure not to ask for a majority of the total number of MPs, support this amendment during the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32900	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32901	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to replace "the President of the Republic" in Article 16(1). And in the second sentence of "adequate work experience" is replaced by the words "at least 10 years of work experience". Interestingly, this 16th article has caused the biggest controversy in the public and the media in general, how and how the governor of the National Bank of Serbia should be elected. The promoter predicted the governor to be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Finance Committee. We want this amendment to take over the role of the motionary president of the Republic, and that would be a precedent, that one committee, one body of the National Assembly, proposes the governor of the National Bank. We have heard that this is not exactly represented and you do not have practice in other parliaments around the world. Secondly, a second position has been defined unclearly, where it says that the governor can be elected a person who meets the general conditions for working in state authorities, has high expertise, adequate work experience in areas etc. The relevant work experience was inappropriate for a legislator, who had no obligation, could stand because it was not clearly defined. We, in order to fix this bad solution proposed by the promoter, have replaced this word "adequate work experience" that does nothing and does nothing with words -- "at least 10 years of work experience". It is an idea that someone would be an expert in economics or finance or banking, that it is necessary to spend at least 10 years on these jobs, in order to reach some level that would qualify him to be governor of the National Bank of Serbia. This solution by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group would, of course, cause all the doubts that were in the debate last night at the meeting of ministers and former governors at a TV duel. That is why I propose that the Assembly accept and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32902	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32903	Ten years of work experience, however, is a guarantee that it is a serious person, that he must have learned something in ten years, and that's some minimum we can accept, given what function he has to perform and what jobs the governor has to do. The problem with Article 16 is when he is proposing. It states here that the election promoter is the working body of the National Assembly, and it does not even show who is driving the initiative towards that committee. Does the board call a competition or what Labus said the other day, "Good afternoon, I'm the one and that one, I heard you need a governor." You can't see it. Since the governor of the National Bank and the Prime Minister are on the same level, and given the situation that in 1990, when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, the Constitution of the SFRY was in force and the law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the national banks of the socialist republics and autonomous provinces was applied, there was no need to regulate the issue of the National Bank of Serbia in a different way, and the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, these higher legal acts regulated it. Now, the one who participated in writing the 1990 Constitution, and in the meantime changed the turkey, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia judge Vučetic argues that the governor cannot propose the president of the National Assembly because it is not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution. It is not explicitly stated, but according to some analogy and logic of things, and taking into account the circumstances under which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted, only the President of the Republic can be officially proposing the election of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. There's nothing else, there's no organ. When a congregation working body proposes, then it means that the National Assembly is proposing to itself. One who decides on someone's proposal cannot be a proposing, and therefore it is necessary to propose that the candidate for the National Bank of Serbia be the president of the Republic of Serbia, with all the risks of the fact that we do not have the President of the Republic and that we will not have him in due time. And in addition to this claim goes exactly what the government has accepted, it's the majority that the governor is elected with.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32904	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The next amendment to the same Article 16 was submitted jointly by MPs Živodarka Dacin and Velimir Zivojinovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. In the name of the applicant of the amendment, the word has a folk letter from Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32905	The Honorable Presidency, dear fellow Members of the People. Comrade Panayotovic, I suggest that you be the deputy governor of the National Bank, all of your amendments have passed, you have given full participation. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs, counterpart Velimir Zivojinovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 16 which would consist of two parts. I'd like to ask these 55 people, as long as they're in the O.R., to hear from each other. I'm not the kind of man who's going to ask for a quorum, but give us some seriousness, to bring this session to an end, so we can go on a vacation that is clearly needed by everyone. So this amendment consists of two parts. In the first part, we are asking for practical experience from at least ten years of age. Please, let's not make legal projects, from man to man, whether someone will be governor or not. When the law was broken in its time, so after the five-octobar revolutionary events, juniors, now leaving Governor Dinkic, with long pipes entered the National Bank and became governor, there was no problem that he had virtually no minimum conditions to perform that function, and I can't believe that in a complete, then joint DOS, there was no more competent person who could have become governor. In the government's pre-plan, there was once again a working experience of 10 years, so that in the final version it would be deleted, because in the meantime it was the story -- it could be that Dinkic stayed, could be not stay, could be G-17+, and might not be. Please get serious. If you have to have at least three years of working experience in the profession in order to be head of the department or head of the department, then what can we say about the governor of the National Bank? And that's not meant to be a full-time job, but if someone is to be chief of surgery, he has to be at least three years surgeon, and he can also be a 15-year general practitioner, he can't be chief of surgery with a year's work experience. Not to compromise the importance, absolutely both responsibilities are immeasurable, but simply, the governor of the National Bank is the governor. What we want is to delete attitude three, because it says -- the governor to whom he has suspended his mandate continues to do business until the election of a new governor. You didn't accept that there was a deputy governor who could react like this. You do not accept this amendment to delete it. The man resigned, and he won't. Who is it that can force him to continue to be governor until a new one is chosen or I say other situations. So I really ask you to think again about all this, we have time, whether it's tomorrow or the next day, when the time comes to vote, so let's vote in the interest of the National Bank of Serbia, and therefore all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32906	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32907	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several amendments have been tabled, trying to fix the law in such a way that the governor is assumed to have a 10-year working experience. To make a difference, what it takes to own someone from school and from specialization to be a candidate at all. First of all, he needs to have an economic college, and it's possible that someone else should, and he should have a specialist internship, volunteering or some other institution, which at least looks like the National Bank. It would be necessary, if everyone were already talking about experts, that he had time and opportunity to be somewhere abroad or elsewhere in this area, to show, then with expert references here to the National Assembly, come out with his character and work to gain the trust of the National Assembly and become governor. All this stuff I've been talking about is impossible to achieve in less than 10 years since college, if we want well to the National Bank, if we want a good governor and if we want a good state. There are other rules, the governor needs wisdom, not a characteristic of youth, although youth itself is not a limiting factor, on the contrary, in other affairs, but for the governor it is necessary to choose a man who has a certain experience, life and expertise, who has references to which I have spoken and with full responsibility can carry such a delicate task. And that there is no delusion, there is no country the size of ours, more than seven or eight people who can be candidates for governor. If we come to this thing seriously, if we approach this thing as the so-called governor, I'm talking about Mr. Dinkic, it's become something else. That's why I think, given the several parliamentary clubs that have such an amendment, that this amendment should be accepted, because it is hypocritical to say that because we don't pass the law to be replaced by the governor, now in the conditions of the governor's election we don't predict as many years as he doesn't have. We all know that he is no longer the governor, so let's bring in someone new who meets the conditions, who will be legitimately chosen and who will be able to do this job in the interest of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32908	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32909	We are talking about working experience, as a condition of choice, and probably as a condition for establishing a working relationship, and when there is no basic work experience, so let it be called appropriate, then we have a situation where a man without adequate workexecution has performed and still performs his duties as governor, but he doesn't know, because he has no working experience, that there are other rules in these jobs, so we have a situation where he has been addressing institutions, earlier than Labus, and since Labus is no longer vice president, then directly the National Bank of Yugoslavia, so the laws on debt are passed. In addition to the law, we also get the conditions we need to meet, so they tell us - the price of electricity, pensions, children's allowances, persecution of former authorities, budget control, etc. and he blindly fulfils those conditions as our country's official negotiator with abroad, so let's compare the governor to one who was a representative of that government, I mean at the time of Milka Planinc, who had been holding debt reprogramming talks for three years, and that was quite like what Radovan Karadzic was doing when he negotiated in front of Dayton. Negotiated, taken care of. We have haste here, and at the same time the government is looking for money for some other needs, and then whoever gives money from abroad says, where is the money? We give money to each other, and there's no money. If there was a working experience, an adequate work experience, that would never have happened. They'd at least be bigger masters if they cheated on that West, but they're not, they can't cheat on them, they're complaining about that same West. They say-- you gave money for stability, and we need money for this second one over here. Where's the money? So, a TV duel of two exes can end up very dangerous, because the West is very dangerous when it comes to their money. There's a money dispute here, it's not about emotions or just emotions, it's about money. If we're not able to get the story out to the end of the money, make sure those who brought you here finish the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32910	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word on behalf of the applicants of the amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Do any of the other authorized participants want the word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Rajko Baralic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32911	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia, along with counterpart Rajko Baralic, I have submitted an amendment to article 19. A bill of this law. The government's proposal says that the National Bank of Serbia has a governor and three to five vice governors. The SPS parliamentary group believes that the National Bank, besides the governors, should also have a deputy governor, assuming that there are vice governors as well. On the need for the National Bank to have a deputy governor's convincing argument given by Socialist Party of Serbia MP Zivodarka Dacin, explaining amendments to Articles 13 and 16. In view of the complexity and scope of the tasks carried out by the National Bank as a central bank, as a central institution of the financial and monetary system of the country and as the sole issue of the bank, it is indeed logical and should have besides the governors and deputy governors, normally without prejudice and the need to have more vice governors. This is analogous to the Government, and every ministry has a minister, deputy minister and assistant minister. We certainly have ministries where there is far less scope and complexity of jobs and tasks compared to the National Bank. That's why it's a little surprising yesterday's explanation for Minister Djelic when he says the issue has been overcome, and we know the world's practice, that many central banks have deputies. The SPS parliamentary group finds it not a good solution proposed by the Government in Article 20 to appoint one of the vice governors to replace him in his absence. The appointment of deputy governors should be regulated by law, with clearly defined functions to be performed by him. The law also needs to regulate the way he chooses, the conditions he needs to meet to be elected deputy governor. In fact, we have proposed this by this amendment: that the deputy governor should replace the governor in his absence, to act as governor if the governor ceases his post before the term of office, whether or not he has withdrawn himself, whether he has been resolved, removed, etc. Normally, it should also carry out other tasks that should be clearly foreseen by the Statute of the National Bank. We further suggested that the deputy governor be elected and resolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, meaning this assembly as the most legislative body of the country. We also suggested that the candidate for deputy governor should meet the same conditions as the governor in terms of professional qualifications and work experience. Due to the introduction of the Deputy Governor's office, less than one vice governor can be named. If it's proposed by the government to have three to five vice governors, it doesn't have to be filled in by all five, it can be four, and not to increase the number of these executives in the National Bank. After being said, it is reasonable that the National Bank has a deputy governor. It is not the same as the official deputy governor, elected by this assembly, with precise conditions and tasks, compared to the proposal that one of the vice governors perform the post on the governor's proposal. It is known what authority is when elected by the Assembly, which is when appointed by the governor. I think that all the conditions have really been met for this amendment to be supported, with the proposal and the explanations that I have set out and that have been given in the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32912	Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized participants? No, I don't. This morning we finish our work. We begin the afternoon session at 15.00 hours with an amendment to Article 20, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic, and a session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held in the hall on the third floor at 14.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32913	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please insert your identification cards to determine the quorum. We continue to work with discussion in detail. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do the applicants want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else applying for a word? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The National MPs Đura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravić submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is there a word report? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32914	The Honored Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, on behalf of the SPS Group of fellow Members Maravić and I, we tabled an amendment to Article 20. This is just part of a set of amendments to the SPS that we tried to improve the proposed text of the law and to technically edit it, because we think this law is very important, important for the whole country, and I can even say that it is strategically important. That's why we submitted this amendment. This amendment shall be attached to Article 19 and Article 13, when it comes to the election of deputy governors. We Socialists believe it is necessary to elect, besides the governor, the deputy governor and the deputy governor of the National Bank of Serbia to elect this assembly. I think it is less important for the governor to propose, and the Council is choosing a vice governor, that it is much more important that the Assembly chooses a vice governor who will, in absentia, replace the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. The amendment relating to Article 20 is prescribed in the text of Article 19 of the proposed law. If we respect a set of amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, then this amendment has full meaning, because it fully regulates the appointment of a vice governor, provided that there is a deputy governor. So the text of Article 20. The bill reads: "The governor appoints a vice governor who replaces the governor at the beginning of his term if he is prevented from performing his post." We propose to delete this text without adopting, instead of the proposed text, an amendment transposing the text from Article 19. The bill, provided that article 19 defines the election of deputy governors, as well as counterpart Zivodarka Dacin, which was discussed by counterpart Radojko Petric, explaining the amendment to Article 13 of this law. I think the overall engagement of the SPS, with all the amendments attached to this chapter, will contribute greatly to better technical regulation of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32915	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32916	I would just like to point out to the promoter what problems he will have in practice with the proposed provision of Articles 19 and 20, regardless of how these amendments go with Articles 19 and 20, if this idea remains here. The National Bank of Serbia's council, by some definition, would have to be a control body. The monetary committee, as stated in the bill, is the governor with three or five more of the same versions. In this bill, the Council chooses the National Assembly, the Vice-Governors choose the Council. Practically, so what the National Assembly decided in the election of governors confirms is the lower authority of the Council. That's the governor times three times five. There will be problems that the Monetary Committee must be unique, because the governor has proposed them all, and the Council has chosen them. As a congregation, we are far from the Monetary Committee, we have no right to even initiate a resolution procedure. We do not have the authority to pass what is in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly to the Council. The problem was also with the National Bank of Yugoslavia Council. At one point, when it was necessary to resolve a governor, the council couldn't meet for several months, let alone form a proposal. It is a much better solution for the vice governors to choose the National Assembly on a proposal from the governors, so that there may be a conflict, professional and other nature, between governors and vice governors, and all in the interest of better quality work of the National Bank of Serbia. So, we've confirmed the same thing several times -- governor of the Monetary Committee, governor of the Council, because the council doesn't have that control function, see for yourself what you've plotted to be the authority of the Council. Those politely removed from the National Assembly, the MPs can launch an initiative to replace the government, but they can't touch the governor. It is not the independence of the governor's work, it can only be an anarchy, and it will be a major problem and a future governor of the National Bank of Serbia and a general problem in the work of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32917	National MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, also spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Amendment 20 has been related to several amendments, submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia, which relate to the introduction of functions that are not foreseen by the bill, which is the deputy governor. In order for this hierarchical analogy to be made out somehow, it does not choose the assistant minister of the assembly, but rather is chosen by the government on a proposal from the minister. We would not be able to get into that trap if the Assembly were to declare itself to the Vice-Governors, because definitely the governor must be a man believed in normal conditions, when we have a normal law and a normal environment where the National Bank has the place and role of an independent institution, to the extent that this independence is possible in accordance with law and national needs. I think the amendment, which was submitted by colleagues Djura Lazic and Ljubisa Maravić, is meaningful, that there are elements to deserve your attention and support it, and once again I say it is about several related members. Obviously, although we have suggested that a deputy governor be elected, that means certain corrections in several members. With that in mind, I ask your support to accept this amendment. In the end, let me say one thing. It has happened that a number of MPs, in a way that is not like gentlemen above all, reacts to the exit of the National Assembly president from parliament. Today, among other things, the SPS parliamentary group has been identified as one of the groups involved. I assure you that this has not happened in the manner spoken, and if it is, as a gentleman and as a gentleman, I apologize to the President of the National Assembly if she understands that one of the SPS MPs has reacted in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32919	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Joca Arsic and Milan Jankovic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment proposing amendments in Articles 22, 28, 29, 31 and 93. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32920	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are several amendments to the debate on the need or necessity of introducing a deputy governor instead of a vice governor. These amendments, which I have made together with my colleague Milan Jankovic, and on behalf of the SPS, we would like to begin this set, starting with the amendments to Articles 13, 19 and 20, to be agreed with the other members of this law, which do not provide for such an opportunity to be elected by the governor and the deputy governor. I think this is a mistake, the governor should have deputies, people can come into different situations so they can't perform their duties. This is where Article 20 provides for the governor to appoint a vice governor who replaces him at the beginning of his term. But it's not the same weight, and it's not the same thing that's being replaced by a vice governor who's going to be elected by the Council, and we're proposing that a deputy governor chooses this assembly by the same procedure as the governor's choice. We therefore believe that the one who replaces it must have similar or specific weight as the governor. I don't speak personally. I don't think this hurts, nothing bothers, will bring in the harmony and the governor and his deputy, and there's no need for him to specifically appoint one of his vice governors to replace him. Hence, the one whom he appoints is directly under his will, desire, or favor. This is where the authority elected by the governor is proposed and elected by the deputy governor. We don't think there's any valid reason why this doesn't work out. The Legislative Committee has already said, if we already have four or five, or three or four vice governors, why don't we have a governor, deputy governor and three vice governors? We don't think it's a complete distraction, and it gives one certainty and ensures that this assembly has jurisdiction over both the governor and the deputy governor. If God forbidded the governor from doing his job for a long time, it would be a vice governor, who in this case would not be elected by this congregation. If a young woman is chosen, provided she has the right to leave because of pregnancy, childbirth and other things, and what to do then. He's got to deal with that vice governor a little longer as a vice governor, instead of having deputy governors who can do it and do it in a good way. I didn't say it could be two.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32921	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to Article 25, where I suggest that the Council has seven members instead of five. In view of the complexity of the functions that this advice should perform, this is, for example, first of all. The adoption of the National Bank's financial plan, the adoption of the annual account, I think this proposal is incorrect and is not good, because already in this next Article 25, the Council meetings are said to be held if at least three members are present, and the Council makes decisions by majority vote. It means that there are enough and two members to make such important decisions as the adoption of the financial plan, the annual account, the selection of an authorised auditor, etc. I think our proposal is correct - at least seven members. It could be more. What is important and interesting is that these days the Council, as the National Bank's authority, was under discussion, and Dinkic pointed out in particular that the education of this council would pose a threat to the independence of the National Bank. I find that statement incorrect. Dinkic would like to be independent of all state institutions in the country, and on the other hand, and how he is dependent on various international financial organisations, such as the IMF, the World Bank. On last night's TV duel, Djelic and Dinkic, we clearly saw that they are being persecuted for what the text is, which is a better translation, and what is the essence of this relationship between the current governor and the finance minister, that both are the only performers of the international financial organisation's mandate. All these international organisations, the World Bank, the IMF, for these two and a half years since DOS was in power, have done us no good. It is simply that they have increased the price of electricity, it is almost incomprehensible to the citizens of Serbia that the IMF determines how much electricity there will be, what pensions will be, what social benefits will be, whether domestic production should be put out, and their requirement is that everything produced in this country should be extinguished. On this issue both Djelic and Dinkic are alike, in a way they will pass, Dinkic a little earlier, Djelic a little later.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32923	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32924	This amendment is an opportunity to point out that the adoption of amendments and the adoption of the proposed text of Article 23 does not, in fact, solve anything. The problem lies in Article 24. What is stated is that it represents the authority of the National Bank of Serbia's National Bank Council, in fact, concerns the authority of the managing authority. Last night, we had an opportunity to hear that this council had primarily a control function, or that it was a supervisory authority. If it's the supervisory authority, then he doesn't adopt the financial plan. If it is a supervisory authority, then it does not adopt an annual account, then it does not establish a single tariff for the National Bank of Serbia, then it does not establish a list of special powers and responsibilities and could suggest who audits the National Bank of Serbia's final account. The dilemma whether the Council should have five members, together with the President, or seven, is not of crucial importance to the quality of this law, but the idea is not bad, because it certainly lowers or increases the price of work that must be done through this council, especially if the members of the Council have to meet, in terms of the election, all the conditions that are prescribed for the governor, and as conditions are given for the governor, we can guess what that advice will be, who will make it up. It will be made up of some professors of economic college, an economic institute, experts from NGOs, or another IMF transmission, perhaps possibly by controllers, not to pay twice the same as those from the West, and perhaps a guarantee of their funds. The guarantee for better work of the National Bank of Serbia in this way cannot be provided because there is no control here and therefore I return to the initial sentence that I said today - this is all fixed in function, shaking up, nothing was born.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32925	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32926	In part, I respect Mr Krasic's argument on supervision, but the basic urgency in proposing this amendment was to increase the number of members of the Council. I note that Slovenia has nine members of the council, that some other countries in the environment have 9 to 11, and that this works in a more quality way, with a number of people who, with their references, professional or other, are able to be conditionalally adequate control of the governor and the National Bank in general. That is why the amendment that Professor Bora Stanimirovic and Toma Busetic submitted was only one in a series trying to correct this law in the way we experience the need to make a law on the National Bank. This is an amendment that allows Parliament, in a sense, to exert a greater influence on the governor, in terms of control, and on the National Bank in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32927	Anybody else answer for a word? There's no application. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The representative and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32928	The Honorable Presidency, respected fellow MPs, the Socialist People's Party concept regarding the authorities of the National Bank of Serbia suggests that there are certain imbalances in this proposal. There are three bodies under the bill, to remind the public, the Monetary Committee of the National Bank, the Governor and the National Bank Council. In our view, there is a huge imbalance and discrepancy in the powers and the way of the elections, on the one hand the Monetary Committee, on the other hand the National Bank Council. The monetary committee makes up, under the bill of law, governors and vice governors. According to us, they are experts, craftsmen, prominent experts, but those who need to implement the policy that someone else has established. As an individual, the governor has great authority and therefore we believe that the focus of decision-making at the National Bank of Serbia should be in one authority. We think that the National Bank's advice is sufficient, and therefore we suggest that it in the work round of its work joins the affairs and tasks it has and the monetary committee and the advice itself. We have proposed the abolition of the monetary committee because we believe that the council should have prominent businessmen, financial experts from business, business banks, science spheres, and that they should, together with the governor, create a policy of the National Bank. We also think that government members should find a place in the National Bank's advice, that this body is really strong and that it is the creator of the politics of the National Bank of Serbia. For these reasons, we propose the abolition of the monetary committee and the formation of only one body, that is, the advice, and in that sense, we have proposed an amendment to give the council the powers of Article 14 which so far had a monetary committee and of Article 24 that has so far had the advice.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32929	MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32930	It is good to note this lack of the bill, that there is practically no control body, regardless of whether the monetary committee as a board of governors will be able to empower so much, to lead and create monetary policy, or to give it to the National Bank's advice. There may be one and the other, but we lack an organ to control. According to the draft law, Article 24 does not provide a minimum guarantee that the council is in control, but is appointed as the managing body of the legal person, only for those tasks where legal obligations are to be met in respect of the final account and certain organisational matters. We need a control body in the National Bank of Serbia because it needs to control whether the governor and the monetary committee, if this concept is accepted, are working in accordance with the law. The second thing is whether all decisions, orders, recommendations, letters, interventions by the National Bank of Serbia were timely, socially justified and comprehensive, and therefore it is necessary for the members of that supervisory authority, the supervisory authority, to be experts who would question the profession, which means whether the governor or monetary committee decided to increase the bank's reserves at the time when it was necessary to move on the market or did so at the time he wanted to block the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to prevent it from implementing economic policy. There's no law on that. It's a matter of profession, but you don't give it in article 24. You think that through the adoption of the final account this control, the amount of monetary mass, secondary markets, the creation of new money, etc. can be carried out. We don't have that organ that controls the profession. What you've given the council's jurisdiction is not the control of the profession. This is the problem, which anyone will be able to charge the government at any time, to accuse the governor, or to go to the International Monetary Fund for opinion. No one needs a member like this 24. With this Article 24, there is no need for Dinkic to be angry. He's got turbo powers. If there are five or seven members, it doesn't matter at all. There is no one who controls his profession, whether the operation on the open market has performed first-time and quality or not, so all the banks have gone bankrupt, and they are preparing for bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32931	The word is from MP Dragan Tomic, deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32932	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday and today, as well as other parliamentary groups, we have tried to point to the essence of this law, and it seems to me that it is largely depicted in Article 24, or in the proposal for what is the function of the National Bank of Serbia's advice. As serious people, and I hope someone understands the importance of the control function in the National Bank of Serbia, it is not seriously established in the bill. What it means is that it adopts a financial plan, a final account, to determine the percentage, to determine the salary of the governor and his deputies. It doesn't mean anything. It's less of a function than the chairman of the ruling board of Serbia's Elektroprivreda. The essentials remain on the monetary board. We just got word of a turbo-authority here. Exactly for this turboman, who calls himself an expert, and I'm talking about Mladjan Dinkic. Just to pick him up and get these powers anyway, he didn't ask anyone for anything. When he went in there with automatic rifles, he said he was called Vlatkovic. Looks like it is, as soon as there's nothing about Vlatkovic. However, there is nothing and about some other thugs I spoke about earlier, which have done Serbia harm. One party more or less, but Serbia is very fortunate. Here when we pointed to Article 24 we asked that essential powers, full essence and full power receive advice from the National Bank of Serbia. Why should he get it? Because he'll be able to answer to someone, and you said in law that the monetary committee is doing everything alone, asking no one, and then sending parliament to inform, like little children sitting here. What kind of information will that be? Who's going to tell and tell in that information doesn't matter at all. The key and essential thing is who's going to print the money, what's the credit policy, what's the foreign exchange regime. It doesn't exist anywhere. The National Bank Council will adopt a financial report, a final account, etc. Those are ridiculous powers. Here I really appeal to the need for certain control. If this parliament cannot control all this, at least let it do the advice of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32933	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petrovic and Milos Nesovic. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32934	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, together with MP Milos Nesovic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. A bill of this law. In this article, the Government proposed that meetings of the National Bank Council be held if at least three members attend them. Further in this article, the government also suggested that decisions be made at the National Bank council meetings by majority of the members present, which means that there would be full decisions if only two council members voted for them. If we consider all the issues discussed, how complex they are, how important they are, really simply that man could not believe that the government could have made such a proposal, because it is extremely inappropriate that only two members could vote. I remind you that the SPS parliamentary group has submitted, and we have just heard this, the amendment that the number of members of the National Bank Council is increasing to seven and we have heard a broader explanation than MPs Tomo Busetic and Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of our group. In fact, the amendment required that the number of members from five be increased to seven. In Article 25, which I am talking about and have submitted to the amendment, we propose that meetings of the National Bank Council can be held if at least five members attend, not three, as proposed by the Government. Also, this amendment suggests that decisions can be of full importance if they were voted by most members of the council of the total number. In particular, this means that decisions can be of full importance if they were voted by at least four members of the council. I think it is clear to everyone that accepting the government's proposal that decisions can only be made by two members of the council would be improvising the work and deciding the advice of the National Bank of Serbia as one important body of the National Bank. It would be a compromise of the government of the National Bank of Serbia as a central bank, as the country's only emissions and as the country's most major institutions for financial stability. I think the conditions have been met for the amendment to be accepted and for decisions to be made by most members of the total number of members of the council.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32935	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32936	As a rule, the central bank is a serious institution in both political and professional terms, and whatever the composition of the National Bank's advice as a central bank, all decisions should be made by qualified majority. It is impossible for a simple majority to make decisions, even when it comes to decisions and jobs referred to in Article 24. Of course, it should be borne in mind the provision of Article 27 that these people who are members of the council receive compensation and she, believe me, will not be so small. He'll probably be at the pay level of a deputy or assistant to some business bank. You can guess which amount they'll be, so if there's some small money going on here from one parliamentary group to another, then be sure, where big money is spinning, big money will also be voted on by these decisions provided for in Article 24. I'll give you just one example; some exporters came into a situation where they were frozen funds in one bank, and it was necessary to change only one member of the Foreign Exchange Act and the Bank Act, in order for these exporters to achieve what they had been frozen. A member of the National Bank of Yugoslavia's council, a professor, accepted a proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Affairs Act, charged it as a member of the council. I've only given you one example, of course, that's time-loathing by the Assembly and it's not done as he imagined and promised to the exporters, but rest assured, given the functioning of the National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, council members will significantly increase their price and the far higher price will be than the one prescribed in Article 27. Don't forget, a good portion of the experiment comes from the Danko Djindjic Economic Institute.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32937	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32938	Mr Radojko Petric, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, proposed an amendment to Article 25. To say once again and to ask for your support, therefore, it is related to the previous members, we believe that it makes sense to increase the number of members of the council and that there is a lot of sense that decisions on the council are made by most of the total number of elected members of the council, so that improvisation does not occur and that two or maybe three people, depending on how elected members are in the council, would make important decisions by the National Bank of Serbia, by the state of Serbia and by all its economic entities and citizens. Of course, I know that what Mr Krasic was talking about can always be problematic, if any of the members of the council are controlled by some business, financial, mass or any other lobby in the country and that certain decisions taken by the council can be made by either one of these lobbies or one of the members of certain lobbies to make a top concession and that, in a way that is seemingly legal, their companies or those personally earning a pay-per-view money. We must come from a pretense of trust and we must, with full responsibility as Parliament, join the election of members of the council, as well as the governor himself, in order to warn, in a sense, one such possibility, even though it always exists. I must say, if it's any consolation, it exists in the central banks of other states. A large number of affairs stem from exactly one subtle act by members of the central bank council in the world, we can read that in the newspaper. Unfortunately, we have a chance to see it here, too, when a lobby that is no longer the governor's will loses one bank in just one day, even though it is a highly unprofessional, non-critical relationship to the potential of the bank, its depositors and what it really represents. I wouldn't elaborate wider, because it brings me into one nasty story, nasty for all of us, as a people and a state, so a member of the council should be a man who's more responsible for a degree than the governor himself. It doesn't have to be more professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32939	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32940	This whole set of amendments that are currently being discussed talk about the function and strengthening the function of the council. The amendment has its full meaning, in all this it is his desire to strengthen the role, importance and function of the National Bank of Serbia's advice. But what we are, in practice and application, in function, means that Serbia is generally known as the most influential lobby, not political parties, but the lobby of importers. How they get guarantees for importing goods, which credentials they give, which mortgages they take. Today, we had a deputy governor, or vice governor Jelasic, on another topic, but we talked about how to secure the guarantees of banks. The man simply answered - for the word. You can get the bank's guarantee on word, you don't have to pawn anything, no property, no capital, no property, no real estate, no company of your own, you can get the word guarantee of the bank. What she's providing you with. It provides you with a high level of income, a high rate of profit. How to control such things at all with this bank, where the self-will of the existing governor, who is directly in charge of business and business banks, is evident, determines the credit and monetary policy and business of business banks in Serbia. As it has control functions over them, it can perform control functions and determine when what happened in one of the banks. If we don't have any control over the money fund in the function of the council, he can do more than that now, so we're going to be strengthened by the function of the import lobby, which is definitely going to be able to do whatever he wants right now. We have a level of prices in the public sector already around some European standards, although our salaries are 10 to 15 times lower, but the price level is high. So, imports can be done without a problem, import revenues, capital from the imports that are earned, it's big. What's going on with the foreign exchanges in the country? The foreign exchanges are leaving, consumer goods are being bought, even what is in abundance in Serbia, we buy milk and dairy products, and we cannot provide milk premiums to be paid to farmers. We also see on television these days that milk is massively spilled and that two or three days a week are being bought. We can't order in Serbia, maybe someone can, that cows don't give milk every day, but that every second or third day they give milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32941	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ) The amendment was submitted to Article 25 by MP Srdja Popovic. The proposing representative and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Finance submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Zivodarka Dacin. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32942	Ms. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a relatively easy amendment to decide on, since we have proposed that a deadline be set for the National Bank's advice to report on its work to the National Assembly. We suggested that it be by the end of February of the month for the previous year. In general, it is an interesting story about this National Bank council, starting with the deadline of the members of the council, and for example, Article 23 says that members of the council are elected for a period of five years, and in Article 93, the transitional provisions say that the president of the council is elected for five years, and one member is elected for a period of four years, one for a period of three, one for a period of two, and one for a period of one year. When we look at the responsibility of the council, then the need for the National Assembly to be familiar with its decisions over the course of one year through a report on the work of the council. Among other things, because the council is considering a financial plan, a work report for the previous year, but determines the amount of compensation the National Bank of Serbia charges for its services to its users. These services are not insignificant and their price is low, so there is a need to discuss it more often, and especially with a member who regulates the council to start an initiative on the change of governor of the National Bank. If we have determined that the National Bank must submit a report to the National Assembly on its work for the previous year by 30 June at the latest, the monetary committee, or the National Bank, must prepare a report on the situation in the banking and financial system by 30 December at the latest, if the National Bank has to prepare a draft financial plan for the following year by 31 December at the latest and deliver it to the Assembly for consideration, then it is natural that the Council has a deadline. Therefore, the end of February was also taken because it was the end of the final account for the previous year and it would be perfectly reasonable to accept this amendment and thus to put the National Assembly in a position before considering the overall report on the work of the National Bank, there are some other indicators of what the situation in the National Bank of Serbia is like both in terms of staff and in terms of making governors and vice governors. We know a big story about what the profits are, and among other things, the council has this authority to determine the amount of earnings made by the governors and vice governors of the National Bank... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) So not everything is in the financial report, but also in some other details that are important for the overall view of the situation in the National Bank of Serbia. It is therefore necessary to establish the time limit to which the report must be submitted to the National Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32943	Does anyone else sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32944	Obviously, this amendment is one of the attempts to give some new soul to the advice of the National Bank of Serbia and the amendment sets a time limit for the council to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on its work. However, we heard last night that the National Bank has already delivered a report, but MPs have not received it yet. He'll probably get it in a few days. It is not the matter of the law, but as it is said, the law needs to be amended, so this amendment should probably be complemented by a provision within which time the Secretary of the National Assembly is required to share those reports with the MPs. What will certainly not be in this work report, which concerns the monetary policies and work of the National Bank of Serbia, certainly will not be data on who bought the Mercedes of the Belgrade Bank, whether someone from the National Bank of Serbia; who bought the art paintings, because there is simply no such authority and authority of the council, and through the control and adoption of the final account, cannot be established there. Even in the existing composition of this monolithic appearance of the National Bank of Serbia, where the governor is with friends, we only have one man who knows the banking business. That's one lady, Vice Governor, and she's teaching them how to do that job. We have people with dual citizenship, as Mr. Pal Shandor would say, says a stranger. We have some people who have come from abroad, and we have people from the IMF who have it all under control and they run the National Bank of Serbia, practically. It won't be in this report, because it doesn't do advice. I'm only saying this because I want to convince the majority to adopt those previous amendments to the previous members, so this makes some sense, because as it's written, the council needs to take a report on the work to say, we've had four sessions, we've adopted the financial plan first, and in the fourth final account. Furthermore, on the second, we set the salary, not the salary, but the governor's salary, on the third, we determined the fee paid to the National Bank of Serbia, and at the fourth session we decided which of the department's chiefs with special powers and responsibilities and the end of the story. There's no jurisdiction anymore. We don't need a report like that. We don't want to go through the newspapers to find out these, let's be, picanteria, who from the People's Bank bought out the property of banks in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32945	Right on the line, MP Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32946	Dear colleagues, I don't take this name and last name for evil for the first time, but let me say about dual citizenship, when it's already mentioned. Of course, I think the governor can be a stranger, both a stranger and only a stranger. Maybe the whole governor's advice could be all strangers, maybe it'd be best for us. What I've been saying is exclusively about the legal system and I don't think it's remembered in the country that a judge can be a double citizen. It's something else entirely. Otherwise, I might think the Prime Minister might be a stranger. So these are different systems that we're talking about. So when you call on that dual citizenship, don't always and in any case say, now it's Pal, I don't mean it like that. I just don't think he can be a foreigner in the legal system, and that means neither the foreigner of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or whatever that state is called. That means I mean behind those who are Serbs by nationality, and they have some other citizenship. So I don't think they can be double citizens in the legal system. Otherwise, let's say, if the governor were a stranger, let's say maybe Jeffrey Sachs or someone else, maybe I wouldn't mind. So these are questions that we can talk about, but to simplify it like this, so to say that I am a priority against double citizens not being able to participate, I never said that. I said, always and only in one case that I can't get in the legal system, I think. Otherwise, as far as dual citizenship is concerned, I think we could all have that, that double citizenship. Those Hungarians who want to have dual citizenship, say Hungary, why not. Let them ask him to get it and so on, as those from Serbia and Bosnia are looking for, so they probably have dual citizenship, a team before our government now, unlike the previous one, has nothing against people being double citizens. I don't mind, either, who wants to look. Legal system, the judicial system is something that's specific to all of this. I don't think that's the only place he can't be good, and for everything else, of course he can, and in the government, why not, why not be some double citizen. We had an example, maybe it wasn't bad, and let's just say it was more for some other movies, not for these of ours, because he said, let's leave the Hungarians to us, Hungarians are good women and they understand the stew, and I'm going to run politics. We told him - sir, thank you, you sit on that bike and ride that bike, so we don't want to run politics. He was one of those presidents of the federal government. In all of this, I think that foreigners can participate, and that would be good, in order to argue less with each other that the governor is a foreigner, a good German who understands this policy, and perhaps the state would be more reputable and stable. So don't call on me and don't interpret it the way I don't think. What I was thinking, I was just thinking about the legal system and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32947	Is anyone else applying for an amendment? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32948	The amendment to Article 25, a colleague, Joca Todorovic, explained quite well. I want to say that the need for a council meeting is not only because there should be some time limit when it is in session, but because the decisions it makes can have positive and negative consequences, which are reflected in a large number of institutions, economic factors, citizens, above all by the government. So I think it is important that what is subject to the amendment be accepted because it regulates this member in a better and more comprehensive manner. We are surprised that the promoter did not do so, but simply wrote: "The council, if necessary, and at least once a year, submits a report to the National Assembly on its work". It means that when he wants to and when there are conditions, we don't know what kind of conditions. Our amendment better regulates this matter. We have a situation that a foreign citizen, with Australian citizenship, is an ambassador to the United Nations Mission in New York. It's Mr. Dejan Shahovic. One second before that, he was an ambassador to Australia on the same mission.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32949	The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32950	Gentlemen, the Members of the People are just in Article 26, as foreseen under the law, one of the key traps for parliament. Article 26 states: "The Council shall report to the National Assembly on its work at least once a year." Where it's listed when it's supposed to be ambushed, he says he can do it three months. What can he sit around about? He can take a seat on the adoption of a financial plan, a final account, determine a fee for compensation, set a profit for the governor of the National Bank, and that's the end. Even when we add -- powers for special officials, chiefs of service, there's an end, there's nothing left. This parliament should be interested, because it chooses the governor, the monetary policy, the real foreign reserve of the state, how much the National Bank has made possible and participated in the country's growth in exports in the current business year, how much it has brought its policy into line with the economic policy of the Serbian government, to the extent that conditions for good credit to the economy and citizens have been created. From that report, nothing will happen to parliament. That's exactly the point. Therefore, unless all MPs agree in these essential matters, the purpose of the council will have no meaning, and the trap for parliament is right here. If parliament has to discuss a report of the council with these powers, then parliament doesn't need that kind of responsibility, to serve as a cover for something that it won't be able to plead or say anything. Finally, it can end on one of Parliament's working bodies, where consent is easily obtained on any issue. That's why these articles are important, 24, 25, and 26. If the proposal does not see the essence of the proposed amendment, unless it looks at the depth of the system solutions that are important for the future function of the National Bank of Serbia, then the law will again become trivial. I'm going to remind myself of a law that's turned into trivial form, and I've warned from here on and on about its essence. It is the law on extraprofit, which has lost its own contents, stopped functioning and the question is what will happen to the funds charged under the law. We had an interest in charging extra profit, to discuss once in Serbia the question of who should really pay for the extra profit. (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. ) It seems to me that this law is about to experience a similar fate as the Extraprofit Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32951	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? There's no sign-ins. ) The National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Dragan Milentijevic and Meso Omerovic together submitted the 28 amendments. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic jointly submitted the 28th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32952	Dear Presidency, Honored fellow Members of Parliament, Article 28. The draft law establishes an area of incompatibility of functions, conflicts of interest and termination of functions. In relation to this article, we at this first half, at point 1) - the incompatibility of governors, vice governors, council members and employees with special powers with political functions, parliamentary duties, government membership, local self-government units, we agree that there is a conflict of interest, and we support that part of this member. However, we disagree with this second group mentioned in point 2), which is that those officials cannot have shares, founding roles and securities of value in banks, other legal entities controlled by the National Bank, etc. Why? For two reasons. The first seems to me to be the equal position of all employees. All employees, according to regulations so far, had the right to certain actions, stakes in the companies they worked in. It is not right to restrict one category of people because they own 200 euros per year of internships in a company or a bank and have on this basis certain actions to serve as governors, vice governors or any person with special powers at the National Bank. Secondly, if the principles of what is best for the state, what is best for its monetary and fiscal policy, we should just get the governor and the vice governor out of the order of prominent experts from the economy or prominent experts from the banks, above all the business banks that have been doing this job for many years, who have gained some experience. It is known to me that they have even made some written recommendations from the National Bank to directors and management of business banks, that they must be shareholders in their banks, because they thus prove their relationship with the bank they work in, in which the managers are. If this point remains 2), it seems to me that we will cut ourselves off from the branch on which we are sitting, that we will deprive ourselves of the possibility that one huge number of quality people, who made a trade in business banks, in business, will not be able to be the bearers of functions in the National Bank tomorrow, only because of a very rigid solution that we propose to delete.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32953	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32954	Here we are going, in this article, about a good part of the policy field, it is in play and hence, an attempt to protect the function of governors, vice governors, members of the council from their previous lives. Only to bring you some director of a farming cooperative, which deals exclusively with agriculture, for the governor, because a small number of people who deal with finance can say that banking in Serbia has no registered action. Since the 1990s, actions have been put in place, which have a certain insignificant value and have no impact on the jobs and tasks of the governors of the National Bank of Serbia and its closest associates. I think here this point 2) has more than one demagogue sound that allegedly defends the expertise and independence of the governor. You yourself have admitted that we are in the privatisation process, that both these days and every day there are stock registrations and that securities are traded out of value. It's just that today it's hard to find a person who doesn't have an action listed in a company or who enrolled in a company where it worked 10 to 15 years ago, and has the right to do his part of the effort in the company. In my view, point 2) is absolutely pointless, for another reason, because it will be difficult to find a person who has no action in Serbia, only someone who is almost imported from abroad, if he comes to the governor's post, then as if he fell out of a plane, so there are no, some don't speak well or Serbian, maybe he won't have shares or similar shares in capital. I have the impression that you're going to have a hard time finding those 10, 15 most important personalities, that none of them are going to hook up with any of these things. Since this will all come to the Finance Committee, because there will be a proposal, I have to say as a member of the Finance Committee, we need to know before we know if there really is or isn't. The first parliament here will appoint a governor, and then they themselves will write a statement whether they have something or not. It doesn't matter what they say, it's an important fact and the fact that it exists or doesn't exist. They can make an important statement, they can make any statement, who can control it more.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32955	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32956	Article 28 tries to solve one problem, which is a conflict of interest and incompatibility of functions. Point 1) refers to something that would be said to be politics and point 2) to something that can be said of material interest. There are problems, because fortunately the National Bank of Serbia is a state body, and those working at the National Bank of Serbia must meet all the conditions needed for all other employees of state bodies. This is clearly stated in Article 16. If foreigners work, then we don't know what their property is, because under this control only the assets that exist, we don't have the ability to control what they have from assets abroad. It can also be the founding capital and actions of a bank where the National Bank of Serbia holds its foreign exchange reserves. Correspondent bank, a bank with a conto-coordinated account. It doesn't even matter what form. The bank that represents our interests, the bank through which we make payments to abroad, the import lobby, the pharmaceutical lobby, absolutely doesn't matter, but it's important that we can't exercise control, so no matter what statement that future official or governor, deputy, vice governor, council member or employee writes to us. Obviously, this amendment is trying to find some solution and the only solution is the public. To make public aware of what the situation is, not to make certain restrictions, because if restrictions are made, then there is an imminent follow-up of abuse. Abuse can be very dangerous. If by any chance this law were in force, the monetary committee would have made a decision, i.e. a decision to withdraw a bank's license. If a member of the council has shares in that bank, he could notify the bank in time to go with some placement, suck out the bank's assets, and so he saves his capital. One of these banks was injured for refusing to grant a loan, or giving a guarantee, to one who is preparing to participate in a bid to buy out a large company.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32957	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to Article 29. (Joca Arsic from the post: Article 28) The amendment to Article 28 has just been discussed in detail. It is my assumption that you are calling for an amendment, which reads: "Articles 22, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 93, behind the word "governor", in the corresponding downturn, add the words "registration of governors", explaining that it is necessary to make an amendment in all the above-mentioned members of the bill, and the amendment was submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Milan Jankovic. That amendment is one amendment and you have interpreted it as one amendment, in accordance with the order of the first member of the law to which you have submitted the amendment, which is Article 22. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Zoran D. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32958	This is the legal consequence of our amendment to Article 28, given that in the previous article we have proposed to delete ownership of actions, securities of value, as a reason for the non-compatibility of the functions of governors, vice governors and others with the authority of the National Bank, and subsequently we have proposed to delete the next member to whom the obligation of governor, Vice Governor and others is intended to submit evidence that they do not have any action. This amendment essentially follows the fate of the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32959	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the 30th Amendment, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Do you want a word on behalf of the amendment applicants? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32960	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in front of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, my colleague Zoran Nikolic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 30, in which we are decidently speaking in what manner, under which conditions the governor, Vice Governor and members of the council ceases to function and before the term of office, and under the following conditions - if they request it themselves, if their working relationship ceases due to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, as well as in the case of resolution from that function. The Governor, Vice-Governors and members of the council shall also be relieved of their functions in the following cases - if they are convicted, and the other conditions shall be listed if they are found to be inextricably performing their function, if, on the basis of the findings and opinions of the health care institution, they are found to have permanently lost their working capacity, etc. What we don't agree with in the proposed member of this law is that their working relationship ends because they meet the conditions for retirement. If you remember, when we talked here about the Labour Act, there was an opportunity for someone to work after fulfilling the conditions for retirement, and that means after 65 years of life. It is known in the West that governors are people who have great experience, who do this job after 65 years of life, so if the government's intention was to get close to European standards, they should have taken care of it and given the possibility to people after 65 years of life, and in accordance with the already existing Labour Act, to perform this very responsible function. Also, a legislator, or government, could provide for this member another possibility to leave the governor, deputy governor or deputy governor in retirement, so that the last member could say that his function would cease even if he was thrown out of the National Bank of Serbia under the attacks of revolutionaries.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32961	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving to the amendment to Article 30, which was submitted by MP Nebojsa Jovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32962	On behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 30(2) of point 1) of the proposal for a law on the National Bank of Serbia, which I propose to add "convicted" to the words "unconditional prison sentence". In fact, Article 30 states that the Governor, Vice-Governor and members of the council shall cease to function before the term of office, if they so request, if their working relationship ceases due to the fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, as well as in the case of discharge from that function. Article 2(1) provides that governors, vice-governments and members of the council are to be released from office if they are legally convicted of a criminal offence against business, market unity, labour relations, property, judiciary, public order and legal traffic and official duty. As I said, I propose, by amendment, that behind the word "convicted" stands "unconditional prison sentence". Although I am sure that in order to resolve from the post of governors, vice governors and members of the council, it must be in the very doing of the crime, it may still be necessary to consider how to bind the governor, vice governor and members of the council and for the kind of sanctions imposed for the offence. In this regard, we have experience, expertise and the ability of our courts to assess in particular the degree of social danger and to give minor judgment and probation. I therefore propose that as reasons for the resolutions, Article 30(2) point 1) states that they are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32963	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32964	This amendment is in line with the practice and solutions of a large number of our laws, which not only condemns the law, but also the unconditional sentence of imprisonment, and even going to the maintenance of the prison sentence, are linked to the termination of the employment relationship, and according to that logic and the termination of the post as one of the reasons for the resolution. If the amendment is compared to the basic text, the basic text is more rigorous. All it takes is a judicial verdict, so let it be a probation, it is a condemning and producing some legal fact within the meaning of this article. However, my predecessor pointed out the great problem we have, and it is reflected in the fact that each criminal procedure usually has to take care of individualization in every respect, both with responsibility and with punishment. But we don't have a solution in case the suspect is being prosecuted. We wrote against Mladjan Dinkic, informing the competent state authorities when he was breaking in with weapons, no one wanted to initiate a pre-criminal case against him. It was only a few months ago that we heard that Dusan Mihajlovic was crying for failing to take him to account for winning the People's Bank of Yugoslavia with rifles at the time. Of course, he immediately jumped Dusan Matkovic to defend him, that he allegedly invited him. What else do we have? We still have the obvious abuse at hand. I'm not going into a value determination. All decisions by Governor Mladjan Dinkic concerning Astra Banka have been abolished, the federal court's decision has been annulled. He's going out on the media too -- I'm not going to implement that solution, I'm going to go against the judges, the judges who did something like that are calling. You see, according to all the rules, one who has a guilty sentence to parole has more moral right to be a member of this body than one who in the media confirms a tendency to crime, but no one is in charge of proceedings against him. Therefore, there is no solution in this bill, nor in some of our other laws, but there is a need for the right to measure and measure in the course of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32965	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Ljubojevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragan Ljubojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32966	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 31. The law on the National Bank of Serbia regulates the way in which it comes, i.e. who has the authority to resolve the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party here intervened with the amendment in this direction to say "The National Assembly Committee responsible for finance" in replacing the words "the relevant working body of the National Assembly", for the reason that such a formulation would open up the possibility for the National Assembly to form a special working body that would accompany the work of the National Bank of Serbia, all related to the choice and resolution of governors and councils of the National Bank of Serbia. So, to not only be bound by the possibility of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, although the very mandate of a national body of the National Assembly of Serbia is asking whether it is the right place, or whether it should be able to propose the choice and resolution of the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, or the National Bank of Serbia, for the simple reason that in this recent history we have had examples, or whether it should be possible to make sure that some governors, or the current governor, did not come to this place in a regular and legal manner, a regular and legal way, and that someone who came automatically to the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, who has now become the National Bank of Serbia, can also leave that place. It's nothing new. It is something that has been recorded in political practice that when certain positions are reached in one way, that history does so, that it is in the same way leaving these positions, although such a law, as it is, establishes some principle that in a legal, legal way, through the institutions of the system comes and goes from certain functions. The fact is that the current governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, i.e. now the National Bank of Serbia, will not go in a regular and legal manner, but will go almost exactly the same way he came, but the question is why is this being discussed in the National Assembly, because those who will vote do not follow at all, nor understand what is being said. The minister in charge of finance, or representative of the promoter, is not in the National Assembly. Obviously, Mr. Mitrovica is the only one who follows and understands what's going on in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32967	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32968	This law and too much authority are given to one working body of the National Assembly. This shall be the case for Article 31. The Committee on Finance of the National Assembly determines whether the conditions and calls on the governor to plead and propose themselves to the National Assembly. All previous solutions to the resolution of the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia were better than this. In this way, the initiative and the proposal of 20 MPs have been stalled, and they are still a constitutional category and must not be forgotten. If they can demand a vote of non-refoulement to the government, they must have that right when it comes to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. That the Constitution was adopted in 1990 and does not contain precise provisions does not mean that this law does not require the very provision that allows MPs to be put in place, and that this proposal should require 20 MPs to initiate the procedure for dispensing the governors. Since you have taken this stand and are going this way through the advice, or advice, and the committee responsible, of the Assembly, we suggest that this committee of the Assembly be so determined by law, not by name that it is the very Committee on Finance. This could be some new committee that would be formed by amending the Rules of Procedure and that would pretty much control the monetary sphere and exert that interference and compensate for that lack that 20 MPs cannot launch the initiative. It's the purpose of this amendment, that if something is possible, make it normal with this law, so that most finally realize that these are not ordinary things, but big problems. There's a reason for you to get rid of him. Not only these existing ones, but be sure when you choose new ones after a month, you will find out that the conditions for their resolution had occurred a year before.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32969	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32970	I just wanted to support Mr. Krasic's initiative. It makes a lot of sense to change the Rules of Procedure in this part, to establish a monetary committee in the Serbian Parliament, because by adopting the law on the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly becomes responsible for this institution. We used to have a Federal Assembly of the SRJ Committee on Monetary Economics, that's what it was called. So it makes sense that there is a committee, and the SPS MPs will also support this initiative in its official form.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32971	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Slavka Pavlovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32(1) and that the words "The Committee of the National Assembly responsible for finance" are replaced by the words "the relevant working body of the National Assembly". This amendment follows the previous amendment. I have submitted this amendment for two reasons. The first reason is purely legal-technical. I have proposed this for the simple reason why the Finance Committee can be called otherwise, but this will define my proposal to do so by the appropriate working body of the National Assembly, which can be one or more committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment proposal is more legal-technically correct than the solution offered by the draft law on the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason is an extremely high obligation, as well as the responsibility of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which propose the choice of governors and councils of the National Bank of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to decide, on a reasoned proposal from the Finance Committee, within 60 days of the date of setting out the conditions for the termination of office of governors or members of the National Bank of Serbia's council, on the termination of office, or on the resolution of governors or members of the National Bank of Serbia's council. The question arises as to what will happen if the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not accept the proposal of the Finance Committee and decide on the termination of the post, i.e. on the discharge of any governor, any members of the National Bank of Serbia's council. All this points to a major legal and technical lack of this bill, as well as an excessive commitment to be placed before the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32973	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32974	Anyone who has a law in front of him and reads Article 32(1) is not clear to him at all, because what this would mean in the last sentence, if the Finance Committee finds that the conditions for the termination of office and the resolution of members of the council have been met, it shall initiate proceedings before the National Assembly within 60 days of setting those conditions. What's the deadline for, what's the deadline for? The Finance Committee has determined that the conditions for stopping the post have been met, it has determined that the conditions for resolution have been met, I guess immediately forwarding to the National Assembly that it should decide, because it has the impression that within 60 days, the Committee on Finance is considering whether it will propose to the National Assembly that a member of the Council be resolved. If he's determined by automation, it's headed for the assembly where he's due to come to the vote. I get the impression that the same logic is applied here as the RadioDifusing Council and the Lustration Commission. Something has been written with an application never to come to life, and most of them may submit a motion for resolution and vote against their proposal. Don't do that with the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia must be a serious institution. You know what it's like, working with money, there's no big emotion here that either way, it's about money, it's about money, it's about people's lives. So, in addition to asking, if someone has to discuss this before the National Assembly, then let it be an appropriate competent working body that would later be formed by amending the Rules of Procedure. Don't put everything and everything together with the Finance Committee. Well, half the members of that committee here just serve for the quorum. Where did they warn the government or the National Bank? And we were warned of this law the moment the Ministry Act was changed and the Ministry of Finance became the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and when it was given jurisdiction from the monetary sphere, then the MPs objected - is that possible? Well, it's mature, it's come, now we see what it was changed for back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32975	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Rada Bajić and Zivanko Radovanchev submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32976	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with our colleague, Master Zivanko Radovanchev, we have submitted an amendment to Article 33, which sets out Article 33, that after the term of office or after the replacement from office, after one year from that deadline, they cannot be employed in the National Bank and other financial institutions, or the governor, or the Vice-Governors, or members of the council. We propose a logical amendment, I don't think it should be explained, because the government will accept it, because in many countries it is living in this way, which is that at least two years these people can't be employed in banks or other financial institutions. The difference is very simple. The governor, and especially the way we had, who used guns to get into the bank, guns to power, do whatever he wanted, he must have created himself such a space or favored a bank to have a comfortable place in it. He destroyed all the banks worth in Serbia, especially the Serbian banks, and it really takes at least two years to pass and not to appear in banks or financial institutions anymore. Given that orders are being obeyed and all of this is coming from the outside, I am surprised that they have not accepted the proposal, or have installed that provision that at least two years of the governor, his assistants and members of the council cannot be employed in this area. For this reason, we suggest that it be two years, that time passes, that simply these streams, the channels to which it is used, and which will be used if employed, simply turn those valves, close and allow all banks to participate equally in the market, and not to have the privilege of having the one where the governor is employed. I think we should remember this article in 33rd and this amendment that it's completely logical and the government was supposed to accept it, but we hope that you will accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32977	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The speech is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, and by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32978	There are other areas that limit the engagement of certain persons following the engagements they had in such sensitive institutions, such as the National Bank. It is cheaper for the state to allow the persons who were vice governors or who had served as governors to make two years of application than to allow them to become employed immediately after that at a bank or another institution. It's enough that, at the end of the governor's or vice governor's function, on any basis, that person with 50 card cards, with influence, with business connections that have been realized, with a whole series of privileges, could abuse it in, say, a private bank or some other similar, related institution. So this amendment rightly regulates. There are such experiences in the judicial authorities of some countries like Texas, Nevada, that the prosecutor can't be a lawyer for two years or that he can never be a lawyer, etc. I think the amendment makes sense, and we expect you to support it, and it also makes sense that what I'm saying is that in another way, as for unscheduled persons or persons with similar status, it ensures the material status of a former governor or vice governor, not to be threatened by his existence at that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32979	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32980	What is regulated by Article 33 falls under the justifiable exceptions to the restrictions on human rights. There are almost all countries and this is some logical consequence of the ban, i.e. incompatibility of functions and conflicts of interest. It is good that this amendment has been submitted to increase this deadline from one year to two years, because we now have a situation, as far as the vice governor is concerned, two of them must be returning to their jobs in case of termination, and that's in the banks. So provided with information from the National Bank of Serbia, acquaintances, ties, can provide a great strategic advantage to its bank. That ban must exist. That is why there is a provision that we have talked about, when choosing the governor, the vice governors, members of the council, must be kept in mind to be professionals, professional people in the area, but not to be interested in groups that have touch points with the jobs of the National Bank of Serbia. We have an obvious example, right here in the neighborhood. One Deloitte and Touche representative conducted talks on the privatisation of the cement factory in Beicino with Lafarz and others. After this bulldozer of the revolution, he became Minister of Privatisation and where his ministry, his company, is there, is only in the floors. Well, let's move on. There's no need to move on. It's incompatible. Unauthorized. This arrogance that the board is still standing, standing still a little longer, dangerously warning what the character of this government is. Regulate it within your ranks. One who was in a way a function of the National Bank of Serbia, under the law, cannot have more touch points with monetary policy, banking business, foreign exchange operations for two years. Those you propose for these functions must start to know what awaits them at the end of the function.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32981	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Tomislav Panajotovic submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Dusan Cvetkovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, on behalf of the applicants of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32982	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment group of the SPS has achieved its goal, and our main goal was to prevent a huge debt of the Republic of Serbia's budget to the National Bank of Serbia on the basis of short-term commitments, i.e. covering the deficit that arises at the time when the budget cannot carry out planned and programmed monthly, or established commitments. Given that, our proposal was to reduce the debt rate and the total amount of funds that could be burdened from 10% to 5%. By adopting amendments to another parliamentary group, which also provides for a reduction of this amount of funds and a limit to 5%, we have achieved that goal, whether the Government or the Committee accepts this amendment or not. There is, in my opinion, a very significant amendment to the same member who has been accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. I am uncomfortable that my colleague, Toma Panajotovic, has submitted to the same members of the minority the same amendment that I have submitted (from the hall - he prescribed)... He did not prescribe, but I am glad that he too began to deal with finance and that he established what is very important and significant. One view is added, which is that loans based on the settlement of budgetary commitments must be returned by the end of the current financial year. This is very dangerous, given that these contractual obligations created between the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia sometimes cannot be reconciled exactly as planned. Take, for example, about December 15th or 20th, a short-term short-term loan based on settlement obligations for what is planned in the budget, so that there will be a possibility that by the end of the financial year that part of the budget will be returned. Do not burden yourself with something that has not already been provided for in the basic text of the law. It is also very important in this amendment, which once existed in the Budget Law, and now in the Budgetary System Act, that from the first next inflow of funds... (President: three minutes. _Other Organiser repays the loan or short-term loan based on the debt to settle the current liquidity. That is why we have achieved our goal by this amendment, and I think that at this point it is unnecessary for the correspondence to be returned by the end of the current financial year, and we know if the loan does not return that amount of funds would achieve the budget deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32983	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Rajko Baralic, an authorised representative, an SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32984	Maybe it wouldn't be such a high risk compared to possible borrowing, so we have a different budget. So, for the third year in a row, the Serbian Parliament brings a budget that is deficited, non-consolidated and unbalanced. It's very dangerous, because that deficit is being felt from privatisation, from donations, from credit, and when all that's not enough, and often it's not, we know that it's not, then, of course, the easiest and closest it would be to doing so at the National Bank, in the way and to the level proposed in the law. Therefore, this amendment is one dam to limit this in some way and to deal more with the budget that is the most important factor of stability in one country, because the budget that is being filled according to the dynamics as planned, full 100% of what is planned, is the safest indicator that the Government of the State will not fail for additional funds, will not attack the People's Bank and thus will not have any inflationary function. I caution, noting, last night Minister Djelic was inconsistencies with the statement he made these days, so there are two completely opposite statements about this. So, again last night, he challenged the governor of the National Bank that he was not cooperative enough and that in terms of overcoming a certain deficit that was created he was not responding collegially. He calls it temporal money. There are a whole series of other things, so the law should be decadent and tell which level this is possible. The amendment that Mr. Mucic has now explained better regulates and gives a higher level of guarantee that the budget will not be used to cover public spending more than that... (President: three minutes. )......................................................................................................... as much as possible to tolerate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32985	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Milojevic, Aleksandar Vatovic, Olgica Kircanski, Dragan Milentijevic and Meso Omerovic, together, accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 39th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32986	These days, Minister Djelic is saying that Dinkic did not lend him credit to finance the temporary budget indifference, that this left out social contributions, that it was very angry with Minister Gordana Matkovic, and that it spilled a glass that caused Djelic to argue with his friend Mladjan Dinkic. In order to avoid any future governor blackmailing a future finance minister, if this one is looking for credit to finance the temporary liquidity of the budget, and some new Dinkic tells him - he can, but it can only be a long-term loan, this amendment has only tried to correct one inaccuracies and to stress that loans to finance the temporary liquidity of the budget can only be given as a short-term. The whole amendment regulates the short-term financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. As I heard last night, Minister Djelic said he accepted proposals from all known and unknown white-world callers, that he was here, I don't think there would be any reason not to accept this amendment, given that he is indeed both meaningful and logical and that he provides some security in relations between the government and the National Bank of Serbia. Otherwise, from last night's friendly chat between the current finance minister and the self-called governor of the National Bank, I think a result will happen which will look like the governor will be resolved, the minister will resign, and the real governor, the real finance minister, the real Serbian Prime Minister William Montgomery, will definitely and permanently leave Serbia-Montenegro. Then again, it means that there is no longer any reason to wait, that it is really high time to decide what you have to do, which is to call emergency elections and finally settle the situation in Serbia, while it is not too late, given that we just need to think about what we're going to do with about 2.5 billion loans that have run through the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is not an improved production and that we don't know how and when we're going to return.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32987	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32988	The amendment is important because it refers only to the short-term responsibility of the Republic of Serbia towards the National Bank of Serbia. This member should be given the possibility that the National Bank of Serbia can borrow the budget of the Republic of Serbia in the short term, in order to bridge those situations where budget inflows do not go at the planned pace, and obligations that reach and seek their own. Therefore, this change is required in Article 39(1). We also propose to add a new position 3 to ensure that this short-term credit is returned by the end of the financial year, and if it does not return, that the highest authority in this country is informed of this and that the reasons why this short-term loan did not occur. This problem, if someone in the budget is in debt on December 15th, how will they be returned by the end of the year, is not a problem of short-term borrowing through credit, as the loan contract represents the consent of both parties, but, as a rule, the problems are resolved by securities of value and so on. Business banks, where so far there's no disturbance in the budget to be in debt. The fact that some have taken advantage of this idea and made their amendments, of course, that government adopted, means nothing. I have to tell you, it doesn't mean anything, because, practically, only a changed idea, the thesis has been replaced, the place has been replaced. Short-term lending is probably our necessity, but since you in attitude 2 have given as much as it can total the total amount of that debt, it can practically amount to 30 billion dinars, because it cannot exceed three times the base capital of the National Bank. With one member, you have determined the core capital of the National Bank of 10 billion dinars. So 30 billion dinars. For the Republic of Serbia's budget, this is probably a significant amount of funds. It's not a good thing you're limiting to what amount you can borrow by just one year and give five percent. It's always in practice to take a three-year average and not that one... (President: three minutes. Just one more second.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32989	People's MP, please, since for the last 15 seconds, you're not talking about an amendment that's on the agenda at all. Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. Tomislav Panajotovic submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljubomir Mucic and Rade Bajic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32990	Mrs Comic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group has proposed by its amendment to delete the proposed member of the 43rd law, given that several times already in Article 4 and Article 14 the same thing is repeated, which is, above all, that through Article 4, Article 14, and now through Article 43, it is trying to regulate some kind of independence of the National Bank of Serbia in relation to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry and other state bodies. It says: "The National Bank of Serbia, with the government's consent, determines the dinar course regime." Secondly, what is significant and broader, as regards the establishment of a regime in a credit-money policy: "The National Bank of Serbia independently leads the policy of the dinar course". We have tried through this amendment to free this law of what is repeated in several members and on several occasions, given that this member has tried in one way to define what is not its purpose. Also, I think that as proposed and accepted in this amendment - in Article 43 paragraph 1 it becomes item 2 and item 2 becomes item 1, I think that only the change of attitudes within one member does not reach the goal and that one such modern and well-prepared law should not be burdened with a series of views repeated from one member to another. The same is asked here and an important question arises, what if the government of the Republic of Serbia does not give consent to the change of the dinar course regime. Whether this is being notified, whether the National Bank of Serbia will inform the Assembly, the ministry or anyone in this state of Serbia, that there are intentions by the National Bank of Serbia to change the regime of the dinar course, and whether any measures will be taken at all. We know what this unreal course of dinar means at this point, first of all, for the exporters. Since this is the last amendment I explain, really since the minister won't answer that question I asked yesterday, I repeat, if a woman is appointed governor, in accordance with your new spelling, what will she be called: governor, governor or governess?
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32991	National MPs, if you already have the reach prepared for your presentation, please see next time that this reach is within three minutes or respect for the Rules of Procedure, so as to give you a warning of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32992	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, submitted to Article 43. The draft law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which reads: "The National Bank of Serbia proposes the government's dinar course regime. The government and the National Bank of Serbia must co-operate to determine the policy of the dinar course conducted independently by the National Bank of Serbia. If no agreement is reached and therefore raises the question of achieving the government's economic policy, or of doing the jobs for which the National Bank of Serbia, the Government and the National Bank of Serbia are obliged to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia immediately." At this point, for us in the Serbian Radical Party, it is not an important influence to determine the dinar course regime whether it will be done by people who are close to the Democratic Party or G17 plus, or by people from the National Bank of Serbia or by the Government of Serbia, whether it will be the individual Mladjan Dinkic or Kori Udovicki, Stevan Mickovski or Ljubisa Jovanovic, it is absolutely whatever. Will it be someone who entered the National Bank of Yugoslavia using long pipes or will be chosen by this illegal majority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in any case, will not be a good solution. With regard to foreign exchange operations and the establishment of the dinar course regime, Mladjan Dinkic, the current governor of the National Bank, before Yugoslavia, and now Serbia, has often talked about foreign reserves, but has not said that large amounts of foreign reserves are in foreign accounts, or accounts in foreign banks, and that according to them is the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Now that separation has occurred, in fact and in a certain legal sense, between Serbia and Montenegro, there is no way Mladjan Dinkic is going public to tell us what these foreign reserves are regarding foreign exchange operations and the determination of the course of dinars belonging to the Republic of Serbia. Should the reserve effect be included in public consumption or investment, i.e. investment investments? Is full independence in determining the dinar course regime well given to the National Bank of Serbia, given that for two and a half years now the current governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia and now Serbia had the habit of spending on who knows why money. On a regular basis, he had routes across Western Europe, England and Germany, where he gave up to 30-40 euros for his promotion, when he publicly declared that his salary was 100,000 dinars, which is enormously high in terms of the government's salary, the government's member in Serbia, since he is the biggest culprit for shutting down twenty-seven banks, with 8,000 workers in those banks running out of work, or when the National Bank of Serbia, or Yugoslavia, last year, has a budget spending of 28 billion and 130 million, unlike the fact that all courts in Serbia spent only 4 billion and 165 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32993	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32994	This is the third or fourth member in which we propose this intervention and possibly the position of the 3rd amendment can convince you how serious this is, in whose jurisdiction the regime is, and in whose jurisdiction the implementation of the policy of the dinar course is. It's all about regrets in the monetary sphere, because the stock funds are thin, they almost don't exist. This course of dinars for two years, two and a half years, has been defended by the governor by ransom through exchange rates, loans from abroad. For these loans, special laws have been passed in the Federal Assembly on the responsibility of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, now the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, on behalf of and on behalf of Serbia. Counter-guarantee goes here, and all that is done could, more widely, be put into the context of the implementation of economic policy. The government practically allows the National Bank to artificially guard this course, and it's so devastating for our economy that long ago our businessmen stopped thinking about exporting something after they've lost. Now they're thinking about what to do, because everything that's going on is getting lost. It's that danger that exists with us. It's unthinkable work, business activity. The government is formally-legally responsible, and it is essentially pointless to hold such a firm course, from which everyone has damage, increasing debt slavery. This people and this country should return these loans to the current monetary stability without results. It's a double damage, and the money's gone. Insolvency, indifference, bankruptcy, we'll probably have a new bankruptcy law in a month, a turbo procedure to shut down the company. When the time came, no one was to blame, and what happened had to happen, because someone was paid long ago to bring it into this state. That's why I'm telling you that last night was just an ordinary disagreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32995	Are any of the other authorized participants answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Amendment applicants don't want a word. The word is wanted by the deputy president of the Socialist People's Party parliamentary group, MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32996	Although on several occasions in article 4, the dinar course regime was mentioned, and in all these members the proposer remained in his position that the Government was giving consent, and the National Bank determined, and we demanded vice versa, that the National Bank propose, and the Government determines. And this time we try to say that the 43rd member is changing and it says, "The National Bank of Serbia proposes, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia determines the dinar course regime." This is important for a number of reasons. I'm 100% sure that at this point the government doesn't know, neither does anyone in the government, nor does the finance minister, how much the foreign effectiveness has been bought out by the National Bank of Serbia and what's going on with that money, whether it's included in foreign exchange reserves, whether other jobs have been done, whether guarantees have been given that they can import anything into the domestic market, so that it comes out of the country. So, the attempt to convince this government that it understands its role and importance is obviously unsuccessful, and the need to keep everything and everything in the monetary committee as a power, including the fact, in the previous position we have sought, at least when something is working on the subject, when it comes to the dinar course regime or the exchange rate regime, to at least write down some decision by the governor of the National Bank, and that there is a clue about what was going on in that area, there is already some money that has been bought out, and it is not known on the basis of which decisions, which was the course regime, why the funds were used and for which purposes they went. This is the end of the debate on this part of the law and could indeed come from the parliamentary majority and from the minister, who does not attach particular importance to the debate on this law, that it is indeed understood that this attempt to keep the National Bank of Serbia from going beyond the authority of the proposings and that the government has the authority to determine the course regime. It's just that the fiscal sphere, the area of finance and the government's functions are all about how much money you have, you're working. (President: Three Munites. ) I think that this attempt is also in this direction that the Government understands these proposals, i.e. the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32997	National MP Tomislav Panajotovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Financial Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of the SRS is of a technical nature and explains more precisely the intention of the National Bank, which it achieves by buying and selling foreign exchanges and effective foreign money on the foreign exchange market, where they say - in order to direct the movement of the exchange rate and maintain the level of foreign reserves, and we say that they do so - for the stability of the course of the dinars and maintaining the level of foreign reserves. We think it reflects much more clearly the intention we hear the governor of the National Bank, Mr Dinkic, and Finance Minister Djelic. We have often been able to hear from the governor of the National Bank of Dinkic that one of the greatest successes during his stay at the National Bank is that the exchange rate of the dinar remains stable, which is increased foreign reserves and that the citizen at any time for the money he receives as a profit can turn into any currency, buy the euro, dollar, etc. He also says that unless it's headed by the National Bank that the bank's reputation will be paid off, that we won't get any credits, that it can affect the stability of the dinars. On the other hand, Minister Djelic says that thanks to the government's policy, it is secure and anyone is the governor of the National Bank that the dinar will remain stable and will continue to be worth the same. That is why we have proposed that their intention in article 44 be crossed into the words "for the sake of stability". About the fact that the minister today won't accept or that some additional explanation, which is why this amendment is not accepted, because he's tired of last night's TV duel, when Djelic and Dinkic both said a lot of hard words to each other, so we heard that one hohstappler, another bastard, etc., and when I say the same thing about this pay phone, then I get a fine of 3,000, 6,000, 20,000, 30,000, but I can't agree with both the minister and Dinkic, that they're both right when they say so. We stand for a stable dinar and a stable dinar, but that will be more of a task, as I hear future governor Steve Mickowski.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u32999	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word is held by MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33000	Our basic intervention refers to Article 43(1), where we ask that the words "in order to direct the movement" be replaced by the words "for the sake of stability". So the National Bank is authorized to buy and sell foreign exchanges on the market primarily to ensure the stability of domestic currency. What is referred to as "in order to direct the movement of the course of the dinar" would make sense if such a policy of determining the course of the dinar was conducted here, so it is in agreement and depends on the state of the goods funds, external trade, export coverage, etc. However, these factors do not play any role in preserving the stability of dinars today. The only factor guaranteeing the stability of the dinars today, this artificial one, is -- came money from abroad, bought-out foreign exchanges here, placed in vaults, be the National Bank of Serbia, who knows where they are, and the National Bank intervenes on the financial market when there is a slight shift in course and defends this course. They only do that, and as companies close, which has no production balance, falls physically, unemployment increases, Djelic cannot fill the budget because there is no more where to take it, there is no traffic. They don't care about that. It's the IMF policy. It's this policy that brings the country into a crisis and destroys the tissue of a country. If, in Article 2 of this law, the legislators said that the stability of the dinars was their goal, as they claimed, then they do not need to write here how to direct the course, so they only tied the course to foreign exchanges. They didn't tie to the stock funds, they didn't tie to the market. Those in Article 2 don't talk about the state of the economy at all. How is it possible to talk about price stability, and the National Bank doesn't want to see the situation in the economy, where value is created? This amendment can only be lecturing, at the very least.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33001	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The same Article of the 44th Amendment was brought together by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Todorovic and Tomislav Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33002	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the Proposer should have accepted the amendment to Article 48, because he regulates the matter of borrowing abroad. I remind you all of Article 1(2), which says the Republic of Serbia is bound by the obligations of the National Bank of Serbia. Article 48 of Article 1 states that the National Bank, either for the sake of overcoming or as it is said in the text - overcoming current imbalances in the inflow and outflow of foreign exchanges - can be charged abroad in the short term with a repayment period of up to one year. It is then said in recital 2 that an exceptional provision with the International Monetary Fund may be in charge of those loans and loans with a repayment deadline of more than a year. We have suggested that such borrowings can be carried out, but with the consent of the Government, especially what should be kept in mind and the position of the 3rd member in which it is said that the National Bank can be committed abroad and with a deadline paid over a year, but under a special law, which will say that it must be decided in this assembly and we felt that a kind of construction must be introduced in debt, and that the borrowings, including those relating to the International Monetary Fund, must have the government's consent if the deadline is paid off over a year. In doing so, we need to understand the very clear situation that we will soon come into this so-called year and year. the debt crisis and that we will find it increasingly difficult to settle obligations on the basis of the imported, which is, as is known, three times higher than export, but also on the basis of the commitments already made, so that the provision that the National Bank in item 1 is in debt in its own name and in its own account does not essentially hold water, because for all the obligations of the National Bank, as I said, in Article 1 is guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, monetary authority is a particular type of government, but this issue of debt must be approached as one of the most important state issues and cannot just be authorised by the National Bank to be in debt abroad without any restrictions. It is not said here that it can be exceptional with the International Monetary Fund, but that the deadline will be two years and that the amount of these funds can be bearable, acceptable and from the point of view of the National Bank's liquidity in foreign currency terms, but that, in fact, the National Bank can enter into any amount of debt, and it is known, and I particularly underline that no debt to the IMF is without some of the conditions that this country needs to fulfil. So, the National Bank is in charge, the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the economic situation in the country, and the state of Serbia is responsible for all the obligations of the National Bank, although it is possible that in the relations that are present between monetary and executive authorities today we have very big misunderstandings, with very difficult consequences for the people and this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33003	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33004	Ms. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has instruments of economic policy in its hands and is responsible for all citizens, including the National Bank, and as a sum, is responsible for every credit, for any debt that is due to the account of independent institutions formed by a state or those such as the National Bank, whether it is an IMF or any other institution. We have proposed here in this amendment that the National Bank be obliged in Article 48 to do what it does only with the consent of the Government, because the government is definitely making an account before parliament, and Parliament is committed to the people and it makes sense that this amendment, as proposed, be accepted. This morning I was talking about it, it's not the only responsibility the state is in. We are here as the National Assembly on several occasions in the form of counterguarantee giving practical consent to loans, such as almost credit for roads or others, so it can be done in such a way that the state guarantees if the credit took over cannot service it. Those loans were a lot. We do not know exactly, and it would be nice when a new governor is elected to get a report on the degree of responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, on the dynamics of returning those obligations, and on whether a bauk, called the debt crisis, is indeed a real and dangerous threat to the economy and citizens of Serbia, or whether it is this speculation that comes from this or that aspect, and above all to manage the political interests of G17 and people who exercise power in Serbia today. It would be good, therefore, that any amendment that improves the law as a member of the 48th People's MPs accept it, because at the same time, at least who answers and reduces the risk of the People's Bank, in which we should trust, do something that the Government is unable to serve later.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33005	The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been issued by MP Dragan Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33006	The 50th article states that the National Bank of Serbia decides on how to form, manage, use and settle foreign exchange reserves under Article 49 of this law in a way best adapted to monetary and foreign policy and which contributes to the smooth fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards abroad. We said in the amendment that Article 1 adds the position 2 which reads: "The National Bank of Serbia is making concrete decisions in the previous position which determine the conditions and criteria for how to form, manage, use and make use of foreign reserves, on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia meets before their realisation." You today have a situation at the National Bank of Yugoslavia, i.e. at V.D. The governor said it was all his personal decision and his personal attitude. There are no decisions covering certain behaviours in that direction, whether so many and so many foreign effects will be bought, for which purposes will be used, without the government of the Republic of Serbia knowing anything about it, we heard on TV last year, we had it last year. The minister said the budget memorandum for next year will always be delivered to the governor of the National Bank to give consent. Okay, so what is this government, what is this parliament, if it should, that newly elected governor to give consent to the budget memorandum, which will only be presented here at the end of the year to all MPs and where the debate will be held, and the prime minister will explain economic policy for next year. All this makes sense under the condition that the governor commits himself to having those decisions discussed first by the National Bank of Serbia, then to look into the government of the Republic of Serbia. Later members are told that this parliament is also informed about what is happening at the National Bank of Serbia. Any report that's filed, we're just informing each other, we're not confirming anything. Are we going to get any paper here, any paper before the start of any session and inform ourselves about it in any form, without the right to comment, to say yes, and here we give our vote for the election of governors. To give the governor the right to make an oral decision on everything is not good, he must have a written position on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33007	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33008	It is good that this amendment practically draws attention to one problem. Earlier, the issue of foreign reserves was regulated with several provisions in the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia and with several provisions in the Foreign Affairs Act. What is alarming after these changes made over the past two and a half years, when it comes to the Foreign Exchange Act and the Law on the National Bank of Yugoslavia, is the fact that the concept of current and permanent foreign exchange reserves is practically abandoned. One of the rules of monetary policy and preserving the stability of national currency is that the current foreign reserve is decided by the National Bank, the central bank of the state, and the use and availability of permanent foreign reserves is decided by the Government, as an executive authority, and the decision is implemented by the central bank. If that's the standard, if that's the rule, then you see, there's no such thing in the bill and there's no article in the 50th, and this article basically points to this lack and source of conflict at the government's relationship -- the National Bank of Serbia. It is not insignificant who manages, benefits and disposes of foreign reserves and is not the same rank, same methodology, the same mode of intervention and actions when it comes to current foreign reserves and permanent foreign reserves. And we get from experts this kind of galathia from which it can be concluded that sublaws and some of our general acts, the monetary committee regulates this matter, which is matter that can only be regulated by law. We in the SRS have not pointed to the expected instability of certain provisions of this law so far. This provision may be a real example which indicates that this law is not, I cannot say in agreement, but it is not in the same wavelength as the Act, which is about the same rank, which is the Foreign Affairs Act, and it is obviously contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, or its basic principles, which regulate the work of state authorities and treats individuals and natural persons to state bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33009	Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanović. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendmentr wants a word. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33010	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the 53rd is the chapter of the issue of bills and coins. The provisions of Articles 53 and the bill regulate the issue of banknotes and coins, where the monetary unit of the Republic of Serbia is a dinar. The National Bank of Serbia issues bills and coins, determines the denominations and basic features of bills and coins. The 53rd said that the monetary unit of the Republic of Serbia is a hundred-dollar money split and that the National Bank of Serbia has the exclusive right to issue banknotes and coins in the Republic of Serbia. Amendment of the SRS to Article 53 The bill on the National Bank of Serbia's position 2 is amended and reads: "Only the National Bank of Serbia can issue bills and coins in the Republic of Serbia." The amendment to the SRS has been found more precisely that only the National Bank issues bills and coins, a much better solution than the Government has proposed to its Article 53. After all, it is not only important that the National Bank of Serbia does so exclusively, but it is important that as a personal solution, the governor of the National Bank, because we had a situation in this period of time, while the governor of the National Bank, at the time of Yugoslavia, Mr Dinkic, was a hologram of 5,000 dinars of poor quality, so there was a lot of noise about it. Simply, that hologram that was on the 5,000 dinar bill was coming off, and it was paid £18,000. However, Mr Dinkic, with his 5,000-euro salary, could compensate and pay for the damage he has done, as every bill issued by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, or now Serbia, is protected from counterfeiting in 13 ways. His explanation was that it was only one of those elements that protected the bill, on the one hand. On the other hand, it was an urgent printing of money, because at that time, remember, Serbian citizens at the time wanted to sell more foreign exchanges to the National Bank of Serbia, primarily because it was not a real course and because they could easily get to the foreign exchanges in this way, and because this government led to all those who had certain material assets in the straws, to get those financial assets out of the straw and to change the money through the National Bank of Serbia, so that they could somehow survive this difficult period for most Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33011	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Yeah. ) Here you are, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33012	We only specify this amendment because this exclusive right can also mean as a priority right only for the National Bank of Serbia in relation to all others, which is of course not a situation. The situation is that only the National Bank of Serbia can issue bills and coins and probably take a little care of style, appearance, not provoking Serbian citizens with some solutions, and especially not provoking commercials to increase capital by using some 5,000 dinar bills, etc. We believe that this amendment is acceptable to the Government, because it removes this lack of bad translation that is present in the existing article 53. I would like to ask the president, given that the Democratic Party MPs have indicated that something is wrong with the quorum, I point to the violation of Article 82(4) and please, in accordance with Article 118. Rules of Procedure, if they take these cards out first, we can determine the quorum. Well, I've made your wish come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33013	I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. (Goran Cvetanović, from the site: remove these cards. They don't enter the quorum. Now it's fortified, so these cards are valid, so it's only by a new insertion. I'm guessing we have a quorum. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Tomic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The amendment guy wants a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33014	Thank you. Again, I must say, I really think this is one of the essential amendments that would do something to repair the situation in the banking business in Serbia. With the circumstances, we have accepted one populist thing that foreign banks can come here, without any conditions, without any criteria, submit a request, pay $5 million and get permission to work. So, according to Serbia, we have a flood of business units, exposures, branches of various banks and mostly hunger for domestic efficiency by citizens and the efficiency that is in businesses, in companies that do good business and work. Of course, there's a fundamental struggle over pay traffic. And beyond that, when in any of these banks there's enough money, he needs to live on, so they're going to pay off that money. What's going on with the plasmas? These banks are also authorised to carry out trading operations, i.e. to buy foreign effects. What's going on with her? Nobody in this country knows that. Is someone putting an account in those banks? No, I don't. Do they have any obligation to use our domestic money, to what extent they place it? No, they have the only obligation to say that in Serbia it is currently risky to invest cheap capital. It's amazing that this same capital can come out of this country, when a domestic and good business firm has a good program, so it's asking for a loan, if it's a foreign money deal, it can get a loan under conditions to pay the interest from 11% to 13%, and when it comes to a domestic dinar, it has to pay between 20% and 30%. Like, some firms like Mercator walked our money, went abroad and got a 6% loan there, because it's safe there. When papers are made there, it's safe there, and when papers are made with us - 13%. So our companies, like Pecabeta, the C-market and others, can't get that kind of credit potential, but the parties can. That's how we got the McCord in Belgrade. I don't mind what Mercator is in Belgrade, but you can't find any kind of goods, almost no kind of goods, but we're giving our money there, there we have exchange offices and we're changing our currency and again, the money's gone. I'm a proposer here and an amendment and I'm an authorized face.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33015	There's two and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33016	Can I talk? You haven't read the Rules of Procedure well, I can take six minutes, I have time to explain. No, I have to explain to you Micovic, because if you don't do something with this, we don't need to shoot you down here, the people are going to tear you down for this. These are big things. It is always said that there are still 4 billion euros left in the country in straws. This is how you suck the capital out of this country and leave. When we add to this the function of the import lobby, or function as a purpose, that's what happens to us. Is it possible that you do not want the National Bank of Serbia and this government to regulate the position of foreign banks in this bill? With their powers not to lay down the criteria of their business and the availability of domestic money to citizens, businesses, as well as purchased foreign foreign foreign currency. Is it possible that even the finance minister of this state won't accept it? In any member of this law, you don't regulate it, as if no one's concerned. Huge funds, people, are being raised, there are many banks in Serbia that do so. They're all in exchange for exchanges, not exchanges. We fight for healthy money. How to get healthy money, how to be healthy foreign reserves, when they mostly come from ransoms, not from exports. You know to what extent our imbalances are in annual balance sheets and traffic. Some of you need longer to explain these positions, but you don't understand. I have to talk five times. Indeed, it is simply amazing that no one cares that this position is regulated by this law and that this is resolved in this way and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this Parliament has insight into what foreign banks are doing in our area. These are the most common phantoms. So, they can do whatever they want, they can't account for anyone, they can get some kind of inspector in control, but it's gonna end up with him, and he's gonna say he's protecting them from the IMF. It's not good for each other and good business relations in the world. It's impossible that no one cares about stopping the delivery control... (President: I warn you of overstepping allowed time. )......................................................................................................... money from the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33017	Do any of the other authorised participants want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33018	This amendment points to the problem that exists. The problem exists especially since Mladjan Dinkic is governor and something that is matter that needs to be regulated by the law on banks and financial organisations, and simply practice is such that it is left to him to regulate with his decisions and goodwill. As a result, this is the situation, and of course there are foreign banks in our territory and some have come with their capital and these banks have been formed here, and the naks have started to work by buying out the shares and shares of banks with problems. It was a form of recapitalisation and change of ownership structure. The quality that was to happen by entering foreign capital simply proved that these banks were only able to properly service payments to the abroad, that according to the governor's classification they were in that group of credits to provide guarantees to citizens who could be sure about their foreign exchange assets that they were saving. Here, for the past few months, these banks have also come forward with favourable loans to the public, with their funds of loan security far more rigorous than previously known forms of credit security used by our banks. Practically, we have an established imbalance. If the one with the problems and the dubiosis is supposed to run with the one without any problems, then there's a man in the starting position who wears 100 kilos on his back and a man who has easy shoes and can run the stock in 10 seconds. That's because we didn't get the quality or the more serious investment of foreign banks. The fact that the establishment is temporarily stopped or the conditions have been tightened, by the choice of Mladjan Dinkic, for the establishment and operation of foreign banks in our country, have been completely delayed. It is good that there is this amendment, because it draws attention to the shortcomings that clearly exist in the law that follows this point of the agenda, which is the law on banks and other financial organisations. We must ensure equality for both domestic and foreign banks, but we must also take care of what happened on this territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33019	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 71st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is there an application for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Chapter 7 of the proposed law regulates the relationship of the National Bank of Serbia to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so Article 71 provides for the National Bank to deliver a monetary policy programme for the coming year to the National Assembly for information and no later than 15 December of the current year. The National Bank shall submit a report to the National Assembly on monetary policy and a report on business and work results by 30 June of the following year. The National Bank shall report to the National Assembly on the situation in the banking and total financial system, etc. But what is most important here, in this proposed member of the law, is that the National Bank reports to the National Assembly only for information. So, the National Assembly chooses the governor, and then it cannot discuss and adopt his report, but it only receives his report and can neither discuss him, nor decide whether he agrees with the report, whether he accepts it or not. We have proposed, by amendment, that in Article 71, point 1 of the word "information" we replace the word "confirmation". So if the National Assembly can choose and appoint a governor, it has the right, completely legitimate, to receive a report from the governor, and then to discuss the report and to decide whether to accept it or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33021	Is anyone else applying for a part of the debate? No, I don't. ) The National MP Tomislav Panajotovic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 71st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Joca Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33022	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, together with MP Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 71. A bill of this law. The government's proposal envisions that the National Bank of Serbia submits an annual report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on monetary policy and a report on business and work results by 30 June next year. Also in this article, according to the government's proposal, the National Bank of Serbia submits an annual report to the National Assembly on the situation in the country's banking and overall financial system by 30 September next year. We believe that the proposed deadlines are inappropriate and there is no reasonable reason to be so long behind in delivering the report. Such a proposal by the government makes no sense, to deliver reports with so much delay. I ask what is the purpose of delivering a report on the overall banking situation in the country and the financial system until September 30th of the current year for the previous year? Such a report, at best, can be considered in the second half of October or November, and we know that the purpose of the review of the report is not only to determine the situation, but to draw some conclusions and to take action to improve the situation in the domain of finance or in the country's economic system. In order to remove such an illogical proposal from the government, we have submitted an amendment that by 30 March of next year, the National Bank of Serbia should submit a report on monetary policy, and by 30 May of the following year it is due to submit an annual report to the National Assembly on the situation in the country's total banking and financial system. I think the proposed deadlines in this amendment are reasonable and should be accepted, otherwise there is no point in staying until September 30th, when the report is being considered. In fact, something needs to be considered at the end of two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33023	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33024	The proposal to cut these deadlines makes sense, but I don't know if this is some new terminology, because the monetary policy programme is probably some new document. So far, we have had a decision on monetary policy, as a strategic document based on almost 90% of the central bank's activities. It is good here that the National Bank is obliged to produce the document and deliver it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 15 December. If this were to go to confirmation, then it would be quite the interference of the legislative authority in the independence of the National Bank. I think this solution is acceptable. However, it is good to propose a reduction in these deadlines, but it is much better that the government's representative also accepted that intervention, because the report on business and the results of work, as the proposings wrote in this article, directly denies their initial thesis set out in Articles 2 and 3 on the achievement of the functions of the National Bank of Serbia. It is a rule and it is desirable that there is one assembly committee that, if not every month at least, but once every three months receives reports on the work of the National Bank, on the situation in the banking system, on the operation of the National Bank, on the achievement of monetary policy, on the state of foreign exchange reserves, on the policy of the dinar course, on interest policy, on informing the legislative body, and to see which direction our economic policy is heading. We get that from a monetary institution, and that's a different view from what the government of the Republic of Serbia gets, and probably a different view from what we can find in the daily media, so sometimes there's a little more potential facts, some time an affair, which we can't and we don't have to believe. But when we scrape this data, the government is reporting to us, the National Bank is reporting to us, and then we get the right picture of what's in the state and what we can expect in some period that's coming. That is why it is necessary for these reports to be held more frequently at the meeting of the special committee that should be formed by the rules of procedure, which would follow the work of the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33025	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dragan Colic and MPs Marko Culibrk and Dusan Cvetkovic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Tomislav Panajotovic submitted to the 78th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Joca Arsic and Tomislav Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33026	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, as we have heard, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 78. I would like to remind you that article 78 speaks of what the capital of the National Bank of Serbia, of the core capital and the special reserve, the minimum capital of the National Bank of Serbia is 10 billion dinars and is formed from excess revenues over the expenditures of the National Bank of Serbia. Special reserves are formed at 20% of the surplus income achieved over the expenditures of the National Bank of Serbia, and the highest in the amount of the National Bank's share capital. In item 4, the remaining amount of surplus income over expenditure, reduced by the amount of revenue realised and after the allocation for special reserves, is the income of the Republic of Serbia. In this position 4, we have an amendment, where we propose that Article 4's position be changed and it reads: "The remaining amount of surplus revenue over expenditure, after the allocation for special reserves, is the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget." Our explanation for this change is that the government's illogical proposal to reduce the amount of surplus revenue paid to the Republic of Serbia's budget by the amount of unrealised revenue, and therefore the solution we propose to the amendment should be accepted as more comprehensive and useful for the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't think there's any broader design and explanation that's particularly necessary. I'm only sorry there's no minister here all day, and neither are those pretty ladies I asked about yesterday, which I'm even more sorry about. There's no one to hear us. I don't know if anyone will read this stenogram. There's only Mr. Mitrovic, who follows all this closely, and there's no one left. There's no president of one committee, no president of another committee, no group heads, we're a little bit left to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33027	Does anyone else sign up for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33028	What is proposed by the amendment is in all budget regulations, public income regulations and public expenditures. It's a simple standard. Excess revenue generated by the National Bank is paid to the state budget. Probably the billmaker didn't realize there was anything like it in the Budgetary System Act. If that's why he didn't prescribe it, then that's fine. It's already been regulated, but I doubt that's the reason. I think the opportunity is also to point out one problem that exists in item 2, where the underlying capital is given in the amount of 10 billion dinars, but we don't have the structure of that capital. Paragraph 3 states that 20% of the income is allocated to reserves, until the level of the capital is reached, and only then is this third part that goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. No one makes much on the basis of the central bank's surplus income compared to expenditures. That's a fact. I wish they could balance their incomes and expenditures, and we have a stable dinar, as many open jobs as possible, an external trade surplus, and prices stable to work and that we have a good salary. We don't have to slave for that extra income that's imaginary. In practice so far, due to long-term responsibilities, which is due to short-term debts, which due to the dubiosis from the period of seventy-something years, the National Bank of Yugoslavia has always balanced the income and expenditure side when it submitted its report on its business. Probably the reason for that is in the fact that they have some special costs. If wages, fees are taken into account, and now, especially the fact that the service has been reduced, it remains massive, with over 2,000 employees. The monetary government can't have so many employees. If all of this is taken and placed in one basket, then it can be seen well that we finally need one monetary board of the National Assembly, which will perform the right and control function over the National Bank of Serbia, all of its officers working there.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33029	No more logins for the word on this amendment. National MP Tomislav Panajotovic submitted to the 80th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Todorovic and Hranislav Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33030	counterparts Peric and Todorovic had to leave today's meeting earlier. The essence of Article 90 is that for a commercial offence under Article 89 of this Act, a court or another financial organisation may, at the time of the sentence, impose a ban on it to deal with a particular banking business of up to six months to 10 years. We think it's too much of a measure and change it to five, because this is about the extent of the ban on performance. Otherwise, this period of six months is very flexible, since there are other measures if someone has made a zian; then there are organs that do so on official duty. This is about something specific, and we think it makes sense that this National Assembly adopts. Of course, we are not imputed in any way to mitigate the criteria for responsibility, for people who do not behave in accordance with the rules that exist, but we still think that this is a long period of time. Ten years is too long. It's possible that during that time, alone or with the help of an institution, it can be re-orientated in a way that it can do this kind of work again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33031	Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33032	This member shouldn't exist. This is a fundamental problem, because the National Bank of Serbia in carrying out its control function towards banks has too much authority to say the measures, issue orders, undertakes other activities to force the bank to work in accordance with regulations, prevent the bank from going to risk placements, to preserve not only the basic capital of the bank, but also to save the role of citizens and what the state guarantees. The bank cannot be treated as any other legal person engaged in any other business activity. If a bank were to make a measure, the safeguard measure based on the commercial offence committed under Article 89, that it could not be six months to ten years to deal with certain types of banking business; one kind of banking business is also payment traffic; another type is credit operations; the third is foreign payment transactions, whether there are small and large powers and that I do not order other jobs. All these jobs are interdependent and allow one bank to run politics, directs to one or more jobs less or more activities. Since every business bank is under the patronage of a central bank, then the power of the Trade Court to impose a safeguard measure like this, it's really pointless, and if applicable, make sure the governor himself wanted to record in history that the bank was shut down by the Trade Court, not him. However, this one doesn't respect, he likes to go into history like the one he closes. This is a really pointless member, it doesn't mean anything. It is formally legal in accordance with the Law on Economic Crimes, but it does not mean anything in practice, because it is already being done by the Governor of the National Bank under the Law on Banks and Financial Organizations.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33033	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. They're not present. Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The proposing representative and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Culibrk and Milan Jankovic. Does anyone sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The proposing representative and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Members of the 92nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Sreten Mitrovica. Does anyone sign up for a word? Yeah. ) The proposing representative and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33034	We asked the amendment to replace the 2nd sentence of 10,000 to 50,000 with a fine of 5,000 to 30,000. We believe that this is too high a penalty, given that Article 1 already has a fine of 100,000 to 1,000 dinars for a bank or another financial organisation, and we believe that this second sentence is large in the position of 2. because it may occur that a person authorised by a bank or any other financial organisation, for any reason, is too late to deliver some insignificant paper, that in that case a fine and a responsible person for the offence that has been committed, which has been prescribed by the National Bank. So we're asking that this punishment in attitude 2 be reduced to 5,000-30,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33035	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran D. Nikolic and Milan Stankovic. They're not present. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Panajotovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Pajtic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, and the proposing's representative is not present, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and Other FINISH ORGANISATIONS (single) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta and joint MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee rejected, as an untimely, the amendment of MP Dragisa Marinkovic, which proposed that a new Article 30 and amendment be added after Article 29. The amendments rejected pursuant to Article 5 of the same article cannot be discussed at the sitting, and since we have conducted a joint principled search under which this bill has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33036	The essence of this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations is, in fact, this Article 7 and this article is a completely new section and consists of 11 members. All this is probably so written as to avoid amendments to all these members individually, since this whole article 7 or all of these new members are totally unacceptable, above all for giving unlimited authority to the governor of the National Bank in relation to the business banks. Probably the promoter knew that he was going to change the governor of the National Bank, that this so far-called governor hadn't done all the dirty work on the liquidation of Serbian banks, and then he's going to keep someone else, so that every corner of every street, we can see some new foreign banks, the exposures of these loan banks, where you're probably in charge and you're in debt, contrary to the law we talked about yesterday. Article 57b provides for, among other things, the establishment of any irregularities in the work of banks, and then says the bank will be sent a letter of reference. Of course, written notice is being given, a removal order is being issued, an emergency administration is being imposed, a work permit has been withdrawn. All that makes sense, except for this letter. Imagine that business communication being written by the governor of the National Bank with some bank manager, asking him nicely, to see how much this application will cost, or to hear that request. Accordingly, since I have provided for an amendment to delete this point 2), Article 57d is also deleted, which speaks of what should be contained in this love letter. In other members everywhere instead of that letter, of course, I anticipated a written reminder, which is the only possible form of communication between the governor and the banks. Article 57z states that the forced manager...
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33037	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33038	I'm sorry, it's not possible to explain 11 members in three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33039	Does anyone else sign up for a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Petric and Golub Rajic. A representative of the Proposer and the Finance Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33040	On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, together with my fellow Member, Mr Golub Rajic, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 and to a new member of the 57th draft of this law. In this article, the Government taxed the reasons why the Governor of the National Bank provides a solution to the withdrawal of the bank's work permit. Among other things in point 7(1), the governor is said to make a decision to withdraw the bank's license, and in other words it is said to liquidate the bank if the bank's financial situation deteriorates during the term of Article 57d. That Article 57d regulates that the National Bank, following the controls, shall adopt a solution requiring the removal of identified irregularities. This solution requires the National Bank to remove identified irregularities through the implementation of certain measures set out in 13 groups. I cite certain types of orders from that member, which, due to established irregularities, the National Bank may impose on the bank: to suspend the lending of individual persons temporarily, to suspend the allocation of funds for a certain period, to suspend the reception of new depositors, to suspend payment from the jury accounts, to suspend payment to abroad and to replace the director and certain measures that it can implement. There is little need for financial and economic knowledge to realize that in carrying out these measures to some degree, at least at first, the financial situation of each such bank will deteriorate. For example, due to the shift of directors, one number of depositors will surely leave the bank without saying how many other measures will scare individual depositors and that it will change the bank. If the Government's proposal remains unchanged, then surely the Governor of the National Bank could make a solution to the liquidation of each bank where certain irregularities have been identified. Why has the solution been made to remove irregularities during such a short period of time that the situation has to be improved? Really illogical. This option remains in all cases, because at least for a shorter period, and perhaps in some negligible amounts, there will be a deterioration in the financial situation of the bank. In order to prevent the governor's willingness to liquidate a bank due to relatively insignificant failures, we have submitted an appropriate amendment. We propose an amendment to the amendment in this sense that the governor can bring about a solution to the withdrawal of the bank's work permit if, during the duration of the deadlines for the execution of the orders for the removal of identified irregularities, the financial situation of the bank is worsened, provided that the deterioration threatens the standards of cautious banking psaling and that it worsens and threatens the financial situation of the bank, that it knows exactly what degree this deterioration is going to be, and then the permit to work, or to liquidate the bank, and not because of some insignificantness, as we had the situation in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33041	I'm warning you of an overrun of the time allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33042	I'm sorry, I'll be right back. There's not two sentences, and I'm done. The adoption of the amendments will achieve full responsibility in removing identified irregularities in banks, and by accepting amendments, it will also prevent the liquidation of banks due to insignificant failures and irregularities in their work, and I think it is the interest of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33043	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33044	In addition to this change of name and alignment with the newly created legal and factual situation, we essentially needed a new law on banks and financial organisations. Article 7 and with these 11 provisions, which give some new powers regarding the control carried out by the National Bank of Serbia, we are in a situation that we can now realise that the Governor of the National Bank and the Monetary Committee can withdraw permission, give a letter with a mandatory warrant, introduce temporary measures in all banks in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. These standards to which, as a reason and a condition for applying some measure, the caller's bill is so widespread and the question is a free assessment that it can really be concluded who is faithful, who is obedient, who follows privatisation with loans like that bank that has granted a large loan to an anonymous man from Capca and allegedly he paid for soy protein, and later it turns out that this man is maltene and doesn't exist. It is that obedience in the banking system that is being provided, that you do as the parties in power, executive authorities and the National Bank say, or Dinkic comes and closes the bank, introduces measures. The real example is probably that Karic's bank, where the basis for the launch of the liquidation, or bankruptcy, so the withdrawal of the permit, since it constantly changed the basis for the bank's decision to shut down, was risky, uncharging claims, excessive debt, unsecured loans that it approved, all of something arbitrary. Of course, the federal court annulled it. The same situation was in other banks. They did not endanger their core capital, they provided their claim based on the loan, but they ended up as they ended up. In this way, it is really given out of Dusan Mihajlovic's hand, which brings Dinkic together, to cut down what he still has in the banking system, and bankers are afraid of what will happen in the next two years. All of our domestic banks are able to obtain a loan to maintain their liquidity and participate in the privatisation process without having a domestic owner of the domestic economy, and they are threatened with shutting down if this is adopted as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33045	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33046	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the last amendment applies to the second law, and I will again, as an argument, give the governor's proceedings a few days ago. There must be a mechanism that restricts the governor from dealing with banks as if they were his private property. Taking away a bank's work permit is practically the bankruptcy of every business organization, and that the bank itself can't do anything if the governor, I say in the jargon, aimed at it, and banks can often be subject to different procedures, different lobbies, and I point out that again. This amendment makes sense that, in a very precise way, it directs the governor in a sense that he has to respect the rules when he does so and that he makes sure that he does not endanger the liquidity of depositors, clients, the potential of the bank. We had a chance to see that those banks that were liquidated, later in the bankruptcy process, were practically fragmented. I know Mr. Jelasic likes pictures, especially when he can buy them cheaply. It's not good that there's such a practice. I hope that one day we will have a report about how the assets of banks that Governor Dinkic liquidated, where the official cars, art paintings and objects, other assets were sold, what about the damage suffered by the depositors and ultimately, what about the shame that has been inflicted on citizens who have been saving in these banks. That's why it's important that there's always a legal tool that regulates how someone has to act if he comes into a situation that has to make some kind of radical move. In the end, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, Madam President, I would ask that we finish work for today, because we have been working really long, even though we who are in the O.R. all the time, have no more than 50 MPs here and I don't think there are any conditions to do the next item on the agenda. If I wasn't looking for a formal quorum, it would be good to finish today's work if possible, if not, of course, we'll do what we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33047	Is anyone else applying for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, the proposing representative is not present. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. As for your proposal, I remind you that the National Assembly has made a decision, and we'll respect that, that's up to 20.00 hours. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – Proposal for an Amending Law on ACCIAS LAW AND PROPOSAL OF THE CARINAL LAW (joint principled search) Please Members' Groups, or the Presidents of MPs' Groups, submit the lists with a word on this item of the agenda, in accordance with Article 90. Proposer's representative, I just got word, he needs to come. I'm asking, do the committees in charge want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. ) Do they apply for the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, do they have an application for a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33048	These two similar laws really seem inspiring to indicate that the foundation of every tax policy is material wealth and economic power of an individual, including a legal person. This is the only criterion on which to determine who and how much it takes through excise, tax and other public duties to contribute to the achievement of the government's functions and the development of society. This principle from some 1789 to these days was interpreted by our experts so that the salt for the diet, approximately, is the product by the quantity that indicates that whoever uses it is rich and that only using salt is the criterion that they can pay for the excise. Of course, the government realized that so far it was both logical and legally impossible, so the bill proposed that it be deleted, but at the same time they suggested that the excise tax should not be paid on luxury products. And luxury products are the best example on which the material social and economic situation of an individual is depicted. These products, the purchaser, prove by means of an act of purchase that he is economically capable of contributing more to the settlement of obligations that the state has towards its authorities, and in one part of the social community where the state appears as a guarantor. Now, you see, our government releases customers, releases the obligation to pay the excise duty of the buyer of the only real product and the example on which material wealth and economic status are measured. How can they convince someone that it's in the interest of Serbian citizens, as they can convince someone that it's a standard that applies in dear France, I don't believe anyone will understand any justification. Why protect the richest layer of citizens, those who are able to buy objects from crocodile skin, furry objects, gold, jewelry. We can't be some Arab country that's too rich, so she doesn't need a tax, because she's got enough oil. It is the first remark that could be made on this bill. Second, it just seems amazing. You remember since April 2001 when the first cigarette affair with the "BAT", when the government of the Republic of Serbia authorised Canet Sutotic-Zapca to negotiate on behalf of the government with the "BAT" to build a cigarette factory in Kragujevac, a major affair has risen. They all disputed any agreement, but those who were familiar with the affair and those helicopters, planes, had the opportunity to find out and inform the public about other things, that they were the real owners of the "BAT" conditioned the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enter into the process of building a factory and privatising the domestic tobacco industry only on condition that they were provided with guaranteed profits by amending excise laws and sales taxes, and so that, at some point, those as licensed, and now domestic cigarettes had the opportunity to charge excise duties as for domestic cigarettes. Instead of denying such a possible speculation, the Government confirms to us the amendments to this law and says that all those slanderers who said this in 2001 were the truth, here, came the day before the privatisation of the tobacco industries, we had to accept it and install it into the law. It is these few provisions, which are completely inappropriate and so far unrecorded, which are members of 40a and 40b, giving dynamics on how to move the level and amount of excise duty in Serbia from 2005 to 2010. I don't know how, whether to comment on this, I'm not sure those who have proposed a law like this think they're strong enough to push this through. This can be pushed into the National Assembly with cards, but there is an imminent conflict of interest in the market. Remember, Western Europe loses between four and eight billion dollars each year based on the transit of smuggled cigarettes through duti-free shops that go through this space, since there's a fifth channel here, and sometimes it goes through Montenegro, and now it's going. You can see for yourself that they are persecuting Milo Djukanovic and that all those hunches from two or three years ago are becoming a harsh reality. However, what Srecko Kestner said in an investigation into the Italian judicial authorities has proved true. Unfortunately, what the Zagreb National wrote is also true. It turns out it's all true. The judgments refer to the publication of the denial. You need to know the facts a little bit. The court rulings concern that the National is obliged to publish the deficits, which is why it is a pending procedure, not for defamation or damages to false data. Look, don't just watch Canet Subotic's website. There you can see a beautiful story of American success in Balkan spaces. Believe me, this man had to change his citizenship, buy Croatian citizenship at the time of the war, because of raised criminal charges that he fled to Cyprus and other countries and was hiding. Don't, at least be a little elementally armed with facts. Believe me, this tobacco will take so many heads into the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and it is possible after any speculation. After that stands Janko, Marko, organized crime, representatives of the previous government, remains of the previous government, anything can be said. Believe me, you'll only encourage the murder and destruction of those who have been in this business for a long time. You know information that's no secret. Dragoljub Micunovic received $500,000 from Canet Zappac in 1996 to assist demonstrations and protests in Belgrade. All of this has been recorded and made public. No more classified information. There have been so many disputes in Serbia over Stanko Sudotic Canet's lawsuits and he must never have appeared in court once. It's not even available in Switzerland at the address he reported, and it's unknown even for the consulate. Be careful. Obviously, the time has come for you to pay, or to meet what you took the money for. Some, I don't say all of them, some, and most of them I know it has nothing to do with it, because this job is done in a few pairs of eyes. Be careful, don't let yourself be a means of manipulation. Someone's got a little bit of a hand-me-down. Someone's getting their own basil wealth today. Regulations have fallen to regulate traffic with Montenegro and Kosovo and Metohija. The regulations have fallen. That's the logic, we know that the regulation doesn't comply with the Constitution, but it brings good results. It's a crime scene that says, I know it's illegal, but I'm doing it because it brings results. Get out of the way, people. There's a dangerous time. Dangerous. You release the fur from the excise payments, you release the gold from the excise payments, you introduce the excise on the court solution then.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33049	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised representative of the SPS group's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33050	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think it would be fair to accept Parliamentarian Rajko Baralic's proposal to interrupt today's work and to continue tomorrow, because it is obvious that there are no more than 50 and several people in this room and let us preserve the dignity of the Assembly, and this minister who has come to tell us something about a very important law, the system law on customs, or customs, because I think it would be deplaced to talk about it as deaf. Yesterday afternoon, we talked about the National Bank Act, and today, without his presence, we talked about amendments to the National Bank. I believe that he may have been present, that some of these amendments would have been seriously considered and might have been accepted. Like this, I think this is all kind of a rape of democracy. There are 53, 54 of us here and we can look for the quorum. So I'm not asking for a quorum, but I'm asking that as people, we understand the situation and it's untasteful to talk to 50 people about the most important law in this agenda besides the National Bank Act. Tomorrow we'll have over 100 people, 120, and maybe 130, so if we're working tomorrow and we should all hear that minister, no matter how different we are in the attitudes that we have under the proposed law. So, that's my suggestion and I'm asking you to come clean about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33051	I'm sorry, we can't plead, we need a quorum to decide. We have to respect the decision we've already made, which is that we've extended the time to 20.00 hours. If we do, because there's a difference between the working quorum and the decision-making quorum. I can't decide because I can't make such individual decisions for the entire congregation. I can't go past the National Assembly's decision. I'm sorry, but I can't accept the proposal. [[Jovan Todorovic talks next to the pay phone and you can't hear it.]] You're looking for a quorum? I ask the MPs to determine if we have a quorum. Please sit in your seat, MP. [[Sagar.]] Sit down, both of you. (It refers to Bojan Pajtic and Zoran Krasic. I ask you all MPs to take their seats. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. The word has been made by MP Dejan Mihajlov, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33052	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, is definitely that there is no quorum in the O.R. and that the service to do its job would undo all this, it would be 50 of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33053	People's messenger, I give you a warning because you have, in fact, rejuvened the congregation and its dignity. We were trying to determine the quorum. When I put a quorum determination, then the cards that are in the hall don't go into the quorum, if of course no one activates them. It wasn't that case, I followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33054	Please determine if there is, say, an MP of the Sutanovac, since his card was inserted. Let's see if he's here, and if he's here, let him answer. Well, let's see why you gave me a warning. Then we will read the names of the MPs and for many other MPs. I object to the reminder you gave me, given that it was completely opposed to this Rules of Procedure and that I warned that there were no MPs, and there are none, and there are no more cards. I think the way you run the Assembly is more threatening this assembly than one remark that there are more cards than the MPs in the O.R. To return to the subject of the agenda. I am very sorry that with every point that we start working on, which we agree on, you manage to spoil the atmosphere that could be created, pai about points that are completely acceptable to the DSS, which I think are very good and necessary to bring to an end the processes that have begun; you manage to destroy the atmosphere and bring us back to the situation of confrontation with both the government and the minister, regardless of what we agree and what we want to do is acceptable and what has been done in accordance with European standards. The basic objection to this law is the fact that the session with this agenda item is scheduled on Friday, about 6 or 7 p.m., when we received a meeting and when we learned about it through the media and that there are only a few hours left to write the amendment. For one law of 400 or more members to write amendments in five hours, I think it would be difficult for the minister himself who wrote the law to look at, check and make some additions, let alone do a serious analysis. But it is obvious that the intention was also to pass this customs law in a way that there is no serious debate, that is, to go through in one way that is not acceptable to system laws and that in normal parliamentary states it is not. In normal parliamentary states, a debate would be held that merits the organisation of a customs service and would allow both citizens and all MPs to become adequately familiar and have the opportunity to declare it. But, well, that's the way you work, and you'll certainly suffer the consequences of one such work, as, besides, I'm carrying the consequences myself, and I get constant warnings because I warn you that, let's say, Dragan Sutanovac and others are not in the O.R., and their cards are there. But it's an honor to you, and I believe that one day, when we warn you about it, you will say -- well, that was the atmosphere. Accises are also a law that is necessary and I would agree with Minister Djelic that he should definitely be brought in, given that the price of our tobacco industry - DIN and DIV is thus rising. That's something that's good. I think this is a good way to privatise our tobacco industry. We've had a procedure here that's highly acceptable -- we've passed the tobacco law, then we've changed the Excise Act, and now we're going to sell the tobacco industry. That's good, and certainly the price of the tobacco industry will be higher than if we hadn't done all this. That's how we protect these factories in the privatisation process, certainly British American Tobacco will buy the DIV, and Philip Morris will buy the DIN. It's already been known, and it's been some deals that have been going on for a long time. Cigarettes, like one product that fills the budget to a good extent, must be regulated with special attention. The procedure that existed, for example, at the tobacco law, did not exist in privatisation, say, sugar factory. At the sugar factory, if you look at the procedure used to privatise tobacco factories, it is not respected. We sold the candy without passing the sugar law. We've passed the tobacco law, prepared the terrain by bringing this excise law, we're going to privatise the tobacco industry, and we're sure to get the price by 10, 15, 20 percent higher than we did all this, and we're going to protect domestic agriculture with the obligation of factories, DIN and DIV, regardless of privatisation, to use domestic tobacco. That's how we did something that's very good for our industry. On the other hand, when we privatized three-euro sugars, we didn't do anything. No sugar law has been passed just to buy various finance from the Democratic and other parties candy for three euros. In this way we have two different arches for finished products that have the same nature and which should be treated the same way. We treated tobacco in one way, to say, a much better and better quality way, and we treated sugar in one better way for some parties' finances, but worse for the state, so we came into a situation where we sold three sugars for three euros each, that we had no anti-monopol law, and then we could get into a situation where one owner owns the largest number of sugars in Serbia, that it had a monopoly, and that we had no options and control. What did we do that way? This speaks of preparedness, i.e. unpreparedness and lack of will to address certain strategic issues in the country. This case shows that when the government wants one problem to be properly solved, there is both the ability, the will and the possibility to end it, it was an emergency session scheduled without the possibility of submitting an amendment or something else, but when there is a will, it is done. But when party members and party financiers need to be calmed down, then it's all prolonged, so sugars are sold for three euros, nothing else changes and we come into a situation where we sell one strategic industry for small money, we make a monopoly out of the one who buys sugars and thus damages the Serbian economy. If the same treatment had been done in the sale of sugars as in the sale of tobacco, which is well done, a completely different price would have been achieved and would have been a completely different price on the market. We would not be banned from exporting sugar to the European Union, because there would be control. We wouldn't have anything we have now. In this way, it has been shown that the irresponsible government is misbehaving in the same situations and that, when you are managed by interests, financial, party, personal, it happens that you are then going to meet the directors and other officials and finance parties and thus you provide for the financing of your party, although we will pass a law on party financing, but I certainly believe that there are very deep black funds from which various activities and various other things will be financed for the functioning of one party. The DSS will support these laws because these laws really change and adapt our customs system to the European Union and international standards. They're arranged according to them. The procedure is extremely well regulated by these laws, as is the excise law, and will increase the price of our tobacco industry in the tender, which is said to be opened on Tuesday or Wednesday, a tender for the sale of the tobacco industry. It is good and this government has thus shown that it can be done whenever it wants, and when it does not, then, of course, everything goes the way it does again. In this way, we see an uneven treatment in the same situations as the one that is rarely escalating with the failure of the Serbian economy. Today Governor Dinkic mentioned some corruption, money laundering. We have a situation here with sugar, exports to the European Union, the sugar situation and we're completely inadequate and we're misbehaving in the same situations, harmful. This cannot wash and remove responsibility from the government for some bad moves, but this is certainly good and will contribute to a better position of the Serbian tobacco industry in privatisation tenders.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33055	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, applying for a word? Yes, MP Jovan Todorovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33056	Mrs. Micic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is a shame that somehow by stealing this law, it was on the agenda of this session, and it was not for that purpose. It wasn't, first of all, because it was one comprehensive, comprehensive, and, if you will, a good law. There was no need for you to, in some way, trick us into putting us in a position that we couldn't give any amendment to this law. I am absolutely certain that these amendments would be very little and that we had the opportunity to endure them, that it was not by some shortened procedure that came on the agenda. It is clear that this is one of the most important laws from the point of view of the need to harmonize relations between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, and from the point of view of that goal, I think this law will also justify the objective and that all the funds provided for in this law will be used. I have to admit that I'm a little surprised by the government's approach that, initially in the final provisions of the law, it suggests something different in order and dynamics of the application of this law, because it was originally proposed that criminal provisions be applied in fact on the eighth day of the day of the publication of this law in the Official Messenger. The government's amendment now suggested that those provisions from Articles 330 to 406 be postponed and applied from 1 January 2004. I don't know what caused the government to submit exactly such an amendment, but I can draw a few conclusions, which can first of all go in the direction that the government is fully aware that the amount of punishment provided for in those criminal provisions may be inappropriate in economic time, however inappropriate the violations of which are spoken of in those provisions are such that it is justified to sanction them with very high and monetary and all other possible penalties. Speaking of penalties, it is quite clear that this law, I mean justifiably, introduces a new crime - smuggling goods into customs proceedings, and the subject of smuggling can be all kinds of drugs and weapons, and I don't know what else, which would be dangerous for the population and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And from that point of view, I think it might have been better to keep the proposed provisions than to change them by amending the government. The law is so well-conceived that it can be applied, but when you take customs tariffs that are to one extent or to a degree of 95% in line with the Republic of Montenegro, then we will realize that by applying these tariffs under this customs law, we will come to those situations that we have spoken of as socialists and many other MPs in this House, that our economy by applying these customs tariffs will be in the wind and exposed to terrible competition, which could at least be called unfair. Unloyal, not in that classical speculative sense, but in terms of the state of our economy and the competitive ability to withstand such competition that will follow. The law is systemically and will probably be applied for many years, as has been applied to the existing one that we are now abolishing by this law; therefore, from 1992 to 2003, but it has been passed in another time, in other economic, political and all other relations between Serbia and Montenegro. At that time, the state union and the state of Yugoslavia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, existed objectively, and Montenegro was fully incorporated into the economic system of the common state with the Republic of Serbia for at least a few years. Now that we're doing this and we're applying this law, I'm pretty sure we're gonna have a lot of problems. In concreteising what I'm talking about, I could mention a few examples that I think will be a matter of good interpretation or application, such as the concept of customs territory; and so far and this law say that the customs area - the territory of the Republic of Serbia is within its existing internationally recognised borders. The question is raised, but you must understand me correctly, not cynically, not infuriatingly, how we will apply this customs law in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija. Will we ever find enough instruments, in collaboration with the international community, in the application of this customs law? The issue overcomes the day-to-day political activity of both the government and this state. It seems to me that as a state, we must find a way to include the customs area as defined in both Kosovo and Metohija. You know that we have problems in all other segments of social, primarily economic life, such as examples of privatisation, such as some other areas where simply the state of Serbia does not participate, although it is quite clear that, based on Security Council Resolution 1244, this power now in Kosovo is a temporary character. The laws aren't passed for two or three years, so if you want five years, we're in the fifth year of that so-called. Protectorate in Kosovo and Metohija, when it is necessary to think about how we will get out further. Opening Kosovo and Metohija issues is not only current today. It was also current several months ago when late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic opened the issue very explicitly and very specifically with the international community. Unfortunately, what happened has probably prevented some activity that could, as a separatist or addition to this law, allow the state of Serbia to have some competences in Kosovo and Metohija in customs terms. The second term that appears here as defined for me can also be controversial, but not because it should not exist, but because it is not fully defined as a customs border belt. I wanted to use the right term from Article 7 of the Law, which says: "The customs border belt on land covers a part of the customs area of 15km from Serbia's customs line". However we now take these 15km from Serbia's customs line, we will have practical problems. I was just talking about Kosovo and Metohija, but if you take the border with Republika Srpska, you will see that the entire cities, such as Loznica, Ljubovija, Bajina Basta, Mali Zvornik, Bogatic, are located in that customs border belt. For the inhabitants of almost all of these municipalities, there must be a special regime in everyday life. It is one delicate question that the government, in the application of this law, will have to think about underlegal acts, because it is authorized to regulate all of this, in which status will bring the inhabitants of these municipalities. Whether the disaster that happened to them in the fall of Yugoslavia will be increased or some other treatment of those, particularly natural, if you want legal persons, will allow them to get lucky, because they are in the West, the East, or at the border with Kosovo and Metohija. This is one moment that must be delicately considered by the government, because it is not only about the application of the customs legislation from the point of view of the State's income, because customs income is one of the most significant, but from the point of view and from business, both social and any other activity in these areas. I'm going to stop here because I wish Mr. Djelic would take his word for it and say something more about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33057	The word has a finance and economy minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33058	Madam President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, representing the Excise Act. The law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and the new customs law, I'd like to say a few words. First about excises, and then about what's true and already a few MPs have said about this speaker that this is a real system law. Maybe these first few words about excises should still attract your attention, because they have a specific weight. The Excise Act is important, because excise goods are often sensitive goods, where smuggling is worth it, and therefore, in the tax process itself, it has a specific treatment. Something that's excise goods are immediately painted or taxed. It is not allowed to be taxed in the further flow of goods, only at the end of the cycle and what is the ultimate consumption, but because of the very sensitivity of the goods, it must be taxed or painted immediately. If we look at this proposal for a law on amendments to the Excise Act, we see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing two things, the first subject of which is harmonisation with the Republic of Montenegro and the provision of greater competition for our goods. First and foremost, it is proposed to abolish the excise on natural wine and that is very good news for all our producers, because we were the last country in the region to have an excise on natural wine. That is why our producers have been having more and more problems competing with Montenegrin and Macedonian wines. As we know, we have an agreement on free trade with Macedonia, which is good for the economy of the Republic of Serbia, because there are no multi-earths with which we have a positive trade balance. In the wine domain we have a big negative balance and our producers are waiting for this measure. That's why I think this is very good news for wine producers. In this way, they will be able to place their products on our market much easier, and then on other markets. This is then linked to some broader concept of agricultural policy, which in the Agrarian budget for the first time this year provided premiums per hectare of vines and thus we will upgrade, and the new Minister of Agriculture will surely propose this, in the Agricultural Budget for this year, which will be before you in a month, a more comprehensive strategy of the Republic of Serbia in the area of wine production. If we look at this time at a global level, it's one of the dams in agriculture that has experienced great development and especially what may be a chance for our producers, it's that with the already famous traditional manufacturers, such as France, Italy, Spain, there is a place and there is a taste of consumers everywhere in the world to try something new. There are wines, such as Chilean wines, or Bulgaria and now Montenegro, that have managed to place themselves successfully in international markets. We expect our wines, first on the domestic market and something else, to find their right place. In addition, it is proposed to lift the excise duty on gold, and this is one big incentive for Majdanpek, which improves the significant quality of production in the last two years. We know that there's an extremely difficult situation, we know why, it's nobody's individual fault, although there's that, there's been gold theft, but when the ore is getting poorer, there's still gold and that's a chance we shouldn't miss. There was a big problem with the application of the excise duty on gold, because with a few smaller products, such as salt and some luxury products, we were the last country in Europe to have such excises. This way we have harmonisation with Montenegro and that is the harmonisation of the plan that you adopted a few weeks ago, as well as harmonisation with the principles of taxation of the European Union. But the most important measure in the changes and additions of excise duties is what is proposed on a long deadline, in terms of taxation of cigarettes. Personally, I am very pleased that this measure is in front of you today and that you will, in all likelihood, vote on this as much as tomorrow, because it is a very nice possibility that the Republic of Serbia, at the moment when the ownership transformation is being prepared, i.e. The privatisation of the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje, will be able to vote unequivocally in advance on what will be the law and will give an indicatively very long deadline for those who want to deal with imports, distribution, cigarette production. It's an extremely sensitive industry. On Tuesday next week, when we open bids for the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje, we will see and harvest the fruits of the first two years of hard work to clean the cigarette markets on our territory. I have to say, at one point, it's going to flash, and it's going to be seen exactly how good the fight against smuggling was, which has made it possible for the first time in the last 12 years not to do business with the loss. Not only that, for the first time in 12 years, Nis has worked three shifts, wages have never been better, and business has never been better in the last 30 years. Not only that, in the last two years, these two domestic producers have taken up a very important market situation, almost two-thirds of the value of the market belongs to them, not to foreign cigarettes. The situation was reversed two years ago, and that's good news, not only for the tobacco industries Nis and Vranje, as local self-government, which will receive 5% of the privatisation of these factories, but also for the PIO Fund, for the restitution fund and mainly for our country that has proven, on what was a symbol of smuggling and the connection of top power with crime, that it is able to exorcise something by the end, although it is a plant that will continue in the years to come. Today, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act is another very big step in cleaning up the market on a long-term basis. If, honourable MPs, this week you vote these amendments and additions, you will send a strong message to all governments and all assembly members who come to make no changes in this sensitive domain, because before any of the possible candidates for the purchase of Nis and Vranja weigh their offers, you will send them a strong message that no one in the Assembly or in the Government is ready for any subsequent settlements, that the same archaic is applied to all, that all can be measured according to one tax policy, which is important in terms of value assessment, not only those factories but the whole market. There's that last element that hasn't been there yet, to clearly show that Serbia will not smuggle cigarettes, that Serbia wants to become a regional force in the area of production not only of cigarettes, but of tobacco. We have this possibility, when we already have that accident that we are one of the countries, with Greece, where tobacco is most consumed. And of course, when all this is round, the main, key topic should be to reduce tobacco consumption in our society. As long as we're going through it, it's important that we take advantage of that economic position as well. We also have the tobacco law that you voted on, the agency is established, its bodies are functioning, its statute has been made, a clear decision has been made that says there is a moratorium on the license to open new cigarette factories by 3 January 2005. It's 18 months, a reasonable deadline to ensure only those who participate in the privatisation, who win without closing the game for tomorrow. Of course, any licence, it's a theme for 2005, will be publicly organised and will be clear criteria by which they will be allocated. Those criteria are already in law. That way, and if you vote these changes and supplements, there won't be any chance of anyone attacking you or us that something dirty happened at the moment of privatisation, because it's all clear to everyone. What is predicted here, along with this element of moralization of work in this industry, is further supported by the fact that in the proposed changes and additions, what was the last element of discretion in the conduct of the tax policy towards cigarette manufacturers, or importers, is that the current three groups A, B, C, which allowed the Ministry of Agriculture to sort against some agricultural criteria, but which, through my personal experience in the last two years, have left a dose of discretion to see what a cigarette for Class A, B or C is. It is clearly placed here to know that, starting from 2005, it is almost. There are only two categories and that is crystal clear: cigarettes produced in Serbia and cigarettes produced outside Serbia. So there's no doubt about it, and there's no possibility of anything being overqualified into something that isn't. Not just that. In these proposed amendments and additions, we have convergence, i.e. a clearly drawn path towards what the standards of the European Union and the World Trade Organisation are, and these are our two key objectives. First, as far as the European Union is concerned, we have a directive of the European Union that requires not only members, but also candidates to join the European Union, to gradually bring their excise policy into line according to the standards of the Union. One of the things here is that the total tax burden for the best-sold cigarettes must be about 59% and if you look at these changes and the additions we make clear that we expect it to be reached in 2010. Do we, on the occasion of perhaps a small case, of this great question, of entering the European Union, say that we expect to enter then? No, we're expecting something sooner, we're hoping for something sooner. Prime Minister Zivkovic referred to 2007 as perhaps a little too ambitious, but if there is harmony, will and knowledge that is not impossible either, but in any case those countries for which the entry into the European Union was indicated in 2007, like Bulgaria and Romania, also have some period after the entry into the European Union to bring the policy into line. Poland or Slovakia, for example, is entering the European Union next year, will have three to four years to reach that level. As for the World Trade Organisation, the regulation of the World Trade Organisation, their recommendation, is that there is no discrimination against foreign producers through tax policy. We say and propose that through this law in 2010, it is indeed a fact, but -- and that is the last thing I want to point out here -- that does not mean that we do not give strong support to those who want to produce in Serbia's territory. Also, you can see, starting on 1 January 2005, there is a transition to the so-called a mixed taxation system, partly by percentage of the value of the package and partly by specific excise duty. This is what will allow us to first get close to the European Union system, which is just like this. But also, for what was produced in Serbia, a specific excise tax should be one dinar, and what was produced outside 10 dinars, and then in 2007 two dinars for domestic, 10 dinars for foreign, and in 2010, 5 dinars for both, and that is the way towards reconciliation with the European Union and with the World Trade Organisation. In the meantime, we see that our 15% customs rate on cigarettes is low according to regional standards. For example, in Bulgaria, the customs rate is 30%, in Croatia 42% and drops to 38%. And that's how we "add" the additional element, not to say it's protection, but it's actually additional protection, an additional incentive for domestic producers from about 30% to 40%, depending on the value of those brands or brands that are produced and their prices. What does that mean? This means that in 2005, we continue with that excise policy system that gave good results. Today we see it and we'll see it and we'll see it on Tuesday next week, but then we move on to a system where we clearly give a boost and increase the value of production on our market to anyone. This raises the strong value of our DIN and DIV factories and the same value of any license that will be given in the future. Thus, if we look at these measures, which were naturally discussed at large gatherings with all those involved in this industry, we give three key messages. The first is that no one will be able to just change the tax policy in the area of cigarettes and it must not become a practice, because a dose of flexibility must be kept, but not in the range of cigarettes and thus this privatisation has clear frameworks that will not be changed later. The second element is that we have a alignment with the international standards of the World Trade Organisation and the European Union and finally, we give a strong boost to the development of cigarette production on our market. It's not just something that raises the value of our factories. It raises the value of our market. It is, if we remember, thanks to the provisions of the tobacco law, which requires domestic producers to buy at least 50% of their production from domestic producers of raw tobacco, a strong incentive for our agricultural production in that domain, which was stronger and will thus be much stronger, and given that this important brand affects our external trade balance, because almost everything imports, raw tobacco, aromats, paper and equipment. Only for now do we have labour and packaging, and even packaging is imported to a large extent. We expect in this way that what has negatively affected our country's external trade deficit is gradually turning and becoming an incentive not only to come to a balance, but it has a sign because it seems to me that we have hit this really well in the last two years, that Serbia becomes a regional centre of production for at least two, and perhaps a little more large world cigarette manufacturers, which from here will cover regional markets and thus this dam should become a positive addition in the domain of our external trade. So much for these excises. A few words about customs law.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33059	I'd like to ask you, Minister, to proceed tomorrow with the debate on customs law, because it's been 20.00 hours and we have a decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33060	I won't be able to make it tomorrow. Just three sentences. So, what I'd like to say about customs law is very short. The system law, it comes at the right time, because it should also enable us to harmonize with Montenegro, which passed a similar law on April 1st of this year. It has been done according to European Union standards and I must say that in all contacts with the leaders of the European Union this law is not a condition, because I think we talk too often about having to do something because we have a condition, but because the European Union, which is clearly our largest market and all countries entering the European Union export at least 65% of their goods to that market, will today allow this law, first and foremost, to issue so-called. certificates of origin, without which there is no possibility of exportation to the European Union. One previous speaker spoke of sugar. Sugar, it's not just one element, an example of breaking the law. That's our system problem. We were unable to show the European Union the origins of goods, and that is at least the fault of the Republic government, because we took this job only in April of this year, and if there is somewhere to look for responsibility, it is the Federal Government, whose authority was this customs issue and this issue. We're on our way and we need to have one of these laws so that we can properly regulate and allow our customs office to issue those certificates of origin of goods. It's not just sugar, it's all goods. The European Union will only open its market to those countries, including our countries, which are able to prove that they have arranged the system to be able to issue these certificates of origin. The second thing, which is very important in this law, is that it gives much broader authority to those who work in the customs administration. Precincts, the possibility that they are not only on the perimeter, because today they have clearly indicated territory, it is Serbia's territory, and I will return to the AP Kosovo in a second. We here have the possibility that they're not just at the entrance to our country, but they're everywhere. And not just that. Modern methods are introduced that allow it to be no more, for those who want to smuggle something into our territory, a moment of tension just crossing the border, and then make sure that no one ever bothers them again. Thanks to the provisions of this law, follow-up checks will be possible under the model system and, of course, a much more professional organisation of these checks. In this way, those who want to smuggle will have to know that if the state misses them at the border, there is still a great risk of catching them later when the goods enter our territory and in this way we will enter what is a much more effective fight against smuggling and tax evasion that happens through customs. I would also like to point out that we have a complication with the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. So Resolution 1244 is a reality and we have to organise it, and it is made possible in this law, in a valid sublegal way, that, of course, we consider AP Kosovo and Metohija part of our territory, which is provided for in this law, but also to mitigate the reality of our organs' non-presence in the territory of the autonomous province. In this way we will allow customs work to, on the one hand, enable our producers to place their goods on that part of our territory, and on the other hand we have records that there is no return of that goods that has been made available in some way so far. As far as Montenegro is concerned, she's in Head IJ here clearly foreseen and here we have, let me say, two aspects. The first aspect is the necessity of harmonisation, a joint office at the level of the state community, but at the same time, to avoid tax evasion, even after harmonisation, to allow one normal functioning and security of our markets, we will have to continue to record goods and this will take some time. What is important is that the infrastructure is being monitored, that there is no delay, that the records are done, so that what is shown in the books, in the statistics, as Serbia's surplus towards Montenegro, there is that, but not to the extent that it is shown, unfortunately these figures are partially Serbian tax evasion, and that our citizens, legal persons say that the goods are going further for sale in Montenegro, the papers are being closed there, when there is no record, and in fact the goods remain untaxed here in Serbia. In this way, we, what we started, will do better on that administrative border with Montenegro, and we will have to recognize that reality until it exists, and there is no indication that there will be a single customs administration so quickly, with one law at the level of the state community, we will have to have that complication for our businessmen, but we will try to make it as small as possible. Finally, what's very important is that this law is the same law on customs administration. It allows much greater authority for those who operate, much easier resource allocation. Finally, this is done in parallel, expecting the vote of this law, new systematization, new functions, a new information system and a new attitude towards those doing customs work. Unfortunately, a small minority gave a poor voice to the Customs Administration, and as we know, as you have probably heard, a number, somewhere around 200-300 people will not even be taken over in the new systematization of the Serbian Customs Administration, because they have proved to be unprofessional or corrupt and they will not be taken over. On the other hand, it is very important that we allow all those who work in the customs administration to do their job honorably, because believe in these last few weeks, where for the first time customs duties are under the same roof as tax administration, I have seen how many professionals in customs, who want nothing more than to restore honor and reputation to one very important institution, which may be similar to what is going to happen at all the border crossings, and with the military and police, want to ensure that only those goods that can enter our territory, which, I say, are properly decorated and thus provide what is not normal business activity, which is one market that is provided and has its integrity. I'll say, and I'm sorry we don't have a little deeper discussion about this system law, he's been preparing for a year and a half. There was one big debate, so this public debate lasted and I simply urge you to vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention and for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2003-07-17-0.u33061	I thank Mr. Secretary. On the basis of Article 81(4), I'm setting tomorrow as a working day, so we continue the debate, and I'm also setting tomorrow's voter day. Have a good time and thank you for your patience. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2003. I find that the use of the electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to pay our respects to Private Pavel (Pavel) Krajci of Bačko Petrovec, a member of the 252th armored brigade in the King, who tragically died yesterday in a barracks in the King. Praise him. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Marko Jaksic, Aleksandar Stefanovic, Stanko Kovacevic, Miroslav Markicevic and Kasa Jožef, and in the morning Velimir Simonovic. We move to item 4 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCIASES AND A PROPOSAL OF THE CARINAL LAW (addition of a joint principled search) I ask if any of the representatives, i.e. the president of the parliamentary groups, would like to take part in the debate on this item of the agenda? There's no sign-ins. We continue the debate against the declared word in the principle debate. The word has been made by MP Veroljub Arsic, the SRS parliamentary group, the next reported by MP Zivanko Radovanchev, the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
