ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12866	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 101 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. I inform you that today they are justifiably prevented from attending, Miroljub Stamenkovic, Jasmina Karanac and Gjorge Komlenski. We are continuing a joint, principled, unique search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 27 of the agenda. There's a word, first on the list, from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12867	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, today I will talk about the loan agreement, the second programme loan for the development and restructuring of state-owned enterprises, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In particular, it should be said that in the 1990s, the Republic of Serbia experienced wars in the environment, then recession. From 2008 to 2012, layoffs, mass layoffs of workers from 350 to 400,000 workers, and between that of robbery privatisation. Fortunately, in 2012, by defeating the SNS, this country has avoided bankruptcy. We'd be, unfortunately, like Argentina. Thanks to SNS and Government, we have results today that are at an envious level. In fact, no one in the last 15 years has had the strength, the will, the knowledge to lead this country to the level it is now. In fact, in the last two years, it has been moving towards reforms that, unfortunately, are very painful, but bring results. As for 2008 to 2012, the unemployment rate was 27%, today 16%, with a tendency to make that percentage 14% next year. As far as restructuring is concerned, with the help of the World Bank, we have received a loan of 89 million euros and the company's mass will be consolidated. What does that mean? She'll be cured. It's been a long time, we're a country in transition. However, this transition has been going on for quite a long time, almost 20 years. From a corporate management method, it is slowly moving to a market economy or corporate way of doing business. The market economy is what the whole world has, so slowly we're going with the market economy and us. The Republic of Serbia is not a country for sale. Not every part of it can be sold out. In fact, the Republic of Serbia is the founder of 37 companies and public enterprises. All these companies will be restructured. A great social program with trade unions from those companies that I'm about to talk about, as well as with the World Bank, is being created for a mass of companies. "Serbian Railways", for now, have the best programme ever. It's a social program. The "Serbian Railways" are divided into four segments and none of these people will be on the bureau without severance. Of course, there's a natural selection of people who need to retire, they're going to go, the rest goes to the bureau, and the company is having a complete reorganisation, i.e. complete management is going to one level and it's going to be corporate management of these public enterprises. Also, for companies of strategic importance, such as "EPS" and "Srbigas", consolidation has been prepared. Which means a corporate way of turning and rebuilding structures in the way that the whole of Europe, or the whole world, does. If we play the competition, we'll be on the market if we're competitive, the game goes, if not, unfortunately not. What needs to be pointed out is, above all, the privatisation of the Irons, one of the strategic firms of the Republic of Serbia. Fortunately, our Chinese friends, the company Hessil, bought 46 million "Serb Railways" and today "Serbian Railways" are operating. None of these people were fired. The city of Smederevo is growing again. What's best to point out is that the company that bought "Zelezar Smederevo" invests in human resources, which means it's trying to make sure that all the people who are employed there, first of all, are educated, have a fantastic environment, so it deals, first of all, with environmentalism. What's most important is that he wants to expand production. It is now a galvanization that is necessary for the entire automotive industry, as well as for the construction. Bravo. What is also an example of good practice is finding a strategic partner. We did so with a large company, our former JAT, which was completely in front of copper, as well as large companies, mostly all over Serbia. Today, it is the new company Er Serbia, which has found an excellent strategic partner, who is doing excellent business and we are now the leader in the region. In fact, we're flying all the land around. Last year we had four million surpluses or profits, and, of course, employees of two and a half thousand workers. "Er Serbia" has also hired 150 other workers since we fly to New York, which means 30 pilots and 120 cabin workers. Bravo for "Er Serbia". Everything we get from profit we invest in new fleets and human resources. What's the point of the whole reorganization story? First of all, to dissipate the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then to have a corporate way of managing, to have supervisory committees that will control the entire economy and all these businesses and ultimately achieve and bring strategic partners. I'd just like to say two words about Corridor 10. Someone said, "Why Corridor 10?" Because it is high time to end, primarily for the safety of citizens, and then because it is a transit country, the full budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention. The Serbian Progressive Party will vote on all proposals for these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12868	Thank you. The word is Alexander Stevanović. He's not here. Snow White Punović, is she there? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12869	Thank you. In today's debate, I will talk about several draft laws, and in this regard I would first refer to two media laws. On the proposal of the Law amending the Law on Public Media Services and the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Temporary Editing of the Method of Payment of Taxes for Public Media Service. Both laws concern financing the basic work of public media services. It's RTS and TV. According to current legal solutions, RTS and RTS are financed predominantly from two public sources. One is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the other is the tax paid by the electricity bill. These legal solutions are armed because they are wanted for permanent financing solutions, in fact, to finance the realisation of public interest in the field of public information. Each state has its own media house which has the task of achieving a general, public interest in the field of information. This public interest is protected by impartial, independent and objective information, media promotion of social values, quality education and cultural software content. On the quality of the programme, public media services must differ from other commercial media and from televisions whose goal, above all, is profit, not content quality. Therefore, commercial television resorts to various content that could not be said to be, not even decent, let alone educational or informative. We are daily exposed to floods of various reality programs that spread an inadmissible low level of media communication. Instead of promoting creative and successful, on screens are often unsuccessful, compromised, undereducated, and violence is not excluded. In order to avoid the commercialisation of state media houses, I mean first of all RTS and RTTV, public sources of funding for their basic work must be provided. From that angle, I personally observe these two amendments. The Law on Public Media Services stipulates that RTS and TV are financed in part from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This way of funding was armed on December 31st this year. On the other hand, the Law on the Temporary Editing of Tax Payments for Public Media Service provides a second, or additional source, which is a fee of 150 dinars charged with bills for electricity supplied. And this source of funding as a temporary one was also planned until December 31st this year. However, the fact is that no other funding models have been found in the meantime and that public media services that have a public interest in the field of information must be provided with material conditions to carry out basic work. In this sense, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted in the beginning of the month, defines the funding of four billion dinars at the position of the Ministry of Culture, so that, by amending the Law on Public Media Services, we only extend the deadline for their budget financing and in the next 2017, precisely until 31 December 2017. With defined budgets, the amount of a fee of 150 dinar is in the function of providing a stable system of financing the basic activity of public media services, their editorial independence and institutional autonomy. At the same time, I think the economic side of the taxpayers was taken care of first of all. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports the stable financing of public media services so that they can carry out informative activities in the public interest, to produce quality own software content, to enrich software schemes with educational and cultural content above all, so that we can distinguish public media services by content from commercial televisions which do not have an important effect that is achieved but exclusively the profits they make. As a member of the Committee on Information and Culture, I would also refer to the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, i.e. REM. I must say that two missing members of the REM Council were proposed after the procedure was conducted in accordance with the law. The candidates we are discussing today are candidates proposed by authorised proposings, associations whose aims are to achieve freedom and expression and protection of children, i.e. universities accredited in the Republic of Serbia. The election of these two candidates completes the composition of the REM Council so that I believe that this fact will also contribute to the even better work of this regulatory body that has a legal obligation to take care of the quality of our media space. In addition to these laws, I would like to refer to and talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, above all about amendments relating to the abolition of the tax advantage for food and baby equipment. The VAT refund has been lifted since 1 January 2017, as foreseen. It is obvious that the Government and the Ministry of Finance have decided to abolish this measure because according to their analysis, it did not give a major effect. We know that young parents mean every incentive measure, but we think it will be more appropriate to announce an increase in the parental supplement that will cover all young parents, not just certain social groups. The parental allowance will cover a number of users who will not have to go through long-term and complicated procedures for collecting fiscal accounts. As announced, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance will also include changes to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. As the Socialist Party of Serbia advocates the policy of natality incentives, in this sense we also support all measures of government that can achieve this goal, as long as the minister, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, in addition, is in charge of taking care of family and nationality, because we are aware that if we do not take measures and urgent steps, we will become the oldest nation in Europe. In this context, I would like to propose and ask the Government to amend the Family Financial Support Act with children, in preparation for the possibility of increasing, above all, the amount of parental allowance that belongs to the first, second, third and fourth children under the condition that the parents are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our proposal, however, is also to look primarily at the possibility of cutting the deadlines for this supplement, which is now paid for for the second, third and fourth months of the war, and we consider it to be a long period of time and to take a more social aspect instead of being an incentive measure to give birth, i.e. support to a family who wants to have more children. Why am I saying all this? I'm not gonna bother with statistics, but, for example, The parental allowance for the second child is 149,666,043. In 24 equal wars, as currently paid, the war is 6.236 dinars. For that reason, I think it would be useful to pay one such amount or increase for a certain measure of one-off, one-month level really looks more like social aid than an incentive. So, I would like to point out that a much better announced solution is to increase the parental supplement and reduce the deadlines for its payment than to return VAT for purchased food and baby equipment. I would also like to mention as a social and stimulating measure a child's supplement even though it is not related to the VAT law. I would use the government's announcement and a statement by Minister Brnabic that the law on financial support for the family with children will change. In this regard, our proposal would be to consider the possibility of a change in the censorship of this right, but also the possibility of increasing the child's allowance. The children's allowance from 1 October 2016 to 31 May 2017 is 2,675 dinars, i.e. 3,477.57 dinars, and the right to an increased amount of child's allowance is increased by single parents, fosterers, guardians, parents of children distracted by the development act of classification, which is not placed in a stationed institution. Census for exercising the right to a child's allowance since 14.11.2016 has been achieved and amounts to 8.377 dinars, i.e. 10.052 dinars, an increased amount. I hope we all agree that these are small amounts and extremely low censorship. The fact is that this measure requires a larger budget, but also that we need to take all measures to encourage birth and the rise of birth. In the end, I have an obligation to say as someone coming from KIM territory that Danica Marinkovic, who was proposed as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Council, is an ideal solution for me. There was a talk here about her biography that was too wide and she may have gotten into the details, but I really appreciate that given the fact that she was proposed to be a member of the Council of an anti-corruption body, Danica actually tried to explain in her biography that she belonged to a family that is spotless and which absolutely gives her the right to be more a kind of expert, unpromised man, or woman becomes a member of an organ like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12870	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12871	Madam President, the SRS has nominated Miodrag Skulic as member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and indeed we have an excellent economist, an excellent candidate. However, as Belgrade's biggest scum and scum rose up against Danica Marinkovic's candidacy, led by Sonja Biserko, Natas Kandic and others, and since the worst scum and scum had their own exhibits in the National Assembly, we, Serbian radicals, are giving up our candidate's candidacy. We will run for second time for a similar function and support Danica Marinkovic's candidacy because we believe that the entire National Assembly should thus stand in its protection. It deserves protection, especially by breaking up a major international conspiracy, attributing war crimes to the Serb military and police in the village of Racak. Testifying as a witness to the defence of Slobodan Milosevic, she exposed it all. With great pleasure, we'll vote for her. So you can count on her not being against the candidates now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12872	Thank you. I've also consulted with Vice President Verico Radet. Just one sentence to sign, to withdraw the candidacy. Thank you. The word is Jahja Fehratovic. He's not here. Is Anna Ciric there? The word has the People's MP Ana Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12873	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Socialist Movement Group, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party will support this set of laws in the voting day, because we believe they will positively affect the quality of life of citizens. I will start with the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. As we already know, the discussion here was about the VAT suspension and the baby equipment. I'd just like to point out that we're not talking about abolishing parental rights here, we're talking about a different way of paying off. Namely, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children will be paid once. Last week, Minister Brnabic spoke about the project "The Baby Welcome to the World", she spoke of a simple procedure, without additional documentation, which will allow children to be registered in maternity homes. In addition to this procedure in the same place, this one-time assistance will also be paid, which makes it much easier for parents, because there will be no need to collect additional bills, because all parents will be absolutely involved in this procedure and absolutely no harm will be done to their parents because this law will only, so the VAT refund will only be lifted when the law enters into force. These changes are closely linked to the government's social policy, for the reasons that the ministries are, coordination between the ministries is very effective, which is why a law like this can be on the agenda today. Social policy is consistent, it's stable and really uncompromising when we talk about this government's policy. We are not talking about some numbers here, but we are talking about 700,000 people, the users of social assistance, for which the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat and Social Affairs struggles daily. The Socialist movement is very supportive of this government policy. We are proud that no single dinar of social contributions is reduced during the period of savings, and especially as a woman, I am proud that now women who are the owners of agricultural land, women who are employed by different types of contracts will be able to receive compensation for their maternity leave. I'll take a quick look at the law on the takeover of stock companies. In fact, we're all very focused on how companies were sold and bought during the Dossovian government, at which prices. We are very directed that only in 2006 was the law of this kind passed, meaning the Act on the takeover of stock companies, which tells us that certain owners of a larger number of shares and capital were able to buy actions however they wanted from minorities. The Investment Funds Act was first introduced in 2007, meaning that tycoons had absolutely no competition during their government. Unfortunately, this has left great consequences for this country's budget, but we are extremely happy and pleased that today's Law that we are discussing will help greatly the position of minority shareholders. We have also been able to listen to the waste of money in the empty aiding of Petrochemy and the taking over of its debts. We were able to see that it was forgotten here that people feed their families, people who work there, that it was the only factory of this kind in the environment. We forgot that these debts were inherited and we forgot that we had to maintain the current business of every company in our country. These debts were incurred during UN sanctions, they were created during the friendly bombing of the NATO Pact, which is why I am extremely happy that we will never enter the NATO Pact, they were created, and no one intended to take responsibility for it. This government is responsible, this government protects its citizens, this government will also repay the debts of its predecessors who have led a bad policy, but will also repay their debts to which it has financed investments and new jobs and a warm meal of folk cuisines. This government is responsible, we know what we promised the citizens, we will keep it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12874	Thank you. Is Jasmine Nikolic here? It's not. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12875	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group will support this set of laws, and I will pay close attention to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. In February 2016, the National Assembly first passed a law that was supposed to regulate the pay system for about 500,000 public sector employees, so that all budget users are set out the uniform principles regarding the criteria – equal work and equal pay for all. In this way, public sector should be stimulated for further reform steps until the basic objective is achieved, which is effective, rational, professional and transparent public administration, i.e. local self-government. This also applies to all independent bodies and institutions whose founders are republics, AP and local self-government. We know that there is no well-organized state without a well-organized, professional public administration, public sector in general. In order for the public sector to be professional and quality, it was essential to address the equal status of all employees and to balance the status of employees in local self-government, the AP with state administration employees and public services. The Public Sector Payments System Act provided for specific laws to take into account the specificities of certain parts of the public sector and to regulate the equal status of salaries and other remuneration of employees in public services, AP bodies, local self-government units, public agencies and other bodies and organisations established by the Republic, AP or local self-government units. The deadline for the adoption of these specific laws was 1 January 2017. Also, by 1 January 2017, the provisions of this law were to comply with the laws governing salaries and other remuneration of employees in state authorities. In order to pass these specific laws, in particular those concerning wages in local self-government and the AP, the Government, following the adoption of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, adopted a Regulation on criteria for the classification of posts and criteria for the description of posts of AP officials and units of local self-government. On the basis of this Regulation, local environments have been tasked with collecting all the necessary data to continue disbanding and qualifying jobs, thus defining salaries and other remunerations of employees at the AP level and local self-government unit. As this law is passed for the first time, and should cover more than 500,000 public sector employees, it is obvious that it is necessary to give a deadline for the adoption of specific laws that will regulate equal status and salaries of employees in local self-government and AP, and it is necessary to extend it, as this bill does. Therefore, it is not easy to pass a quality law and even wages and take into account all specificities of certain parts such as. Education, health care, make a fair model so no one gets damaged. On the contrary, all specific wage laws should contribute to improving and equating the position of employees, in order to achieve the principle of the same work – the same salary. I'd say this is crucial. It would be wrong, and the whole strategy would be counterproductive if this goal was not achieved, and it would be better to extend these deadlines than to bring bad laws. In that sense, the SPS parliamentary group will support this law as well as all the laws we are considering at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12876	Thank you. Vladimir Djukanovic, he's not here. Nenad Christmas, it's not here. Ivan Karic, he's not here. Milos Boskovic, he's not here. Dubravka Filipovski, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12877	Thank you. I'm going to use the MP group's time to make a few findings and ask a few questions about the laws we're discussing at this session. First of all, when it comes to the Public Sector Payments System Act, I would have a few questions. The first question is, how far has this law been prepared, will this deadline given the complexity of the subject that we have and the third question is, in your opinion, Mr. Minister, if you have an answer to that question, will it be extended, in view of the complexity of the subject we have, and the third question is, how much is it in your opinion, if you have an answer to that question, covered by public sector workers in this law? Also, for the amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act, I believe that the absolutely accurate findings of the promoters are that market abuses are such as to distort market integrity and that the protection of market integrity is one of the most important elements for increasing the efficiency of the market itself and restoring investor confidence. That's why my question is how to gain investor confidence, especially from foreign investment funds, which, through their professional management, carefully observe the situation in the world capital market and disperse capital that manages, assessing both the potential to maximise profits and the security of investments? Also, I wonder what the state has done to the foreign creditors of Agrobank? Do we have, as foreign creditors announce, arbitration in front of an international court? National MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia daily receive questions from the creditors of Agrobanka. Also, I believe that the capital market has become largely globalized thanks to information technologies and that most of the domestic investment public chooses to invest in other markets, which is just being enabled by global networking of global markets and by way of the banks offering increasingly significant approaches to investment in the world market. That's why my question is how to motivate even domestic investors to favour trading and our stock market? The proposals for this law are expected to significantly improve the situation by improving legislation and that we will have the first measurable results in about three years. My conclusion is that it is necessary to offer quality market material, otherwise we will not have measurable results in the next 30 years. In my opinion and in the opinion of my colleagues from the NS parliamentary group, it is necessary to offer three things for a better situation in the country's capital market. The first is to make it possible to go out on the stock market for the remaining public enterprises of Serbia, which is where I primarily think about Telekom and EPS, and then new financial instruments are needed. First of all, charters of values broadcast by units of local self-government. And the third, very important thing, is an initial public offering. No one has been implemented in Serbia yet. The result of the lack of this is that the largest number of domestic operators has no chance of reaching fresh financial resources in the way it is done in developed countries and the finding of the legislators of this law is that financing the economy through bank loans is an absolutely dominant model of financing in the Republic of Serbia, which cannot possibly be good. What is missing at this point, and certainly would be necessary, is better integration and co-operation of the Securities Commission, as a capital market regulator with judicial authorities and institutions. The observation and experience is that our judiciary, in general, does not have the capacity needed to act effectively in this specific area and that judges are mainly engaged in the art of economic professions in order to make any decision, even when it comes to elemental matters. When it comes to amending and supplementing the law on the takeover of stock companies, my question is whether there is a strategic definition in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the future of the capital market and the Belgrade Stock Exchange, as its segment, because without regulating this issue in the EU Serbia will certainly not be accepted, with another finding that the MP NS in the voting day will support the drafts of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12878	Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the place: I quit. ) The word is Vesna Ivkovic, not there. Sasa Radulovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12879	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had a debate, that is, a conversation with the Minister before with regard to these laws that have been passed, that is, 27 points of the agenda. We've heard from the minister in her statement that it's not so bad because we've had this before, so I guess a huge number of laws have been passed before at one session, let's say this session where all 27 points are placed in one, 27 points and my 20 minutes of exposure is 45 seconds per item of the agenda. Practically some meaningful discussion has been disabled, I suppose the minister understands that the fact that someone has done the wrong things in the past doesn't justify this government or the last four, five years doing the same things. Citizens expect a change, or we expect that we do not have such a session where 27 points are discussed at a united point. The debate is practically impossible. What we heard from Minister Antic about Petrohemia, which I will remind myself, this law requires Serbian citizens to give 105m euros, or about 13 billion dinars for the debts they have, Petrohemia has according to NIS, so the minister explained that in fact Petrohemia is progressing as they have prepared UPPR, how everything is going in the right direction, the only problem with all this is that none of these documents are accompanied by the law. All they ask of the MPs is that they accept to take over the backs of the taxpayers, 13 billion dinars. If we look at a little bit how the budget, or the way the budget has been adopted and how savings are foreseen, 20 billion dinars have been taken from the pensioners, so we can actually say that in the pensioner by giving up pensions they have paid for incompetent management, or they will pay for the incompetent management of Petrochemia of 13 billion dinars. That he is not an isolated case tell us, let's say, the data on the implementation of the budget in the last three years 2014, 2015 and 2016, where we have 30 and 35 billion dinars, how many taxpayers each year took on the public undertakings' liabilities to the debt guarantees they made. So 95 billion dinars over the last three years have gone to the incompetent party leadership of these public enterprises, while 20 billion dinars have been taken from the other side. This petrochemical thing just keeps going in the same direction. This super-sick 2017 budget, which continues to provide for the government to drag its hands into the pockets of citizens and businesses, to take pensioners, teachers, doctors, nurses, on the other hand, to give incompetent party management of public enterprises and to give money to foreign investors, that the budget foreseen 47 billion dinars on behalf of the payment, i.e. the payment of guarantees for debts that public enterprises cannot settle. So that's it, this lack of order that we're talking about where citizens are saving their lives, saving their businesses, reducing their deficits on the other hand, the government is practically doing nothing to bring order and that these and these losses are reduced. Because if they were not there, there would be an unnecessary reduction in wages, a reduction in pensions, an increase in excise duties or the introduction of electricity excises, etc. So the problem is, there's no law. Of course it's necessary to reduce the deficit, but not in this way. Then we also heard from the minister about the fantastic results of Petrochemy, which have been recorded only by success since 2012, and I haven't been able to get a line, but what he said, it's in the fairy tale area. I don't know if those fairy tales were written by the Andersen brothers or Brother Grimm, but they're fairy tales anyway. Well, when we look at Petrochemy business in the last five years, we see lower losses from year to year. For example, in the previous year the total net loss was 1.4 billion dinars, in 2014, 11 billion dinars, in 2013, 11.8 billion dinars, in 2012, 12.3 billion, etc. Back up. It means constant big losses. What seems to be going on at the hand of Petrochemia, which is a good thing is a decline in the cost of materials on the world market, so the cost of material is, for example, reduced from 42 to 27 billion in 2015, these 15 billion in fact is a contribution to positive business rather than the introduction of order in Petrochemy, unfortunately. Of course it's possible to introduce order, it can be introduced into any company and it's done quite simply that restructuring has been known in the world for years, dozens of years. So, you list the assets, you make a ID card, you evaluate the value of the property, you do some business plan, market analysis, investment plan, and then you approach it. If the government had been serious about this, that would have been all the data we would have received with the adoption of this law, unfortunately, we haven't gotten that. What we haven't talked about yet is a whole series of loans that the state of Serbia needs to take, among other things, a loan for the privileged buyer, for the construction of Surcin – Obrenovac, part of the road, where the Chinese "Export-Import" bank gives $198m to "Cina Communication Construction Company". So this is what bananas do when they're in charge of other countries, and then their companies actually help their gross social product in this case it's for China. However, the same situation is with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development where our construction firms don't get jobs, but they get foreign companies that then leave crumbs for our companies. This way, of course, the domestic construction industry is being destroyed, this is something the government shouldn't and shouldn't do because it's not in favour of domestic economy. So a few very similar loans that treat this matter the same way. The state of Serbia should know, or the government should know that when infrastructure is being built and we are already in charge of this money, that money should go into domestic economy because it is the only way the whole process, or the project, is worth the money to go to the growth of domestic gross social product, and not to give to foreign corporations, who then with privileged, non-position, sign a contract with our businesses and practically do us harm.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12880	Thank you. Your task force has now wasted its time. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to get Pink Panther out of here, since they're distracting me. A member of 106th and 107th was injured and I'm asking the service to pick up these cards so the door closes to run some sort of order here. Article 106, Article 107. Dignity and speaker can talk about the agenda point. First, he did not speak of the agenda point and the dignity of this parliament was injured by calling the state our country "banana" state. I believe he was a minister, I believe he's an MP now, but he has no right to insult the dignity of this National Assembly, because he insults the dignity of the voters and all those who sent us here. It is the second time that it violates dignity in the National Assembly by talking about "Petrochemicals" about dragging your hand into citizens' pockets, etc. I believe that as a bankruptcy manager, he has first on his pain, in his suffering that he has not obtained a massive bankruptcy called Petrochemy Panchevo. I believe he...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12882	Ambassador, please, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12883	Of course, he does not have the right to violate dignity, regardless of his intention to obtain another massive bankruptcy in a certain way. Madam Chairman, I ask you, this is the second time he has spoken of these 13 billion as something the government has robbed in a country he has called "banana" state and I think that no matter what he has run with 15 companies, regardless of his intentions we cannot let anyone who preaches an impossible, virtual economy insults the dignity of the National Assembly by calling the state "banana" state.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12884	Thank you. You're two minutes out. Do you want us to vote on the injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12885	I don't want you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12886	Thank you very much. The word is Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12887	Dear Chairman, I want a few things, first of all, for the sake of the public to point out, and it concerns very important things about Petrochemy and the credit to the Exim Bank for the construction of the Surcin road – Obrenovac. First of all, I think it is very important for the citizens to say how important "Petrochemicals" and the whole complex is and how important it is for the Republic of Serbia. If this thing wasn't working this way right now, if it wasn't trying to get things in order, we'd have a situation like 1992 or 1996 when Petrochemy didn't work. So it's very important that this way he tries to heal this petrochemical complex, give him a chance for all the people who work there. It is important to say strongly that the debt is much larger, that much less than 105m euros in debt has been negotiated, and in this way a prerequisite is created to address the problem of Petrochemy in a quality way, just as the quality problem with the "Gelezar" in Smederevo when Hestil took over and today we have the finished thing. Today we have 5,000 people working there. I think it's much more important that people work, than simple property cards, additions and data withdrawals. The other thing I wanted to say the same thing is that Petrochemy made a profit in 2015. Also, in 2016, business profits were achieved at the level of the first 11 months. One by one company will be solved. I think it's very important, and that shows the determination to solve this problem. As for one question, or one finding that was just a moment ago, what will be the stake of Serbian companies in the construction of part of the Surcin-Obrenovac highway? So, 49%, that's what Serbian companies will have in the construction of the Surcin-Obrenovac road. I had just stayed in debt to another comment regarding my colleague Filipovski - until it came with the salary law, which is related to the local and autonomous province? The bill is closed, the public hearing is over on December 7th, with trade unions agreed to hold another round of meetings in January, and then it will be directed towards the National Assembly. As for public service employees, the task force is formed, the bill is being prepared, so these frameworks proposed under the law will be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12888	Thank you. Aleksandra Tomic, the authorised promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12889	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, you know, colleagues who speak of any state as being a banana state in public, are not at all cadres to carry any public functions, because that is not how you talk to the public about any state, because it simply shows one political question. On the other hand, when we talk about the debts of Petrochemy at all, we solve the problems of the past not only of Petrochemy, but of all those companies, customers and suppliers that are related to Petrochemy, and the debts of 600 million dinars are debts incurred over the past 20 years, not in the past four years, not in the past two years. (Sasa Radulovic, from the post: On what basis is this the chairman? ) So, what the balance sheet shows, which is that this company is showing profits, is only showing that there are capable management and that there are people who can really run these companies and that they're making simply certain benefits for this country, and that it's certainly not going to be the ones that are related to the closure of the company in restructuring and throwing the company into bankruptcy, what was the concept of those who were ministers and sitting down and today giving proposals, and that's to throw everything into bankruptcy, that employees are sent home, that they simply pay all the wages, and that there is no way that they can function at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12890	MPs, you're not authorized to do this, you're authorized to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12891	I'm sorry, there's been a united discussion, and the Finance Committee is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12892	Yeah, but you got the word as authorized, just as a proposer of certain points of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12893	I represent the Finance Committee who gave his consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12894	Members of Parliament, with my good will that today, in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, I have no evil intention, but I am merely saying that you have received the word as an authorised promoter, but not for the laws of which you are not proposing, the minister replied, but for the points of the agenda that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12895	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12896	Thank you very much. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Replica. () Replica to whom exactly? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: She mentioned me at least five times. No, not a single time. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Five times. ) Did Sasa Radulovic, MP Sasa Radulovic, say? Be in the O.R., I beg you most kindly. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I was in the hall, do not deceive the citizens. I wanted to say something else, but since morning... (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Article 104, I'm just looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure. Please, MP, let me just finish... (Saša Radulović, from Place: By Business, Article 104) You'll get the word, just to... (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I am not interested in any explanations, I am looking for a word. I have nothing to explain, because you don't want an explanation. So, let me tell the other MPs what my intention is, to get a synopsis, a stenogram, if the MP Sasa Radulovic is mentioned, I will give him a replica in the course of the debate, and if not, then in accordance with Article 104, paragraph 3 will not be. (Saša Radulovic, from the site: Looking for a word, you deceive citizens. ) There is no patience for the MP to finish the sentence, that he will get the word if he is mentioned, but he knows in advance what I am going to say, but it is not a problem, I am used to it. Until then, I'm asking only that the services provide me with a discussion of Ambassador Aleksandra Tomic, and we will continue. If there's a name, we'll be back on the line for two minutes. The word is Dalibor Radicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12897	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in my presentation, I will refer to the loan agreement for the development and restructuring of state-owned enterprises. The agreement was signed between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As the National Assembly confirms agreements on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, we are also considering this agreement today. This is the second loan for the development and restructuring of state-owned enterprises worth 89m and 800,000 euros. This loan refers to enterprises where the privatisation process is not yet completed. The finance ministry, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this law allows these companies to survive. Given that these companies receive direct budget subsidies, they significantly contribute to increasing public spending and fiscal deficits, but this is not the only form of aid given to these companies. In order for them to function, they need help in terms of credit guarantees, but they are tolerated from paying taxes and contributions, by connecting work experience, and all of this has an impact on the increase in public expenditures. I must point out that this is the second loan in a row and aims to reduce the state's participation in the direct and indirect support of the real sector. But let's talk about what's not in this agreement and what we all know. There's an easier way, which is to declare bankruptcy in companies like this, that some bankruptcy manager, with a huge payoff and a sale of companies. This government of the Republic of Serbia is choosing a harder way, but I think it's more right. It's much harder to help the company get on its feet. This kind of aid costs, but this way it shows that the government and the competent ministries care about their assets. How many workers are employed by Resavica, RTV Bor and other companies? Without this kind of help for recovery, what about the people in these companies? We'd have more successful privatisations that end with a lock on the gate and social cases on the street. It is much more important to find strategic partners for the company in restructuring or to choose the right model of privatisation. So that it can be done, we can see from example in practice. Let's look at Jellyzara or Er Serbia, which presents us with bright examples. That is why I call here to support this agreement, as well as the other points of the agenda and the efforts that the Serbian government makes to bring restructuring firms on the right track, so that they can live off what they earn from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12898	Thank you. The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12899	It is not easy to say something in a short time about this kind of agenda and this kind of agenda, which has nothing to do with the connection, so I would like to start with something we discussed on Friday, which as a parliamentary group we can support and that is the only thing that probably works in this whole proposal, which is Mrs. Danica Marinkovic's choice. We know that there was a great controversy about her and indeed the only thing that works in these materials that we got, and we couldn't pick up on Friday and then stand in the defense and protection of Ms. Danica Marinkovic from unfounded attacks and unargued attacks, so we have to praise this proposal and I'm really glad that someone remembered, and I haven't heard anything about that woman in a long time. I know it's been a googot over the past decade. I just want her to be as brave at the Anti-Corruption Agency as she was when she was working on the insights against the Cypriot terrorists and resisting SNS pressures and trying to get in the way of their corrupt actions. Speaking of corruption and some other points of the agenda, the choice of the governor's advice, the Law on Immobilisers, we need to remind ourselves of who is being passed and what laws are being passed. When I saw and when we saw that bill, the right to tell you, we were delighted, because we were hoping to finally pass a law that would settle that matter. But when we saw the contents of the law, we were disappointed. Well, why is this law passed? That's what you do best in the reasons and reasons for passing this law, where you say the purpose of this law is to ease the banks. Well, well, how much more to ease the banks? Instead of passing a law that will prevent natural persons and citizens who have been exposed for the past 15 years to a large torture by banks, when apartments and family homes have been taken away for ridiculous debts that are several times lower than the value of that immovableity, when many people have committed suicides because of such things, for ridiculous debts that occur in various deposits are taken away from people's apartments and family homes where entire families live, you are passing a law that should facilitate banks. What else does it take in this country to make it easier for the banks? What have we been up to? We have judges who have VIP status as bank clients, even though the courts are blocked. On this basis, if I have a firm or I work at a company that's in a blockade, I can't be a VIP client. We have courts in the blockade for 600 million dinars. How can they have VIP client status? Is that why there are no good judgments? We have a senior advisor to the President of the Republic who brings legal opinion which is contrary to, say, the legal opinion that is in force in Europe. We have seen now that courts in Poland or Germany, even in Croatia, take a different view. Here, and the D.A. called here. The question arises how can a senior state official have such a single contract for which he receives tens of thousands of euros in compensation, to give legal opinion while performing a high state function? Once again, we realized that BIA is being abused again in favour of banks and that abuse of position is being done by the director of BIA, who represents many business banks in major disputes. Someone told me in a conversation in the hallway by the ruling majority MPs – these are small contracts. The abuse of only one case of a company, when the office submitted falsified documentation, weighs 70m euros. They're not small-value disputes at all, they're not small things. So, another law just for the benefit of the banks. This isn't just about 20,000 families in charge of the Swiss francs. All the people who took loans in euros, including them, have increased by 70-80% since 2008. Let's get something to protect that people. Let's pass some law that's going to work for them, not banks all the time. There, the first job for Danica Marinkovic, this recently mentioned corruption made by judges, BIA director, senior state official, at the time an adviser to the president of the Republic, to investigate it by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Let's move on. We also have one proposal here submitted by the head of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority. We can say that the judiciary is a victim of politics. In particular, we all agreed here, even the MPs of the DS repeatedly pointed out that the most drastic example of the country's poor relationship to the judiciary had failed the 2009 reform, when 1,000 people without any clear criteria were driven out of work. But this law is the same manner. What Alexander Martinovic endures is the same thing. So you're still adopting all those bad fluids. Thanks to the subjective feeling of the president of the ruling majority's parliamentary group, you want to extend the law for another year. Why didn't the Ministry of Justice do it, but Alexander Martinovic has to do it? Is that the most direct political interference in the judiciary? You still owe me that answer about those 650 membership cards, when people went out, you didn't deliver. We just had a lively debate about Petrochemy. I agree, and the minister was right. I don't think anybody slows it down here. I have not heard in the discussion that anyone mentioned that we do not need Petrochemy and that this company is a harmful company. But can we agree on one more thing, that Petrochemy is in debt and that there is a serious problem that needs to be solved? But how did this problem arise? You know, the bombing was 17 years ago. Yes, we had high prices of oil and oil derivatives, so all of the polymer producers have burdened the world, but we've had a drastic fall in these raw materials lately. I think there's a key management problem here. Have you ever brought justice to those responsible for mismanagement in Petrochemia? Here, for five years now, you've been running Petrochemia. It's a key problem. It is the same with “The Iron. ” I agree, and it's a good thing the Irons must do business, but what about the nearly 250m euros that SNS has made? If you say that Bojkovic and Kamaras are professional managers and that Kamaras is a foreigner who used to work at Us Steel without Bojkovic being a member of the SNS, the question is, what does that man need with BIA security? What kind of money did he and Kamaras fight about, so now he as a worker of the "Serbiagas" must have BIA security because Kamaras threatened to liquidate him, and you know that he is co-operating with Albanians from Kosovo? So you gave the man B.I.A.'s security. It's not a little 244 million. Who knows how many people were in the ground. That's the key question for us to answer. Don't make it look like someone's against "The Iron" against Petrochemy. The key question here is why are these companies being mismanaged and who is robbing these companies? As for Petrochemia, we first had five years of Azerbaijani. They were supposed to be strategic partners, so Iran, then ultimately UAE and Abu Dhabi, to buy Luka Pancheva and Petrochemy, and in the end, the Chinese and so far nothing. That's what you have to say. As for excises, even when it was a budget, we said we were expecting a new Excise Act, because the unreal things you predicted in the budget. How do you get another eight billion on oil derivatives? We have the most expensive fuel in the region. That's what we told Mr. Vujovic at the time. We said – you were lucky because in the previous period the fuel price was low. We did not reduce prices, but rather maintain the same price of excise growth in order to fill the budget, to the detriment of Serbian citizens and to the harm of the economy. All right, but what do we do now? Russia's OPEC agreement, the growth of interest and the growth of the dollar expected with Trampa, will bring about the problem. Are we still going to pay for more expensive fuel? Minister Vujovic himself said it could be a challenge. Those excises, it's nice to fill the budget like that, but I asked you at the time if the citizens of Serbia could survive your budgeting and that surplus. As far as these public sector salaries are concerned, I have to say that the country has a maternal relationship with the Serbian Army and that price we will pay dearly all, all citizens, not just the Army, because without the Army there is no stable state, there is no economy. I must urge that this injustice be corrected in the future, because we cannot have any army, or keep the persons who are now at the service in the Army with such ridiculous and shameful wages and injustices toward these people must be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12900	Thank you. Branimir Ancic. (Veloljub Arsic, from town: Replica! It's a client! What are you yelling at me for? How many times have you been in this situation so the MPs haven't yelled at you? Has the SNS been mentioned? Here you go. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Let's see the stenogram. We'll see a stenogram, don't worry. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: How did you give him the word? Don't run the session. Article 27 doesn't say Milojic is in charge of the session. When it's written down, I'll give it to you. Just don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, that is such a demagogy as is now being brought here. He's been running himself through the National Assembly all the time. The loss of Petrochemis, the loss of Petrochemis, the loss of Petrochemis. The losses of Petrochemis were also made in the 1990s and were created by 2012 and Petrochemia has so far reconciled these debts. That's why she had a negative business. She paid old debts with which neither this leadership nor this government has anything to do with it. It's not true that it's coming to the expense of taxpayers. This is about a loan, if the law is read carefully. That's funny to you, I don't. It means that the state assumes obligations with the intention of returning these commitments later to the Republic through the profit it is earning. It is also true, without a story of loss, that Petrochemy will end up in a plus with between 50 billion and 60 billion dinars this year. This is just about bankruptcy managers who would like to reach Petrochemy...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12902	MP, you've got a line on Srdjan Nog. You speak to me as chairman, not directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12903	I didn't mention anyone directly. I'm just talking about what the consequences can be if we accept one demagogue and one company that can live, work, pay off our employees, go bankrupt. He'll only get one paycheck and a done story from that bankruptcy, and someone'll lose their job, and someone with a lot of money will go home. That's what this is about. So, all those stories that come down to it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12904	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. I'd give you a replica, there's no need for a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12905	I just wanted to point out that I don't know what he was replicating me to as the MP who spoke before him, since I didn't mention the things he said in his replica. So that's very interesting, but good. If the SNS and its authorised representative on everything I've said has nothing to answer to personally to me, but corresponds to some pausal phrases that apply to other people, excellent. Replica, Eagle. [[Vladimir Orlic, from the place: Is it the Rules of Procedure or Replic?]] So, Mr. Arsic, to be precise, you and I are in agreement then. We agree that Petrochemy should operate, we agree that Petrochemy is an important company, but I also think that you mentioned it in your speech, too, it should be determined why Petrochemy did bad business in the previous period. For five years you've been in power, I'm inviting you to finally chop it up and establish it. Do you agree with my second part of the exposure? Since you agree to that first part, but don't give me any words I didn't say. I repeat, Petrochem needs Serbia, but it must be reconsidered why Petrochemy has debts. The bombing was 17 years ago. We need to see from 2000 to today what happened and how it was managed by this company. We need to see what the SNS has been doing with companies like that for five years. It also means "Iron" Smederevo, as I came to... I repeat, Mr. Boykovic and Mr. Kamaras have made a debt of over 240m euros, and why does Mr. Boykovic have BIA security, among other things, and various other companies? There, we choose Mrs Danica Marinkovic and I hope that the Anti-Corruption Council will deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12906	The word is made by MP Branimir Rancic. Is he here? (No) Sign up for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12907	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected ministers, respected guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Nis, is ahead of us a set of laws, and I will only talk about the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement, additional financing for the Corridor 10 highway project, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As we know, the goal of each project is to improve the efficiency and safety of traffic on three sections of Corridor 10 - Niša and Dimitrovgrad, and Leskovec – Grabovnica, and Donji Neradovac. In particular, it is 38 kilometers between Leskovec, Grabovnica and Grdelica and between Caricina Doline and Donji Neradovac on Corridor 10, on the axis of the highway E75 and nine kilometers of the highway on the section of Corridor north of Dimitrovgrad, on the axis of the E80 highway, in the form of new construction and as an improvement of the existing road. Just for a moment, Corridor 10 is one of the most important pan-European traffic and corridors that pass through Serbia and connect Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Greece, which will say it is the breadth of the EU transport system, i.e. the travel aorta for Serbia. The loan agreement, the Corridor 10 highway project, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, was signed in Belgrade on 13 July 2009, i.e. the basic agreement, and confirmed by the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement. Project Corridor 10 highway. So here there's a basic agreement and a project of Corridor 10 highway. The basic agreement approved a 275m and 200,000 euros loan to the Republic of Serbia. On the basis of expert analyses, the appropriations of the loan, under the basic agreement of 275 million and 200 000, are not sufficient to complete the basic project and, accordingly, according to the Government's conclusion of 25 February 2016, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was requested to grant additional funds to the Republic of Serbia of 35m euros in order to complete the work on Corridor 10. These funds will be used on purpose. I underline, these funds will be used on purpose by the positions contained in the project. The main reasons that led to the need for additional funding were the exogenous meteors, such as unfavourable weather conditions during the winter of 2012, floods, unforeseen geological conditions, as well as the proper excavation and preservation of archaeological sites in the village of Spain near the Red River. Second, overruns in the cost of the project as a result of the postponement of the expropriation process. Third, a contract to build a bypass around Dimitrovgrad broke off on two occasions. Fourth, concrete and August structures in tunnels replaced by asphalt to reduce noise and dust. Five, change of the highway traffic regimes during the work on the mentioned shares. The proposed additional financing and extension of the last date for the withdrawal of loans under the basic agreement and completion of the basic project is necessary in order to settle excess costs for construction works, as well as finalisation of project development objectives. I know critics are gonna say it wasn't a good plan, but let's take, for example, the planning of a surgical intervention. In preparation for surgery are additional clinical trials, X-ray, ultrasound, magnetic resonance, magnetic resonance with contrast and need of blood. When a surgeon opens up an operational field, he encounters a whole series of unpredictable problems he has to solve during surgery, so a three-hour operation now takes five hours, and the required blood bottles are not enough, but need to be done yet. Logically asked – should the situation be interrupted because of unforeseen situations? The analysis is clear and the answer is no. To conclude, these are the reasons that led to the confirmation of the Loan Agreement, additional financing for the Corridor 10 Highway Project, between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 14 November 2016. Realising this important project in the Republic of Serbia will lead to a general acceleration of transit traffic, improve the level of services and facilitate trade flows and transport of goods and passengers, which will contribute to both regional development and development of my town of Nis, from which I come, so that "dicta" – All water routes to Rome, as the prime minister said - all roads lead to Nis. In the end, I call on all the MPs from Nis to vote for this law, as I will vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12908	Thank you. Natasa Mihajlović Vacic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12909	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I have listened carefully to media public service statements from the beginning of the debate. With Serbia's public service, therefore to RTS, we can find a thousand and one flaw. I've known many people since I've worked in that house for years. I was a journalist and editor in various political garbs of government and administrations within the RTS itself. So I know how things work in practice when it comes to public service for Serbia, but public information in Serbia. For the sake of public service, so RTS, it's not perfect. It can do much better than that, but not just today, but decades ago. Note this, RTS is today the highest quality television station in the country. However much, each of us found justifiable or unfounded something to place on him or to resent him, objectively we need to look at the role, the quality of RTS and his contribution to this society and compare it to other commercial television stations. So RTS is the backbone of public information in Serbia. It needs to be nurtured and strengthened so that the whole of Serbia can carry forward, not towards social mud and hopelessness. Tapping in place, stagnation, is also not a good option. Serbia's work-television, as a public service, must and can do much better, and it is good that the government recognized the importance of the survival of the public service and extended the budget's temporary funding for another year. As regards the RTS financing system, and hence, the indirect and potential volume of political influence on the editorial policy of the house, given that budgetary financing is involved, it is easy to be subjective and ignorant, uninstructed and unprofessional to polarise and politicise the issue. It is too complex and extensive a topic for this and this kind of parliamentary exposure and parliamentary debate in the tide. Are there better funding solutions and quality work models and the RTS functioning system? Of course there are. But this requires a serious approach and even more serious engagement on this issue, and the Committee on Information and Culture and the entire National Assembly. If there is serious political will for this issue, I will gladly make my own contribution, and through the work of the Information Committee, as its member, because it is in the interests of all of us citizens, and the party of the authorities, and the opposition, and the RTS itself, that we have a better and stronger public service in Serbia. For now, I thank the President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12910	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12911	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People. I will talk about a proposal for a brand-new law that is very important for that reason, which concerns the setting up of the profession of an evaluator of the value of immovableity. There are no standards in Serbia relating to the assessment of the value of immovableity, nor are there rules relating to the profession of assessors. The adoption of this law will regulate many of the problems that can arise in connection with the exercise of this activity. For example, the appointment of an evaluator is not adequate now, there is no obligation of professional training, there is no regulatory body to sanction the potential non-professional behaviour of an evaluator, there is often no legal basis for carrying out an assessment of the value of immovableity or the methodology of the assessment itself is not precise. The RS government also in its strategy for resolving problematic loans, envisioned the adoption of legislation to regulate the profession of immobilisers, for reasons why banks and many economic operators have found themselves in a state of need for legal regulation of certain situations. This law will put the evaluator profession in the appropriate frameworks to guarantee expertise and credibility. The appointment procedure will be regulated, mandatory continuous training will be prescribed, standards will be introduced in the performance of this activity, there will be a regulatory body responsible for sanctioning non-professional behaviour in the assessment of the value of immovableity. For Serbia, for the sake of opening EU accession negotiations, Chapter 9, which includes banking, insurance, investment funds and the capital market, is also very important. All these areas were also in the national programme for the adoption of EU legal flows, which the government brought on November 17th this year. Chapter 9 also covers the EU Regulation, or the Mortgage Credit Directive, which sets out the obligation of each country to develop its standards and to ensure the expertise of the immovable evaluator. Thus, the adoption of this law will be a alignment with the requirements set out in that Directive, as well as the harmonisation of our legislation with EU rules, which is another step forward in EU accession. EU membership is one of the strategic definitions of this government and the adoption of such laws shows readiness for Serbia to be in the society of the world's most developed states. Another reason that speaks in favour of the adoption of this law is to maintain financial stability. The accuracy of the estimate of the value of immovableity is a significant element of the financial stability of the banking system. The assets often serve as a form of security for banks, so banks are at risk of changes in the value of the assets. High level of problematic credits, negatively reflected in bank balances. Also, the accumulation of problematic credits in bank balances has a negative impact on bank credit activity, as well as on business activity, due to the reduced availability of potential sources of funding for citizens and economic operators. In order to improve access to finance and to increase the development of economic activity, it is necessary to improve, precisely, the services of estimating the value of immovableity. For example, small and medium-sized enterprises, although they have assets that can serve as a means of providing a loan, could not be in debt, since intricacies make mistakes in the estimate of the value of immovable property. On the other hand, banks don't want to accept untrustworthy estimates of the value of the credit security funds. It happens that, and when they accept clients, banks approve loans at lower credit ratings or at high interest rates. So, by passing this law, many issues will be resolved. Orders will be introduced. The efficiency assessment profession will be put into certain frameworks, thus helping banks, as well as many economic operators, which will have positive effects on our economy and preserve financial stability. For the sake of all this, I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal, as well as other proposals on the agenda today, in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12912	The word has the People's MP, Zvonimir Djokic. Is Zvonimir Djokić there? No, I don't. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12913	Thank you. Dear National Assembly Presidents, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. The second day we have before us are laws that form the basis of finance, but of course these other laws are linked to the financial law. What I must say at the outset is that during the previous day of the National Assembly meeting of one part of the opposition, a lot of manipulation, a lot of ignorance, a lot of superficiality, and it has been shown that the laws that have been proposed have not even been read. First of all, I have to point out the remarks we've heard in the last few days, and it was about amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act and the abolition of VAT on equipment and baby food. I must, for the sake of Serbian citizens, say, return VAT on equipment and baby food, will be done in the same way as before, until the adoption of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Then this measure of financial support to the family with children will cross from the tax system into the sphere of social policy and the socio-protective role of the state, where it really belongs and will take place through one-time payment, as compensation for equipment and baby food. Also, to resort to manipulation, the incorrect representation of the law of one part of the opposition is also spoken by Article 14 of Article 2 of the said Law, which clearly and precisely defines what I have now stated. It tried to manipulate a part of the opposition, that the issue of money and the issue of material giving of the family in a direct and consequential relationship with the birthright, i.e. a reduction in the birth rate in our country. Of course, economic support measures are very important for families with children and families who plan to give birth, i.e. an increase in birth, but certainly not the only measure and is not directly related to birth. If that were the case, then the countries of Western Europe and the Scandinavian countries would have high natural growth, which is certainly not true, because they are economically rich countries. From economic wealth, they play a highly developed social and socio-protective role in their countries. If that were not the case, it also shows data from the last census, as well as data on the natural age rate in some parts of the Republic of Serbia. The measures taken to encourage birth are the same in Tutina, the same in Subotica, are the same in Priboj. But the degree of natural growth is very different. In only seven municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, a positive rate of natural growth is recorded. There is, first of all, the Tutin municipality with a natural age rate of 7.8%. That this government has been taking a responsible approach to the problem of birth, which has been burdensome and inherited since 2002, also shows that a ministry has been formed within the government to deal with the issue of demographicism and the issue of birth, but of course in one comprehensive and one way that should in any case contribute to increasing natural growth. For this government, the issue of economic recovery, but also the issue of economic birth, is one of the priority issues. I must also point out that a small number of MPs spoke about reducing the tax rate on wooden briquettes and pellets from 20% to 10%. Why would I bring that up? Because this tax measure, i.e. a reduction in VAT, can certainly be significant for rural areas, for employment in these rural areas, but also for those municipalities such as Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, which belong to these mountainous mountain areas and where there are, of course, heating trees and wooden briquettes and pellets, and that is one way to provide a safe energy source. I must also point out that this government has taken great care of the legal certainty of taxpayers, and above all through the introduction of the authority of the second-degree body in resolving the procedures relating to tax and administrative matters. So far, the taxpayer's appeal has been resolved by a second-degree tax authority. It is precisely in order to bring this law into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and in order to increase legal certainty, predictability and equal treatment in the same legal matters, the second-degree tax authority of the Tax Administration will be the Ministry of Finance, which will certainly ensure more effective treatment, and the control function of the first-degree tax authorities will also be provided. All these laws are aimed at improving the quality of life of our citizens, are in the interest of citizens and SNS in the voting day will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12914	Thank you. The word has been sent by Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12915	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of the People, I will only briefly replace my discussion at the discussion of my colleague, Milanka Vukojičić, when the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax, which relates to the abolition, practically, of the situation so far, that parents, with the help of fiscal accounts, will make up for what is practically theirs. I think this solution, in a dignified way, will get money from a new legal solution in the field of social protection when it comes to child's equipment. They will not be forced to collect fiscal accounts and thus provide funds for their children. From another party, if we ask for a full release from VAT of these foods, there can be abuse, because by categorizing certain foods they can also be found in the category of ordinary foods, as well as in the category of foods that are practically in baby foods where children's food is. So this is how we avoid these situations. One more thing. One social map will be formed, so there is too expensive equipment that certainly does not deserve to be in the area of compensation, but it is the basic equipment and that everyone is equally supplied in that direction. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, I am completely surprised when it comes to excise duty on cigarettes. Each dinar goes to one part to treat those who suffer not only from lung cancers that are directly related to the consumption of cigarettes, but also from many other chronic obstructive diseases, such as asthma and many other diseases, chronic bronchitis, which are also due to the consumption of cigarettes, and they advocate days to introduce excises on sweetened beverages, so I simply wonder why only on sweetened drinks, they can be sweetened by artificial sweeteners that do not lead to obesity, but lead to many other diseases and not only that, why not excises then and energy drinks that we know our young people consume in huge quantities, and it has been proven to be very harmful to health? At the end of what I want to mention, and it concerns the election of Danica Marinkovic, if nothing else, this lady deserved an apology, an apology from the people who hurt the most, hurt her brave work in the most difficult conditions between 1990 and 1999 when she was an investigative judge in Pristina. Her investigations led to judicial solutions and the judicial convictions of the Serbian people's greatest executioner of KIM. What happened in April 2001? All who have been convicted by law were released in 2001 from the DOS government. Danica Marinkovic earned an apology because in 1994 and 1995 she was in a standoff with police forces at all crime scenes and did correct insights, did correct insights, prepared investigative evidence that led to the conviction of those who killed police officers and soldiers who defended their country and their people. Not to mention "Račak". If we say that the Associated Press, the Mond and many other agencies reported, which were together with police forces on the ground that there were no genocides and there was no police crime, but was a police action by regular police forces against terrorists in Kosovo, what do you expect? You expect to get reports from NGOs of Sonja Biserko and many others, "The Sandman", "The Black Woman" that they tell us what Danica Marinkovic did. It's a shame, a shame to those who said it here, so I ask you to apologize to Danica, and to all those mothers, sisters, children of the dead police officers and soldiers of KIM who laid down their lives with honor, and you have defiled them with such a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12916	Thank you very much. Ambassador Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12917	Thank you, Your Honor. There are a lot of laws that have been found in this package and it's really complicated to discuss all of them. I will try to look back on some of them, from the point of view of Bosniaks and all the citizens of Sandzak. When it comes to the Public Service Act, a quarterly report on the feasibility of the rights of members of national minorities to inform is one untrue. It is not true that all national minorities exercise the right to inform in their native language. There is not a single second of information program in Bosnian on RTS. The question is therefore why Bosniaks would support work or in any other way pay RTS fees, when no single information in their native language can come to that public service. On the other hand, the party I come from, SDA Sandzak has since its founding, so, from 26 years ago, been a parliamentary party and we on this so-called so-called. We don't have a single minute, not a single second of time. To make the matter even more clear about RTS policy towards SDA Sandzak, I will give you research on media monitoring in the 2016 pre-election campaign, where RTS is, so-called. Public service, abused for the brutal and disproportionate destruction of the SDA Sandzak, so in 15 days, how much reporting was followed in the election campaign, 217 negative SDA Sandzak contributions were published on RTS. So, in 15 days, 217 negative contributions were released, in the middle of the campaign. I'll remind you this is about a minority parliamentary party. So these 217 negative contributions are more than about all the other parties involved in these elections together, including these so-called. big clients. At the same time, 226 positive contributions, six neutral and no negative contributions were published on RTS on the latest SDA Sandzak's SDA-led regime on Zukorlic's BDZ. It is obvious that the aim of this campaign, in which RTS played more than an active role, was to throw SDA Sandzak out of political life, to throw out of parliament and to impose on Bosniaks representatives at the will of the regime, at the will of Vukic and ruling parties. Therefore, the SDA of Sandzak absolutely does not support this law and we do not believe that it should be supported by this regimeal instrument that has been used for disproportionate reckoning with the legitimate representatives of Bosniaks. This bad attitude towards Sandzak, which RTS has so far gone that even Novi Pazar, one of the largest cities in the Republic of Serbia, is not even on the weather. But that's why, when some of the negative news is, they've been spinning all day on RTS, so people from the rest of the country should think that's not where normal people live, but that's where savages live. Now I ask you -- why would Bosniaks and Sandzak citizens, the citizens of Novi Pazar, in any way finance and support RTS work? SDA Sandzak's MPs will not support this law. As for the Loan Act for the construction of the Corridor 11 highway, we can conditionally support this bill if there are guarantees that there will be funds for the construction of project documentation and spatial plan for the construction of the highway via the Cave. We have proposed that in the 2017 budget the funds that will be used to produce project documentation and create a spatial plan for this section of the highway. I would like to stress that the highway is of paramount importance to all the citizens of Sandzak, our economy and our economic development. However, Alexander Vucic recently said in his media performances one disturbing statement to all Sandzak citizens, which is that he will re-negotiate some highway shares, and even said that the share through Sandzak, according to him, is not worth building for anyone. His claim is absolutely not true. This was also confirmed by the 2008 Republika Srpska Review Commission's decision, when the commission's decision envisioned the highway route across the caves to build through Dugi Poljana, where it later connects with Montenegro's part of the highway in the town of Bolara. This adopted variant of the Corridor 11 highway through Sandzak is 42 km shorter than any alternative, even from this one now proposed by Aleksandar Vukic and it is cheaper and more favourable to build because of more favourable course configuration, there are fewer bridges, fewer tunnels and, as I said, it is a shorter share. The price of a kilometer of highways ranges from 6m to 20m euros. So if there are guarantees that the highway will cross the Cave, we can support this law, and if these guarantees are not available, we will refrain from voting. We're not going to sit on our hands while the Sandzak citizens are being kidnapped and this capital project, like any other. When we talk about this Customs Act, what is very important is the creation of opportunities for phytosanitary controls at border crossings in Sandzak with Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, first because of our food producers and exporters, milk and dairy products, meat and meat products, mainly from border areas, from Pribo, Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, Tutina, and also from Sjenica. The lack of opportunity for these phyto-sanitary checks to be carried out at the border crossing costs a lot of our businessmen, both the times and the means to transport these goods to customs offices that are mostly within the country, so they are forced to return their goods back to the same route to the border crossing, which costs, from the aspect of transport, but also the goods are exposed to this negative impact of transport, which affects both its quality and its price. We have been before, and we are now asking for customs duties in Novi Pazar to increase jurisdiction because of the great needs of the economy and citizens, but also unnecessary costs that citizens are exposed to, because despite the customs office they have in their city, not all jobs can be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12918	Thank you. Since there is no time left on the lists of parliamentary groups, nor reported for a word, does anyone want to do Article 96? The time is only left for Marijana Risticevic anyway, so here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12919	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as the opposition's conditioning coach, first, to oversee the exercise and those who did not serve the army. Since they left the O.R. quickly, I'll continue. I see these laws as a continuation of state order. It is more important to regulate the state than to rule it. And those who don't rule themselves probably citizens know they can't rule them either. The state is a complex product, not to be made in a hurry. The state protects citizens and states in this regard changes laws. Here's a set of amendments to the law, and I'll be on my way. As far as the Public Service is concerned, there was said here on Friday a cruel untruth issued by a professor of political sciences, who said his political parties had not been on RTS, although at that time he was in direct transmission, and the political party had not yet registered. They only have an association of citizens. And with that in mind, if I have any grudges about RTS, my grudge is that most programs aren't there for under 18 years. As for complaints about the tax procedure, as someone who has reconciled his obligations, I must also take assurances, because this NIN from a serious magazine is becoming opposition, I am glad that the second-degree body and customs and tax procedures and at the Ministry of Finance are not completely independent, but is more independent than when tax inspectors assess each other's work, or assess the previous shop. As for the regulatory bodies, those who went out, they asked – why did Mrs. Marinkovic report having two sons? I think she did the right thing. It was a lady, and we could see days ahead of the National Assembly, hundreds of thousands of victims in Kosovo and Metohija who were lives and non-Serb populations and should have been, not just an investigative judge, should have been male as a woman in the course of aggression in 1999, and something before that, you could do your job in extremely complex circumstances. Why did she get two sons? Since he's going to the Anti-Corruption Agency, it would be good for all employees there to indicate how many children they have and where they work. So we would come to the harsh truth, that, say, children employed by the Anti-Corruption Agency are MPs and then parents are questioning their children's financial reports and their leaders, and there is certainly a conflict of interest that is not so small. If someone assesses the financial report of his child, his leader, his colleagues, well, then the job is not entirely independent. As far as Petrochemia is concerned, we have heard one economic gromad here, the type of bankruptcy manager, the type of transfer to himself and the godfather, the man who ran 15 bankruptcys, a few of whom ended up being liquidated, and everything else hasn't ended for years, getting a reward that belonged to bankruptcy managers, and not one of 15, I call it a tow company, which he ran with a fat bankruptcy mass, none of which has been able to start working, not to be in bankruptcy anymore, that workers come to work and bread. Here we heard his regret about why Petrochemia, which has not lost since he is no longer the Minister of Economy, is helping to regulate its debt and, in the first six months, only to export goods for 100m euros. There's 54 million in the account, and it's a wonder that this guy's bankruptcy manager, the big gromada, the biggest after my fellow farmer, didn't find it appropriate to ask Petrochemy to go bankrupt at a time when she was making losses but most likely to care about some fat bite now and to get another bankruptcy and to recover in such a way. When taxes are spoken of by a tax fugitive, which I am not, although their press likes to write, when someone who does not pay taxes, talks about taking out of the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when someone who has made 49 million dinars in a few years, writes in his card that he has neither savings nor property, such an individual is not some taxpayer. So it's probably some kind of tax evasion, hiding money, and certainly those of the Treasury know better than I do. As far as highways are concerned, I think these loans are productive, so before the highways are compared to that of the industry, and these highways will be exported by goods that, besides giving jobs and bread to employees who work in these companies, will certainly contribute to the country's exports being larger and thus service our debts and obligations that remain behind some previous government. The obligations of a guy who was in Petrochemia that came far before this government and my question to those who went out or fled, would it not be better said that they forgive us all their mistakes, would they not forgive us for all the things they left for us, would they resent us with express speed, at great speed, not solving the problems that they have been having for years, and God has left me and for decades? As far as VAT is concerned, about one-time family assistance with children, there will certainly be words, that's what colleagues have been saying. I'm going to talk about the briquette and the pellets for the simple reason why it's important for agriculture because we have a lot of abandoned agricultural land and the law, as I recall, while they were against, except that we've included more than a hundred thousand hectares in the programme, we've left the possibility that renewable energy producers can run on abandoned agricultural land that hasn't been purchased in three years have the right to rent that land as renewable energy producers for 30 years and by producing other fast-growing trees that they can produce pellets and briquettes in unlimited quantities, and the reduction is from 20 to 10%. As far as I know about the VAT Act. I think that this way the consumption and price of pellets and briquettes will be reduced and thus will withdraw production that can be significant for the restoration of agricultural land, especially the one that is abandoned, and we have about 400,000 hectares of such land, which was abandoned even before the arrival of this government. It's up to us to bring this land to us. The opposition colleagues should exchange views with us, exchange some sort of proposal for a solution, conflict our views and opinions, however, it is obvious that they do not care and that, based on their views and our views, we make the best possible solutions for this country. They expect someone else to solve our problems. No one but our problems will solve us, we must by our energy, our dedication, to resolve in this country that everyone has the right to an honest job, to make decent profit, to have the right to a happy home, to have the right to available education and health care and the right to a decent age. Whoever believes he can, and this government believes he can, is halfway to success, and I think progress is made when skilled and brave leaders recognize a chance, take advantage of an opportunity and do something good for this country. I believe this government will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-26-0.u12920	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principled, unique search on the proposals for acts set out in points 1 - 27 of the agenda. Dear Members, since we have completed the debate on points 16 to 27 of this session, I remind you of Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure under which the President of the National Assembly may set a day for voting on a proposal for a single law immediately after the finalisation of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I hereby determine Tuesday 27 December 2016 starting at 10.00 a.m. as a day for voting on all the points of the agenda of this session on which the debate was concluded on: the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement for the privileged buyer for the E-763 Motorway Construction Project (Surcin-Obrenovac Share), between the Government of the Republic of RS, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as the Borrower and the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as the Borrower, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (an additional financing for the Corridor 10 Project), between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (The Second Program for the Development and Restructuring of State Enterprises), between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and the Development, the Proposal for Article 1s of Article 1 and Article 1. The Expropriation Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 53/95, 23/01-SUS, 20/09/55/13-US), Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48. The law on enforcement and security (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 106/15), Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik, Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia, Proposal for a decision to elect two members of the Republic Committee for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Selection of a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council, from a list of candidates submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media from the list of candidates who have been nominated, the selection of members of the Committee of the Anti-Corruption Agency, from the list of candidates submitted by the Committee for Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the SNS. So the vote is tomorrow at 10:00. The session will be held tomorrow at 1400 hours, parliamentary questions, and amendments. [[The session was suspended at 12.05 p.m.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are 148 MPs present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. We continue our work and move on to the decision on points 16 to 27 of the session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Point 16 is the first to vote. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer, for the project of building the highway E-763 shares of Surcin – Obrenovac, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as the Boryprimac and the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as the Boredavec, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, v – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the bill in principle. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we've finished deciding on the amendments. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the privileged buyer, for the project of building the highway E-763 shares of Surcin – Obrenovac, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a loanee and the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender in general. I conclude the vote and declare: nine MPs did not vote for – 165, against – no one, with abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing of the Corridor 10 highway project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no 26 MPs voted for – 147 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the bill in principle. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – three, against – one, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we've finished deciding on the amendments. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing of the Corridor 10 highway project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – two, abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (Second programme loan for the development and restructuring of state-owned enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has adopted the bill in principle. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, Sasa Radulovic and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Vladimir Djuric has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 2a be added after article 2. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we've finished deciding on the amendments. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (Other programme loan for the development and restructuring of state-owned enterprises) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has passed the bill. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 1 of Article 5(1) and Article 53. Items 1 and 2. The Expropriation Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 53/95, 23/01-SUS, 20/09/55/13-US), in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, the four, the abstentions, there is no vote, there is no vote of 26 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. I put to the vote the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48. The law on enforcement and security (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – six abstentions – none, no vote 23. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48. The law on enforcement and security. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 148, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Trstenik. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 148, against – four abstentions – none, no vote 24. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all the MPs, has made a decision to elect a member of the Council of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the selection of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 148, against – four, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I am voting on the proposal to elect candidate Cedomir Radojcic as a member of the Competition Protection Council for a period of five years. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – three, abstention – one, not voting 25 I find that the National Assembly chose Cedomir Radojcic as a member of the Competition Protection Council by majority of the votes of all MPs. Congratulations to the chosen candidate, and I wish him a lot of success in his work. We move on to the selection of members of the Board of Regulators' Body for Electronic Media from the list of candidates submitted by the authorised proposings. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of one member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of an association whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. The candidates are Radoje Kujovic and Radoslav Nikolic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Radoje Kujovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote : for – 146, against – three, abstention – three, they did not vote 24. I am putting forward a motion to elect Radoslav Nikolic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote : for – three, against – one, abstention – two, did not vote 170. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Radoj Kujovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal for an association aimed at achieving freedom of expression and protection of children. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of universities accredited in the Republic of Serbia. The candidates are Prof. Dr. Vladimir Tomaševic and Goran Petrovic. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Vladimir Tomašević as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote : for – two, against – one, abstention – two, did not vote 171. I am voting on the proposal to elect Goran Petrovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I conclude the vote : for – 146, v – two, abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Goran Petrovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on a proposal from the University of Accredited in the Republic of Serbia. Since we have completed the vote and elected members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, from the list of candidates submitted by authorised proposings, allow them, on your behalf and on my own behalf, to congratulate them on the election and to wish them successful work. We now choose a member of the Committee of the Anti-Corruption Agency, from the list of candidates tabled by the Committee for Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, we move to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect candidate Danica Marinkovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency for a period of four years. I conclude the vote: for – 164, against – six abstentions – there is no, there is no vote seven. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Danica Marinkovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee. Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to elect candidate Miodrag Skulic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency for a period of four years. That's withdrawn. I don't know why the service doesn't follow. Ignore this, this is a service error, because yesterday, both verbally and in writing, a proposal from the SRS parliamentary group was withdrawn on time. Congratulations to the chosen candidate, on your behalf and on your behalf, and I wish him a lot of success in his work. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 151 versus – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by majority of the votes of all MPs. Thank you. We're done with this vote. We continue today's work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as it says it must at first, and this is my question whether any of the authorised representatives or representatives would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Come in, please. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Đurisic.
