ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50462	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Ambassador, you're not in the system, you can't report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you're not on the screen, you're back in. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, look at the screen that I'm logged in. I don't have to look in the O.R., I have to look in here. Here, you just showed up. What are you nervous about? I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50463	Your Honor, I believe that a member of 87 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which states that meetings of the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. Well, attitude 2 then says - the president of the National Assembly can decide to hold a session of the National Assembly for other days, i.e. that the National Assembly extends the work even after 18.00 hours, if there are justifiable reasons why the president of the National Assembly is telling the MPs. And, Article 3. - on the extension of the session after 1800 hours, the President of the Assembly informs the National Assembly no later than 1600 hours that day. We don't think there was any way we could have scheduled an extension of the session that we finished 24 hours ago in 1900 hours on Tuesday. To me there is no clear reason for this speed and for your need to abuse the Rules of Procedure in this way, you are violating business standards. The only thing I can understand is the cowardly fear of accidentally not entering the last Thursday of the month, when the government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the prime minister, should come and answer the questions of the MPs. In two years of this term, it's happened three times and every time you've avoided it, but you've never tried in such a brutal way to avoid it. That fear is great because you once told us here - and why don't we continue our work Wednesday until after midnight, because we'd be in on Thursday. You criticized us for not being persistent enough, so we don't sit here until after midnight on Wednesday. And now you're scared of that script and you've scheduled a session for this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50464	Thank you, Ambassador. You want us to vote on this breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah, sure. Does anyone want to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? Rules of Procedure? The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50465	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer my first question today to the minister of police. For some time now, police in Novi Pazar and other Sanjay cities in armored jeeps have been carrying out some action under excuse for alleged unpaid traffic penalties for the most ordinary traffic offences. These are actions carried out on several checkpoints mainly in the city centre during the day and evening when they are most crowded, and I have not noticed such or similar actions being conducted in other cities in Serbia, and I have not noticed here in Belgrade. Now you have a situation where the police are living on the free citizens of New Market. He uses classic repressive methods. He's bringing people in in broad daylight just because they didn't tie their seat belts or turn on the lights. And these same police haven't been able to solve a number of serious murders for years, mass drug trafficking, and a number of other crimes we've warned about in this assembly, which are happening in Novi Pazar. I'm going to remind you of just some of the difficult murders that happened in the center of New Market, which haven't been illuminated yet. The April 2007 murder of taxi driver Mirza Radonjica. The November 2005 murder of Mirsad Hadzijavdic. The murder of Sead Sutkovic downtown a few years ago. The murder of the owner of Harun Alic's exchange-holders, also in the city centre. The murder of the owner of Enes Idinovic's exchange shop, in front of the family house, also in the centre of Novi Pazar. Now imagine a situation where police with a balance sheet like that are parked in a armored jeep in the city center and stop and bring people in for not tying their seat belts, and it's respectable people. We had a case that a very respected doctor had been arrested a few years ago for a simple traffic violation. They bring in the reputations of businessmen who, by the way, are being told and constantly targeted by some market inspectors. So I ask the minister, but also the director of the police, who, and for what purpose, gave the order to the police in Novi Pazar to treat the citizens of Novi Pazar in this way, hostilely? On the other hand, in a few days, on February 27th, the 23rd anniversary of the kidnapping in Strpci is marked. 23 years ago, along with the assistance of members of the MUP and the Serbian Army, the kidnapping, torture and shooting of 18 Bosniaks and one of the 671 Croatians who trafficked on the Belgrade-Bar route was prepared. At that time, railway workers accompanied by uniform police officers at the starting station in Belgrade legitimateized passengers, wrote their names on the back of their cards. At the same time, troops who later reportedly communicated and cooperated with the people who stopped the train and brought these passengers out on the basis of names written on the back of the cards. Then 18 Bosniaks and one Croats who were tortured, robbed and killed were brought out of the train. This case isn't fully lit today. In the Strpci, the Bosniaks of Sandzak were kidnapped, tortured and killed, the citizens of this country only because they were Bosniaks, innocent civilians. So I ask the Minister of Justice to explain to me why these people have not yet obtained the status of civilian victims of war and why their family members have not obtained the status that belongs to them? With all this in mind, it is clear that the police and the judiciary are treated as at the Swedish table, taking those cases that are suitable for the ruling regime for the spread of fear, especially now in the pre-election campaign, while at the same time refusing to give Bosniaks fundamental human rights, such as the right to life, freedom, the right to security and equality before the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50466	Thank you, MP. The word is Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50467	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, my parliamentary question addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Mr. Vukic in 2012 and 2014 you and your coalition partners in campaigns for republican and local elections promised the citizens of Nis a better life, more jobs, a more orderly city, a fairer city government, a more orderly and fuller budget, once said a better life. And the citizens of Nis gave you trust in both 2012 and 2014. Everything that has been done in the economic rebirth of the town of Nis and the surrounding southern and southeast of Serbia is flat zero. None of your pre-election promises, at least as far as the Nis citizens are concerned, have you fulfilled them. In the town of Nis, for these four years we have 470 businesses less, 201 stores smaller, 2200 jobs less. What is interesting is the answer given by Mr Sertic, a minister in your government, who said that in the town of Nis the total was realised during your government9. 511.500,000 dinars and was realised for 6386 projects. That may be true, but provided one man hired for every project that was implemented in the town of Nis, we would have 6386 employees more employed, 6,300 workers less on the bureau. The town of Nis has 36% of the unemployed, the city itself has over 32,000 unemployed, and the Nisavski district without nearly 50,000. None of your promises have been made. The only thing that has been achieved is Johnson Electric, just over half a year ago, that's 350 or 400 jobs. That's good, but it's under a contract the government signed with the company in 2010 on a strategic partnership. What you have hired are your members of the parties in public enterprises and the City Assembly and the municipalities of the city of Nis. This is evident from the fact that the Niš’s 2012 salary budget was 1.8 billion, and today in 2016, 2.250 million. What is also important is that the income side of the 2016 budget envisions three billion in the name of the income tax, and in 2012, it was three billion and 600 million. Six million less than it was in 2012. It's an effect of your authority. I hope you don't go on the campaign this year with the same promises, because I deeply believe that the citizens of Nis will not trust you on these promises. The second question is, why didn't you and your government do anything to move the railroad from downtown? What you found in 2012, which is that the city of Nis has done a general urban plan, which provides for a new route to move the railroad. Then he made a plan for a detailed regulation of the new track track and a complete geodesy of the future new route. That's what I care about. And you didn't do anything. You didn't move your finger. What I got from Minister Mihajlovic's response is that the price of the new route is equal to the route between Nis and the Bulgarian border, that it moves between, imagine, 84m and 160m euros, is very precise. An ominous method, which seems to be practical in your government in determining the price of what needs to be invested and that will be decided when conditions are obtained. What the citizens of Nis are afraid of is that the extortion should not temporarily electrify a railway through the city centre, such as your former director of "Serb Railways", he announced before it was removed. I deeply believe that this will not happen, because the citizens of Nis have several times made congregation decisions, unanimous congregation decisions and opposition and positions – no, give it to the city centre. They said they wanted the railroad to be moved, and that's the attitude of all Nish citizens, regardless of their political status. I hope that the next election will come with a new power, which, Mr. Vukic, will be able to fulfill the promises made in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50468	Thank you. The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50469	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, distinguished presidents and the presidency, I would like to remind the public and citizens living in Sandzak of the ugly things that are happening in the nearby Tutin municipality where the party of Democratic Action and its recognizable president, Šemsudin Kučević, is in power. I also pointed out yesterday under the Law on Protection against Infectious Diseases, that we had had a serious crisis during this year and that six months had not been taken away by garbage, that there had been a serious delay in hygiene conditions, that even the cattle had started to die and that the really alarming situation had been in the city itself. Water supply has not been resolved in the municipality, and we have recently talked about sports infrastructure, where we have seen objects not moved since 2000 and practically since this furniture is in power, we have indeed had one destruction and collapse and one unembarkable state for citizens and municipalities, which is a border municipality and from which people really migrate. The citizens of this community have addressed me with a serious problem. In 2014 the President of the Municipality of Šemsudin Kučević adopted a resolution, allowing a private company from Tutin to exploit the Krečnjak, as well as a technical stone from the village of Detana and signed a solution even on the execution of mining works, although it did not have the approval of the mining institute itself, since this is a large village and that only the location is located in the village, 50 meters from the cemetery, 100 meters from the houses, the residents have been preventing and already preventing two years from reaching this act, which was found to be illegal. For two years, the locals of this and nearby villages have made it impossible to build a quarry, as it would endanger their existence, in order to destroy the basic work of which they live, which is agriculture and livestock. To increase the absurdity, since none of the municipality's employees wanted to sign this decision, it was signed by the president of the municipality himself to whom he had no jurisdiction and tortured, of course, the villagers filed criminal charges against President Kučević, but the answer has not yet been received. The judge in Tutin corrected his mistake in making a first-degree solution and in the second solution he made in the seventh month of 2015, following a decision by the Grand Court in Novi Pazar, found that the state in the catastrian plot had locals of a given village, so the Supreme Court in Novi Pazar is expected to confirm this verdict. Indeed, the locals struggled, even got several criminal charges, there were various and difficult situations, and even in the last year in Ramadan, there were riots along with the assistance of the police who had been deceived by these people and there were a number of difficult times. I just want to give you this example of how difficult the situation is in this mining community and how much abuse there is. But that's not the only problem. In fact, the locals spoke to me again and pointed to a problem that was made by the president of the municipality again in the village of Detana, because this village, which was only two kilometers away from Tutina, began to sell rural land on a surface of 19 hectares that was used as a pasture and thus made it impossible for locals to deal with livestock. What is particularly important is that the president of the Tutin municipality sells cadastral parcels to his party sympathisers three months before the elections, which is extremely symptomatic and points to numerous illegalities, and therefore I call on the competent authorities to respond and check this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50470	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50471	Thank you, President. My question today is referred to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it concerns public procurement and increasingly comments that the basic principles of public procurement relating to the provision of competition, transparency and equality of all bidders are not respected in practice. The Law on Public Procurement, which has been in place since 1 April 2013, has been announced as a law that no one has ever so wisely devised in the fight against corruption, and after only three years of its application, it comes to the conclusion that this law is one of the key corruption generators in Serbia. That something seriously wrong in the application of this law also confirms last year's resignation by the President of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in the Public Procurement Procedures of Mr Varinac Sasha, who at that time wisely explained his resignation by the fact that the commission's work exceeds his abilities, although all those who are seriously engaged in public procurement know that it is a professional and that the reason for his resignation is obviously not professional. What concerns the most is the increasing number of complaints that the commission, the most favourable bidders are under pressure from direct and indirect threats, up to something similar to the abuse of state authorities, primarily the prosecution, police, tax administrations, various inspections, and that these types of pressures are often made by those bidders whose bids have not been assessed, as the most favourable, and which are often called for by party belongings, relatives, godfathers and other links with ruling parties. I will not ask about all public procurement in Serbia, nor about public procurement for which the Government, of course, is not in charge, but I want to ask it about public procurement, which, for the purposes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, is united, so the Centralised Implementation of the Office for Joint Affairs of the Republic Authorities. Centralized public procurement has both good and bad sides. It is good that, given the amount that is purchased, it is mostly the result of discounts, but it is bad and it is actually shown in practice in Serbia today in fact, that it is being carried out strictly, not to say party control of the choice of the most favourable bidder. Then we come to the paradox that exactly the state authorities, institutions, and citizens themselves become victims of something that would be good will and fair application of the Public Procurement Act, so that no such application would occur, and there is great damage to both the public and the public. For example, the purchase of IT equipment, whose sales proved to be very lucrative for some companies that have increased their revenues up to 300 % in just two years, is divided into three segments, which is the purchase of equipment, maintenance of equipment and consumables and the total value of this public procurement exceeds one billion dinars. Repeat, one billion dinars. But as part of this, for example, on 16 April 2015, the portal issued an invitation to submit tenders per centralised public procurement, number 4/15, relating to the purchase of toners, and to date the procedure has not been completed, such as the centralised public procurement procedure No 10/15, for the purchase of computer equipment and examples there is more, but I will not continue to list for a short period of time. What my questions are is this – does the Agency for Joint Affairs have an internal plan to prevent corruption in public procurement? Did any of the public procurement employees in the administration begin from 2013 until today, file a report to the D.A. for corruption and did he inform the government? How many public procurements has the Management provided for a public procurement plan for 2015?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50472	Thank you. Finish your sentence, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50473	How much did it start and end by December 31, 2015?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50474	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50475	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, probably the previous speaker meant making public procurement in the AP Vojvodina when she objected to the application of the Public Procurement Act or the period from 2000 to 2012 in all Serbia, but good. In late January, I asked the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government about illegal employment in the township of Vracar, and about writing in the daily newspaper "Evening News", all in connection with the control carried out by the finance ministry's budgetary inspection. The minister replied a few days ago that my parliamentary question had been forwarded to the administrative inspectorate for further action, i.e. further jurisdiction, i.e. the action taken, and that, after obtaining a response from them, they will deliver a comprehensive, or unique response. I am taking this opportunity to extend my parliamentary question to them, i.e. to extend the subject of illegal employment in Vrakar City Municipality, i.e. the institution and companies whose founder is Vračar City Municipality, at least those institutions that are still alive, which have not yet been liquidated. I will remind you that Božidar Adzija National University has managed to liquidate an institution of particular importance for a culture that has existed for decades. During the term of office, they liquidated it as the best example of the DS pest government in the Belgrade municipality. In particular, my question concerns the Sports Centre “Vračar” and one, the least said scandalous situation that has occurred. So on February 12th of this year, the company's long-time employee, Mladen Novak, graduated economist, was fired with more than 16 years of work experience in the profession. Otherwise, the council board of the Vrachar municipality. And that while he was on sick leave, it made things worse. In the company, at the sports center they tried to portray it as an optimisation or rationalization of the number of jobs or something. However, that things don't exactly stand, it says that just over six months ago, in the permanent working relationship of the Vračar Sports Centre, the former CEO of JP "Vračar Business Area" who, due to unconscious work, was forced to resign in the post. Then, incarceration in the marketing sector is found, in a public enterprise, i.e. in the SC Vračar facility, and it is admitted to a permanent working relationship. Guess whose prominent official he is? It's a prominent DS official. Now I ask the question – how was it not rationalisation then, was it not in force by the Employment Prohibition Act? Where did the double arches come from? How is it possible to change today, or to fire one worker under a rationalization plan, and six months ago it was not a rationalization? I'll tell you what the point is. The point is that Mladen Novak, who was fired, is not a member of the DS, is that he is a committee member of the Vračar Assembly and the essence is that he was asking parliamentary questions. Imagine, the boardman dared to do his job, dared to ask the question – how can 15 million dinars of loss in the company in 2014 be made? He dared to ask and got fired. He dared to do his job, do his council duty and ask the question - where is the money, what have you done with the money, and how has there been a loss of 15 million dinars? He didn't get the answer, but he got fired. Now, that's DS, that's how DS behaves on the Wizard. The only sin of Mladen Novakov is that he is not a member of the DS and has asked the question - where is the money, but the Democrats on the Vrakara are not interested. They're only interested in how, again, who knows which way, they're going to abuse the resources of Vračar Town Hall, abuse the Assembly Hall, and by whom they're going to organize some stands. And tonight they've got some stands and they're using all the resources of a city municipality for the benefit of their party organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50476	Thank you. Time. We continue our work and move on to a search in particular of the Bill on Public Enterprises. Today's session was invited to attend authorized before the promoter, Dr Rasim Ljajic, Žerko Sertic, Dr Dusan Bojovic and Dr Zlatibor Lončar and their associates. You have received amendments to the draft law on public enterprises, submitted by the MPs. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members Goran Ciric, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic submitted the amendment to the bill. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50477	This amendment, which we have tabled and suggested that the Law on Public Enterprises be called the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of public interest. So, this is a fundamental proposal, not just a proposal to change the name, because I think it is very important that we define what key objectives are for the regulation of public enterprises, and we think that the key objectives are, above all, better quality services to Serbian citizens and cheaper services to Serbian citizens. It is our proposal to clearly define the objectives of and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is that public enterprises are organised so that infrastructure and operations are separated over that infrastructure, so our position is exactly, and I think this Bill of Public Interest should clearly define the position that at least 51% of the ownership of the Republic of Serbia over infrastructure, over public enterprises, should be preserved so that the state can encourage competition and, above all, in the incentive of the private-public partnership and privatisation of operations. Examples, Belgrade Airport, should not certainly be privatised, as privatisation of Belgrade Airport is announced, because this is the infrastructure under which operations are being developed and Serbia Airways and all other operators, because the goal, should be the goal of all of us, to encourage competition to open the possibility of a cheaper and more quality service. The same goes for Serbia's Power Network. What would it mean to privatise Serbia's Power Network above 51% compared to the ownership of the Republic of Serbia, if you later have a monopoly of one operator that can dictate prices? We have seen for ourselves that in such a way the state of Serbia does not have mechanisms in which it will develop a match and encourage a match to raise the quality of services to citizens and, of course, to lower prices. We've just got the opposite examples, an increase in electricity prices. I think the point was to bring, first of all, the law on public interest, and then to edit these technical details that you offer us with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50478	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50479	Thank you, Madam President. One sentence, all of it. I call on the amendment not to be accepted for reasons why the proposal does not follow the content of the law. Syntagma - works of public interest, I think, is not mentioned in content for a single time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50480	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50481	We have also submitted amendments to define the public interest in this law. Minister, good evening. With full readiness to work until dawn, it's not our first time, I don't remember that we once started at seven o'clock in the evening, but here, we didn't rebel, come and work, president, no problem at all, but with the hope that we'll achieve some dialogue and the power of the arguments to convince you to accept our amendments, since you didn't do so. So we've submitted an amendment to the title with one goal. And this group of amendments, which I personally signed, my colleague Ciric, is heading towards making this law actually better defined public interest. What's the public interest when we talk about public enterprises? Well, I think 20 years ago, we've forgotten a little bit of public interest when it comes to public enterprises and the activities of public enterprises. They dealt with all the jobs and political and social and humanitarian and sports activities, only the least, which is why these public enterprises were founded. That's why we've submitted the amendments, to better define the public interest. What is the public interest, say, the Post Office of Serbia? What is the public interest in carrying out the work of, say, “Serbishum”? What is the public interest in carrying out all public enterprises, and why are they founded? I'd say they give the best they can, the best service they can to the citizens at affordable prices. It is not the public interest of the Post of Serbia to return money to the budget. The public interest is to improve its business and provide as much service as possible, as fast as possible to the citizens of Serbia. It's a public interest. That's what we wanted to define. That, Minister, is what we propose to do in two ways. The first, only possible at this time, by amendment to change even the title of the law, by a later group of amendments to better define this law and by me, perhaps even a better quality solution, to adopt even a new law concerning the exercise of public interest, to define very clearly what public-interest activities are, which are conditions for obtaining a public-interest licence, which are obligations of companies to exercise public interest, which are conditions and circumstances under which the right to exercise public interest is lost. In this way, we would unequivocally define the public interest of the laws of the Republic of Serbia. This is how we have a few laws dealing with this subject. We've got a little out of control, and we're creating confusion when in law you're referring to certain provisions of public interest, I don't know exactly what law you're referring to. We have a few laws. We also suggest that other actions defined by this Law on Public Enterprises are better defined by the Business Society Act, because public enterprises are actually companies. In this way we remove any doubt, or all of them, when we talk about laws, because here we leave the possibility that when someone wants to call on a point, they do, because with a few laws we define public interest. So our proposal is either to do it the way we've proposed to the amendments, from the beginning, to change the name of the law or to speak now, to go into the making of a new law that will define the actions of public interest. We need to start with what is the public interest in the existence and establishment of public enterprises. Later we will see through many of our amendments and through many members that not everyone is in the public interest, and then I expect from you and an explanation that is of interest if it is not public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50482	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50483	First, your remark, or your proposal to define the public interest through this law, cannot be accepted because we define the position, the work, the functioning of public enterprises by this law. It makes sense and makes sense that what you're talking about, and we can think about, in the next period, that through a strategy or a legal framework, we define public interest and that we define and categories of enterprises, and that's what I talked about in the debate in principle. What I want to thank you for, I think you've said very correctly, and that's very important for us to define in some way now, that the state has not taken care of public enterprises in the last 20 years, and this is how I'm now feeling as a compliment to this government and to us that through two laws we've tried to sort out this area in a way that we can get the best possible result in the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50484	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50485	Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental problem with the proposal for this amendment is in Article 1 and there is interference and there is talk of public interest that public enterprises are of public interest. The difference between public interest and public enterprises is important. The public interest of a country can be different. Doesn't mean public enterprises have to be in the public interest. It's only in Serbia. Perhaps, if we return to the debate today how it works essentially, the essence of this debate is that the president of the SNS parliamentary group must also change consciousness. Public interest doesn't have to work for a public enterprise. Article 3 clearly states that public interest can also be carried out by an entrepreneur, i.e. a company of capital. Public interest is more broadly defined than public enterprises. I agree that Serbia is probably the country that has the largest number of public enterprises that I think are unnecessary. Public enterprises are a matter of the past, a thing that cannot be linked to a clear market economy. Public enterprises are an exception in liberal, modern, economic understanding. This law is trying to define, above all, a better way of functioning these public enterprises until the public interest, which must be limited, is not being carried out by public undertakings owned by a state or other non-state-owned enterprises, comes in the market. When we come into a situation where we have a public interest and trust in a job that is central, local or regional government, and trusts the most competitive enterprises, then the essence of the operation will be completely different. This Law on a public enterprise will concern only property of the enterprises that we have, as the Assembly of the Republic, local administrations, or provinces, and the public interest is certainly defined by other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50486	At the title of Glava I, the title of Section 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50487	Thank you very much. I'll use two plus five minutes. It's a very interesting subject. This is what my colleague Pavicevic and I have also shown by using the strongest weapon against bad laws that can be used, which is the amendment "expunge". To all 86 members of this law and, of course, to one good part of the other laws that have entered this basket, into this stew, to this, to call it, I better not choose words anymore, one set of laws that have absolutely nothing to do with each other. That public enterprises are in Liechtenstein, whether it's public health in Smedereva, whether it's methology, I don't know where, we don't want to go into it. In any case, the first reason is for all these laws because it's inadmissible to get through that speed, touring, tossing under the grain, or as you already want to define it, such a large group of laws without any possibility of any serious debate. Of course we're going to stay here all night, but that's what all the senses here consider to be the political-sports activity of the opposition's rebellion against rape proceedings in parliament by the current government, and that's not the first time. This is the first time we start at seven o'clock, but it's not the worst either. These are the basic reasons for all the laws. It is particularly important that the law which defines the area of public enterprises should not be passed in this way. First, two, two and a half years ago, there was already one law that was, of course, and then declared perfect, best in the world, first in history, kissed by his mother and I don't know all the compliments he didn't have. Now, in less than two and a half years, we're getting a new law that, of course, is even better, even more modern, even more reformist, for the first time in history, of course, like the one of two years ago. That's inadmissible. The area of public enterprises. We have already heard colleagues who have given different opinions about what public enterprises are, what they need, what public enterprises need to provide, and there are definitions that go into left-wing demagogy and have definitions that go closer to some market view of the economy in the modern world. Of course the New Party thinks we should have as few public enterprises as possible. Of course, very few of these areas are of public interest that can not create a normal corporation with private ownership or a "ppp" or a public private partnership, but that it has to be explicitly and exclusively state-owned. There's almost no such area. In the world today you have private plumbing, you have private streets across some American cities, not to mention rails, production, electricity distribution, weapons production, arms sales, electronic media, everything that is written otherwise in another article that we've given the same amendment to. It states here that this law regulates the legal position of public enterprises and other forms of organisation which carry out the work of general interest, and in particular the establishment, business, management, property and other issues of importance for its position. Believe me, we all know, and the Serbian public knows this, and the current minister knows it, and the minister before him, and probably the minister who will come after Sertic, that public enterprises in Serbia and not only in Serbia, but we are interested in Serbia, this is the Serbian parliament, a place for corruption, nepotism, for business amateurism, an integral part of every organised crime. Each organised criminal group has one public enterprise that is a user or they use in their operation. This story of how public enterprises will provide us with a better position for consumers has never been confirmed anywhere. What's reality today? That there isn't a public enterprise or that almost doesn't exist. If a consolidated balance is made, one good otting, no business is operating, and that it is publicly, with profit, or Telekom, without talking about "Air Serbia", the airport and other delusions. So, neither is what everyone thinks is perfect, nor is it doing business with profit. Why? Because it's in the nature of capital to be in private hands, not to be part of some general, shared, virtual property. That's why it should have been done, not only this government, not only this government in the last four years, but before that, a lot to change the situation and make public enterprises rare. Does this law change anything? No, I don't. No, nothing. That cosmetics that the director must have a college, of course he should have a college, so I guess that's something you've known before. If he had any idea about the company's performance, I think that's understood. It does not give any new quality to this law, but this law is a classic pre-election group of words, letters, sentences, where it is offered as -- here, we will now solve everything, as we will sign the best contracts in history, of course, but since June of the month when elections pass, and then it will be done with businesses that are in some healing processes, and then we will remove everything, but only to pass the elections. I don't think it's a good thing for a serious country. I think for the government, for the congregational majority, for ruling parties who think they certainly stay in power, especially for them, it's not good, that their future, of course, will not happen, but not to spoil your dreams, that for the future in those dreams it will be very difficult to work under bad laws, like this law. These laws need to be deleted and made better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50488	Thank you. Vladimir Pavicevic. Ambassador Pavicevic, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50489	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zivkovic has given an introduction to the context of the amendments that we have submitted to this bill and I would like to tell you, as it would say directly to the face, Minister Sertic, that by his actions, here in the National Assembly, you are symbolizing the continuity of a bad practice, the government, whose member you are. Well, we haven't forgotten the respected gentlemen or the contents of the Chamber of Commerce Act that we've also discussed here for hours. They explained that mandatory membership fees should not be introduced for members of the Chamber of Commerce and no one knows how many weeks have passed, and you sent Minister Sertic another very bad legislative project. Here are the honored gentlemen, on the case of our amendment to article 1 of this law, to show this claim and argument to offer for it. Article 1 provides for the following – the subject matter of the law is defined and it is written there – this law regulates the legal position of public enterprises, other forms of organisation that carry out activity of general interest, and in particular the establishment, business, management, property and other issues of importance for their position. Who reads the contents of Article 1 immediately wonders – what are these public enterprises doing otherwise, and how will their position in our system be regulated legally? Dear gentlemen, based on the system of ideas, beliefs, values and opinions that we, the MPs of the New Party in the National Assembly, I think it is clear that public enterprises and other organisations should only exist in rare situations, Minister Sertic, when there is no way to provide market mechanisms for the business of private companies that could make a profit. So, there is no interest, there is no interest in such action, since there are some areas, there are some topics that are important for our common life in our political community, and there is no market interest in dealing with it, there are some kinds of companies that are involved in this. Then what do I conclude? This must be some question to whom we pay proper attention, Minister Sertic, in a serious way we approach the debate on these issues. What we have here, respected gentlemen and Minister Sertic, is the right to tell you, I am more opposed to my fellow Members of the people for a humble relationship with the Serbian government, when they agree, to have Minister Sertić's night sessions on this one thing, which is a very important thing. I'm a First People's MP, Your Honor, but I've asked a little question, I've asked a little more experienced Members of the People. Minister Sertic, has it ever been that the session of the National Assembly starts at seven o'clock? Never, they told me this was the first time, it lasted until midnight, it lasted until dawn. I stayed here until dawn, but to begin at night, none of these more experienced politicians could remember that it was, and then Minister Sertic, the respected president, wrote to us in an explanation for not accepting this amendment next – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why there are no reasoned reasons for the proposed amendment. Dear gentlemen, President Gojkovic, on two pages explained to me Minister Sertic why it is necessary to delete this member and all the next members of this bill. On two pages. Here is the first page, here is the honored gentlemen of the second page, and Minister Sertic, Madam President, answers us – that we have not even offered an explanation for accepting our amendment and that since there is no explanation, then he cannot accept our amendment. Well, here's the explanation, Mr. Sertice. Based on these two pages, I will, at this night's session, honoring the president, justify each of our amendments until the last member of this bill. If it's due by dawn, by dawn. Tomorrow by noon, by noon, by Thursday at 4:00 p.m. when the government comes to answer our questions, by Thursday at 4:00 p.m. when the government should come to answer our questions and not come, gentlemen. This was an introduction. I expect Mr Sertic's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50490	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50491	Dear Members, it is very important when we as ministers explain our proposals and ideas for the law and each member gives an explanation usually in the principle debate and when we speak in particular today, that each member read well and that we should know what it means. The first member of the Law on Public Enterprises defines the position of public enterprises and says why there is, that they need to have their own governance bodies and be defined as a way of doing business, to define property and everything else. What the honourable MPs of the opposition propose to this bill is that our public enterprises do not exist at all or exist, without being arranged in any way, about as much as at a time when they were in power and when they managed businesses, so we got billions and billions of debts in our budget. That's why today we're returning all the funds we have to pay back to international lenders, and as far as your argument goes, you could write 20, 30 or 50 pages as much as the law does, what's important is what's in the explanation. You have not written anything in your explanation that we might accept such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50492	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50493	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Sertic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that the amendment be rejected because it is unacceptable. Why is it not acceptable? Because he's demanding that article 1 be deleted. This means that the regulation of the legal position of public enterprises, in particular the establishment and undermining the management of public enterprises, property and other very important issues of importance for the position of public enterprises, is deleted. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one question is asked – why do the amendment's proposings seek to delete this member of the law, in which, besides other, the management of public enterprises is defined? The answer is very simple – because they want to keep the situation in public enterprises from the time of the former government of the former regime when there was chaos, lawlessness and crime in public enterprises. Let me just say one example, the director of a public firm in Belgrade, that is, during the rule of that director, which was from a party of the former regime, which was embezzled by 310 million dinars, and has been convicted for 73 years in prison. It's the so-called garbage mob. In another company, 700 000 euros were spent solely on fuel and 110m dinars for the team. Gentlemen of the former regime will no longer be able to change members of this law, because this member and the whole law allow both monitoring and monitoring and control functions of public enterprises. Why does the motion for amendments, ladies and gentlemen, propose this amendment, and I claim that it is not meaningful, not even serious. In addition to what I have already explained, and because the amendment promoter and one and the other are never present in this high house during the voting day and do not vote in favour of their amendment. I don't think voting for their amendment is academically honest, or civicly responsible. So I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50494	Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50495	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests, such a good amendment one alone couldn't come up with. Two of them had to participate. An extremely technically sophisticated amendment, so let's say one sentence has 85 words. In this explanation of the amendment, which is said to be deleted, it is explained in one sentence, I counted, 85 words, and since the proposings are experts on marks, commas and dots, they could place a point between those 85 words, so that this sentence is not too complex. Among other things, they demand that the law be declared void by this amendment. For what reason? Let us also say one reason because, among other things, the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of South Korea on avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes was discussed. For reasons of debate on the agreement and the law, they are asking for their amendment to be adopted. This is their explanation, and I have no idea what Korea has to do with public enterprises, the title – public enterprises, etc. Further, oral reasoning. We've heard a lot of things. We've heard about corruption and nepotism, etc. I'm still saying that we should think this through because it's about experts in the area, because they did it. They were talking about organized crime. Those former regime parties when you enter, you don't know if you've entered a party or organized crime, and now they're saying something's organized crime, and if the law hasn't yet come into force, it hasn't been passed yet. Also, it's been said and it's been said of public interest, of general interest. They had a private interest instead of general interest. Instead of public affairs, they had private businesses. It was a friendly society now headed by that duchess, who didn't know what was enough. It was a machine for mass destruction that established one wild predatory capitalism, where now we have a few people who have everything, we have millions that don't have everything. This is where we heard the principal was supposed to have college. They only have the property. I guess he's supposed to be in college, not in college. So much for literacy. There was talk at the scene of a stew. Now I ask – what kind of goulash and what kind of wine goes with that goulash? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50496	The first amendment was jointly submitted by Goran Ciric, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic. You want a word? Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50497	The proposal for our amendment is Article 1. – public enterprises are legal entities, companies whose establishment, management, status changes, changes in legal form, termination and other issues of importance for their position, governed by the law governing the matter of companies, which carry out a public interest activity. The proposed amendment makes it clearer to define a legal person who carries out a public interest activity. From our colleagues on the discussion of the previous amendment, we have heard that a public company does not have to act in public interest. What else would it do? The main point of this amendment is that public enterprises work in the public interest to improve the quality of services for citizens and throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia provide approximately the same quality of this service. It is also true that actions of public interest are carried out not only by public undertakings but also by other companies and companies and joint companies. For this, we have an example -- Telecom Serbia is not a public enterprise, but a company of action, but it performs a public interest, because it is, we will agree, a public interest that all Serbian citizens in each part of Serbia have a high-quality Internet and telephone and every other network. It's a public interest. We wanted that, and I'm glad Mr. Minister, that you accepted our idea and the DS advocates exactly that – defining the law, above all, the Law of Public Interest, which will separate infrastructure, which is essential and should not be privatised to over 50% of other capital, foreign capital, but the state should retain 51% and should clearly say that in this law and on the other hand, encourage the game to cheapen the service and make it more quality by introducing new operators over that infrastructure. The state without that infrastructure in every way, from airports, telecommunications channels, EMS, will not have mechanisms to manage the market and encourage that market to get a cheaper and more quality service for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50498	Thank you. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50499	Thank you, Madam President. Short again. I call on the amendment not to be accepted. I refer to the proposals we have received from the Government, and I briefly add that the content proposed by it is far more similar to Article 3 and I think the relationship is very obvious. Here we have a title that would remain the subject of this law, and we have no text that would go in spirit – this law regulates that and that. I believe that thing is more than clear. If the intensity of this amendment was that of the public interest that we talked about a little earlier in the story, it's just a good start. I've looked at all the amendment proposals. What is proposed cannot replace the use of general interest in the concrete text of the law. So everyone in the package is looking at these proposals as bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50500	Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50501	Minister, when you say - the opposition has submitted some amendments and we want to abolish something, first say which party in the opposition or say the name and name of the MPs who submitted it so that we can explain to you in a dialogue what we wanted to say to our amendments, if you don't already understand. I have submitted seven amendments very meaningful with a clear proposal. It offends me when you say that I want to end something. You said - the opposition, I'm from the opposition, and I understood the remark as personal even though I know it wasn't sent to me. Just for the sake of the dialogue, it's a long night, I accept your apology, for the dialogue we're going to have. It is a good opportunity to explain to MPs and the public the public importance of public enterprises or the importance of public enterprises, of which the importance of public enterprises should be carried out. Of public importance, of general interest or of private interest or of someone else? In the most liberal economies, these jobs are entrusted with whether through "ppp" or some other means, contracts, but still these jobs are of general or public importance. I don't know what other meaning, just before we heard that public enterprises shouldn't or can do some jobs that aren't of public importance. What jobs? Of what significance? I claim that public enterprises are established solely for public interest. What, for example, can be of "Serbiasum", "Srbias", "Post", "Electroprivreda Srbija"? What other importance can these companies have besides public significance? It's a good opportunity to explain it. So, once again, with this amendment, he's a trail of this group of amendments that I signed along with my colleague Ciric, starting with a few things, let's separate public enterprises, let's better define the public interest. We can do this in two ways – or redefine this law, add a concrete definition of public importance, which are works of public interest, or discuss a new law that will fully define public interest, since they are amendments to this law, but we can talk about it. I've never heard arguments against our amendments before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50502	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50503	I owe you an apology, MP, for the general name of the opposition in my address earlier. I thank all MPs who have made concrete proposals to amend certain members of this law, whether I agree with them or not. In particular, as far as your proposal is concerned, this law and these changes that we have just adopted allow public private partnerships and allow private capital to enter, which is very important. And in the follow-up to this session tonight, we have some amendments and the Law on Public Private Partnership, so that we can simplify it in some ways, and on the other hand, give greater commitments to those who give this public right to know how they respond to the citizens of Serbia. What is important news in this law is that so far we have had practice and the possibility that a certain part of the business is public to give to a private company or to a private person without any conditions. So it wasn't a defined way of giving a job. We are now introducing through this law the Law on Public Partnership as a mandatory law on the basis of which certain rights are granted, and the Law on Public Private Partnership defines the conditions under which this is done. Even in that part of the law, I don't know how much you remember from our debate yesterday, we said that, say, all services have to go according to the Public Procurement Act. So, we have greatly improved the conditions on which jobs can be assigned. So we've opened up a completely transparent behavior of everyone and our interest is that public enterprises function in the best possible public way, so that we can all be the controllers of what's going on. So, not only among the republican companies, but also through these 690 companies at the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50504	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50505	Madam President and Mr. Minister, and I am offended by the fact that you've probably called some of the MPs opposition here, probably by a failure. I am even more surprised that some MPs are representing the opposition, if it is known that their party chief is the head of the regime in a large part of Serbia called the AP Vojvodina. How can someone who, in a very unprofessional, bad, incompetent way, lead the AP Vojvodina, be called the opposition? How can someone who creates life in Vojvodina be represented by the opposition? How did someone who, for over a decade, led by the AP Vojvodina contribute that there were once 400 cooperatives, four times fewer today, that agricultural combinations used to, before the current regime, employ 60,000 workers, and now employ only 1500, how can someone be called the opposition if the head of the regime that brought agriculture to Vojvodina was reduced to basic activity? How can someone be called the opposition if the head of the regime that has contributed to the fact that at the moment 10,000 Vojvodina are in line for public cuisine? How can one be called the opposition if the head of the regime that has contributed to 15 percent of young people leave school before finishing high school and natural growth in Vojvodina is negative - 5.4%? Therefore, we have no opposition here, we still have the power, which is being raped by democracy with just over 5% of the support of the people of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50506	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50507	Thank you, Madam President of the Assembly. First of all, my colleague from the Serbian Progressive Party would have to know one thing, the opposition is made up of those who do not participate at national level in the government, because at national policy level, therefore, national policy is being conducted at the state level, and national policy is not being conducted at local, or in the Regional Assembly. It's local government, the province government. So, the opposition is what we are to you here in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. But as for the main things you said, how dare you, counterpart Babić, that you put such criticisms at the expense of the province government and the president of the province's government Bojan Pajtic, when it is known that the Provincial Government has received from very competent international institutions serious recognitions, serious assessments that talk about how well it is managed and invested, how foreign investments in the AP Vojvodina are attracted? You know about that, we've already said this many times, "financial times" etc. On the other hand, when we look at the results of your government and we see what the Global Competitiveness Report said for 2015, as it measured 140 countries in the world, we are 139 out of 140, or we are others in the world in difficulty to attract talented people. As we rely on professional management, your government is at 131 out of 140, Serbia respects property rights, so, during your government, is 128th of 140 countries. The province of Vojvodina launched a very large transparency action a few days ago. We would very much like the government of the Republic of Serbia to go that way and show how responsible money from the Republic of Serbia is spent. Our belief is that this does not seem right, and this report, which I just quoted earlier, is also talking about, as according to the report, the Republic of Serbia is 129th in place of 140 countries, following the unconscious spending of budget money by the government. Therefore, when you criticise the AP Vojvodina and the government of the AP Vojvodina, it would be better to deal with what is happening at the republican level and at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50508	Thank you. Ambassador Babic, the replica, or is it an amendment? (Zoran Babic, from Place: Amendment. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50509	In Vojvodina, not the "Fincial Times" journalists live, but the citizens of Serbia. And as Serbian citizens live in Vojvodina, the best shows is the fact that in the past parliamentary elections you won 5.86% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that it is less than even at the republican level, that even in 19 municipalities and cities you did not cross the censorship. You know, it's not determined by some journalists, which we respect infinitely, but they don't live in Vojvodina, they don't live under Bojan Pajtic's authority. I am an eight-year messenger of the people, and I believed that I would never live to be told in the National Assembly, how dare I? Well, I guess this is where we're gonna talk, where we're gonna exchange opinions, not threats. I'm not timid, and I respect an endless colleague who said that, probably with a slip. I don't think it's in her nature to threaten anyone - how dare I. Well, I'll dare. You can sue me, you can do anything, whatever you want, you can threaten me, but I'm still going to express who you are. Probably the reward, but not from the press, will come from the competent state authorities. The award will also come for the company Dendi from Novi Sad, which has received a 415,000-euro grant, which has never been returned, nor has it hired 20 workers, nor has it opened an efficient drive for new technologies. The company is bankrupt and there is no employee, but it was not enough data for the Bojan Pajtic regime to give money to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the amount of nearly 416,000 euros in honor of the company. It is likely that the competent state authorities will also award the "Merkator" Vrsac affair. Vrsac's distribution centre received a 141,000-euro subsidy, which he did not return, did not employ 20 workers and did not open the plant with new technology. The company is bankrupt and has no employees again. It is likely that the Bojan Pajtic regime will also receive an award for the affair, i.e. for the company Eco-Tap, from Novi Sad, which has received a grant that has never returned, and has hired 20 workers, and there is no new technology plant. The company was subject to bankruptcy proceedings and was deleted from the business register. The company was founded in 2006, the same year it was granted a subsidy, despite the lack of references that would recommend it for a serious partner. We can also talk about the "Keramika Unika" company from Kikinda, the province has given twice 325,000 euros, i.e. a total of 650,000 euros. The company first received money from the New Technology Drive Subsidy Fund, and then from the Development Fund which was in 2002-2012, then shut down to continue its operations with the Development Fund, to cover up embezzlements in the previously shut-down, in fact, of a delayed fund. In addition to receiving money twice in the company "Keramika Unika" two opening ceremony were held. In 2008, Vrpcu was the then vice-president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, Ivana Dulic Markovic, and the next year's non-existent drive was opened by the Prime Minister of Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic. A year later in 2010, with all these non-existent plants paid by the citizens of Vojvodina for a total amount of 650,000 euros, the company went bankrupt due to millions of debts. Is this what rewards are for? No, I don't. This gives only rewards to competent judicial authorities. Otherwise, as the Republic government is doing, it best shows the example of Serbia's progress on the "Ding Business" list, in a year's 32 seats. Now, that's what's undeniable and that's what's one of the good characteristics of the entire government and the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50510	Replica, Natasa Vukkovic. You want a replica or an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50511	It's a replica. So, I am known as all Serbian citizens, that the SNS is completely irresponsiblely engaged in the production of various affairs that have no place in courts, because there are no legal reasons for them. We will not deal with this here, but we want to deal with how Serbian citizens live. And you are calling us here that the government of the AP Vojvodina is responsible that the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the citizens of Vojvodina, live badly and live ever harder. You are in power, dear fellow, in one way or another, for four years, and what we listen to every day are promises of what will happen to the citizens, first it was in 2014 so in 2015 we now promise an improvement in 2017, 2018. So what we're hearing from day to day is the delay of those promises you made three or four years ago. During that time, citizens are living worse and their pockets are getting more and more empty. No statistics and "Duing Business" lists help. That's what every citizen and citizen of this town knows, whether they live in Vojvodina or live in Belgrade, or in close Serbia. So it neither helps nor defuses the province of Vojvodina, given what you do at the level of economy, at the level of the country's economy. As for the legitimacy, we won elections in the province of Vojvodina, when the province elections were there and we will do it again in the upcoming elections. We will also win citizens' votes and also have an impact on politics in the province of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50512	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50513	I think the only producers of the affair were those who were having an affair with Bodra, and participated in the Bodrum affair, when the head of the DS parliamentary group was Bojan Pajtic, when it was voted from Bodrum, and it was voted from Athens, from Thessaloniki in fact. Well, the producers of the affair were the ones who were talking about some listening, running away from the polygraph, and then it turns out they lied. Well, it's the producers of the affair who, for the New Year's Eve, probably by some auto-projection, or recalling all the nice things they did on Briony this summer, thought and said that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in Dubai on the New Year's Eve, and turned out to be getting along again. And, not to mention all those affairs, from the "death of Pajtic" affair that the SNS condemned, of course, but not only condemned but also found responsible, and this is the responsible member of the DS. But I will invite my dear colleague to visit both Novi Sad and Dendi, and Vrsac "Merkator", and Kikindi "Keramika Unika", and Novi Sad "Ekotep", and ZOBEX" in Banatski Karlovci, and "Figrad", and "Globus car", and "Radan engineering", and "Nedim", and "Garant", and "Frigo", and "Jet company", and everything I will talk about today and in the next days where the regime of Bojan Pajtic spent, kidnapped, embezzled the money of all the citizens of Vojvodina. If we find a single employee there, find a single drive, find what the money was given for, I'm willing never to run again, but I'd like to see if you're ready to finally admit that your regime, the regime in Vojvodina, is incompetent, corrupt and criminal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50514	Thank you. The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50515	I am very pleased to respond to your remarks about Bodrum and go back in history in 2000, 2001, 2002 and so on. But, dear colleague, there are so many questions that we could ask in relation to political history, therefore, to political experience and to the contribution of your fellow political colleagues. Let's just ask ourselves, who was the reviewer of those famous books on Carla Delponte? Who was a member of the legal team for the defence of Vojislav Seselj during the previous years? What you wrote in those magazines and the newspaper "Great Serbia" among which many of your colleagues were. Come on, let's go back a little bit, ask a question about the principle of politics we're having, and you're going back to 2000 completely unfounded. And only if we wanted to go back to the '90s would it not be the end, but that doesn't make any sense because these citizens are living up there, living harder and harder, and we're throwing ourselves around with all kinds of jumps who's more guilty. You've been in power for four years, report to Serbian citizens why they live worse and worse. That's the key question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50516	Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50517	I'll remind my distinguished colleague of her words yesterday when we talked about the debate in principle. She said don't talk about the future anymore, Mr. Minister, you're talking about the past. Here, I've listened to her, I'm talking about the past, and now she's not answering that speech about the past and what used to happen. You know, if we were to speak now about what used to happen, so I'll remind you, and I wouldn't, it's not appropriate to speak ill of a political option that isn't here so it can't answer you, but that political option gave the quorum, or individuals of the SRS in the AP Vojvodina, gave a quorum to survive the government of Bojan Pajtic. They were good for you back then. It was fine back then, and now it's no good for you. If we look at that past, we could get to the Palace, roasting the ox at the Palace. So, who made the ox then? Who cut the roast then? But I don't think it's appropriate for those who aren't here, unfortunately, who can't answer, but we're here to talk about the future. We're here to create a future. You're defending us from something like that. But whoever did the wrong thing will answer. Bojan Pajtic, the DS regime, has done bad for the last 15 years to the citizens of Vojvodina. That's what the citizens of the Duke feel best. That's what they said in 19 municipalities where you didn't cross the census. That's what they said in the rest of Vojvodina where you won fewer votes than the Republican average. That's what those people who live under such a regime every day in which only companies close to Bojan Pajtic can survive. There, people and children with special needs took a million and 200,000 euros and left them without Hetherland. This is what both Serbian citizens and citizens living in Vojvodina define.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50518	Thank you. The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50519	Thank you, Chairman. To make the citizens understand what we're talking about and why my colleague Babic reminds me of what I said yesterday. I have discussed the proposal for a law on public enterprises told the government of Serbia, or the representative of the Serbian government in this debate, that this government does not know what it would do if there was no future time because now the proposal for a law on public enterprises promises hills and valleys, professionalisation of public enterprises, departisation, depolitisation, etc. But that, after two, three, four years in power to deal with past times, that's what we did, and that's what we did, and especially in this area of the Law on Public Enterprises, because a law was passed three or four years ago, and the government had an obligation under that law to depolitise, departisate, elect directors, therefore, in competitions until, I think, June 2013. You didn't do it under the law that you passed. You've been in power for four years. In that context, I said that this government, that there is no future time and that there is no opportunity to promise us what it wants, how it sees Serbia in the future, because it has no results and can't talk about the past, would have nothing to tell us. So, counterpart Babić, we here need to talk about amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises because they are good quality as they are submitted by the entire opposition and this debate makes it impossible for the citizens of Serbia to hear exactly how concrete measures we propose to improve this Law on Public Enterprises, which the minister asked for in the debate yesterday in principle and we have promised to make concrete proposals in the debate on details. I believe it's in the mutual interest to deal with this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50520	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50521	Who is the past, who is the present and who is the future of this country is determined by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, neither am I, nor is it the right of a respected colleague, Vukkovic. I'm afraid because of a policy that can only stand in one sentence, and that policy is -- we hate Alexander Vukic, that because of such a policy, you slowly take a place in a plus-squamperf, in a long time ago, and the citizens of Serbia will be able to say in two months' time who the future is. I am convinced that because of everything we've been doing to reform our society, to stop the sunflowers, to stop that situation that we've been in, and that's the state of bankruptcy, the state of bankruptcy, because of the opening of the chapters, because of those shifts we've made in all the fields, that Alexander Vukic and SNS' policies will continue to be the future, but that future will define the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and we will respect that opinion. In contrast, from Bojan Pajtic, who is cramping to the last moment, although he has not crossed the censorship, although he has 5%, slightly more than 5% of the support, raping democracy, he exercises power in an extremely incompetent, criminal way. That's what I can't understand, that I can't understand citizens living in Vojvodina. Did we make a move? Yes, we did, we made a move, unlike your time when the two-home management of public enterprises was when the boards of directors and supervisors who were only serving to entangle your contemplants, when you didn't care about the number, were just important to be odd, how many of them you were going to house in the boards of directors and supervisors. When you cared about the amount of compensation, this law clearly defines it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50522	Time. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50523	We, the responsible people, are colleagues with Babić and we are involved in politics because we have a programme and because we represent citizens of Serbia who support the programme. We don't deal with emotions in politics and we don't hate Alexander Vukic. It is not an emotion that we have been having towards Slobodan Milosevic, who has done a lot of damage to this country, and we have not dealt with these emotions nor with any of your former leaders, but this story of emotions has brought into the political life of Aleksandar Vukic, by wanting everyone to love him. It's an ambition that is not appropriate to one prime minister and we don't understand why we should talk politics that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50524	I ask the MPs to come back to the topic a little bit, if possible, and I will not prevent this dialogue. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50525	I admit, Madam President, we have brought emotion and that emotion separates us from the former regime, and that emotion is -- we love our country, we love our Serbia, we love the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, more than our own pocket, more than personal wealth, more than what was your priority. That emotion, don't ever, you have no right to take it away from us. I don't want anyone to take away my right to love my country, my fellow citizens most in the world, and that I want to work for their benefit, not for the sake of personal wealth, as it is, even if it is for the harm of children distracted in development, and today Bojan Pajtic is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50526	By amendment, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50527	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, promoters insist on the laws and definitions of public interest, contrary to what the bill is – general interest. When we talk about the general interest, then we talk about the general interest of all Serbian citizens, and when you find public interest in the definition, it's an interest in the common good. Well, that's the common good, through the report by the auditor, the state auditor for last year, in the AP Vojvodina, on Article 4, said that key audit irregularities, precisely those of 1,990 billion dinars, committed, were carried out and not in accordance with the applicable legal and other regulations of the Republic of Serbia. It says on page nine -- the section relating to 159 million dinars didn't have valid documentation when we talk about public procurement. Therefore, some take public interest as a common good, those members themselves who exercise power, and we consider in general the state and public interest of all citizens of Serbia, and therefore this proposal should not be accepted when it comes to amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50528	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50529	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, in order to prove the difference between general and public interest, the amendment's promoters wanted the general interest to replace the public. That's what they wrote, and they thought it would replace it with a private interest. The way they do it, I'll show it now. So in 1993, the public interest, the general interest, especially my interest was that, some excuse those who were radicals, that their companies and SRS – the SPS led all the authorities, but the party of the former regime thought differently. It was a public interest and they mention it in the '90s. That public interest was their interest. This is the 1993 alliance, and as you can see in the photograph, there is the president of their party firmly attached to Vojislav Seselj. They're famous for my citizens in 1990 with Vojislav Seselj. These duels are some other species. This was some public interest, because it is the private interest of the party of the former regime, in order to remain on the market then, my party remained small and theirs was large, because the public interest was turned into a private interest and therefore they think that in the amendment it is re-instituted. Here, so there's no confusion, these are the negotiations at the SRS headquarters. This photo and you won't find me, because my general public interest was to replace that party, not to be part of the government and not to support Milosevic. However, their public interest was to go to headquarters and negotiate to share power. Look, in the photograph is SRS President Vojislav Seselj, president of the then DS Zoran Djindjic and Secretary-General Aco Stefanovic at the SRS headquarters. Whether it was a public or private interest, here is another photo that testifies about it and to say that it was realised, in 1992, the party of the former regime was in the federal government of Seselj – Milosevic had two ministers, Mr Perisic and Mr Grubač. So this public interest has been quickly translated into their own private interest, and today they worship the ugliest, and even to me, in 1990. Excuse me, gentlemen, from the party of the former regime, you and how you made use of yourself in the 1990s in association with those whom you worship today. I'm the last person who needs to be transferred to. Let's see what public interest is. Does anyone know what rufia is? Reward question – what is rufia? Does anyone in this room know? Come on, I'm a farmer, you claim I don't know anything. Rufia is what will soon be in the Maldives, because that public interest is that the former regime party committee is established there, and the rural currency is the national currency of the Maldives Republic when they establish the committee of their party, the party of the former regime, most likely to be no more, because it will be the most likely action to "clean up the Maldives", as it has been "clean up Serbia", and lately it says "clean up Vojvodina". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50531	Dear President, I believe that by addressing the last fellow MP, an injured member of 107 on the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and that you were obliged to react and terminate. I initially protested this way of calling a session at this time of day, or night, I ask you to take this debate, because on you is the greatest responsibility, not turning into a new reality show, which Serbian citizens can look at, unfortunately, and at this time on some other channels. I don't think this assembly should be. It's your responsibility, you're the only one who can do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We, the other MPs, if we start to impose order, we'll break the Rules of Procedure and I don't think any of us will benefit. I therefore ask you, in accordance with Rules of Procedure and Articles 107 and 27 and many other members of this Rules of Procedure, to respond, to try this discussion in an appropriate manner and hope that I will no longer need to react in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50532	Thank you. Dejan Nikolic, come in. You want to pick up the amendment, or what? (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: Yes. Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50533	Of course, according to the amendment. We've won in parliament here and professional wavers' papers, but the only more pointless thing than that is to answer pointless accusations and allegations. So, I'd like to apply a little bit to what my colleague Tomic said. Speaking of DRI, we can read reports from public enterprises from 2012 to today. Let's just say, eleven workers pay 30% more than they're allowed to. The management coefficient has increased 86% more than is allowed. It paid 6.3 million dinars in the name of the team, more than allowed. So it's not a 6.3 million team, it's 6.3 million more than it's allowed, so the question is, what were they up to at those lunches and dinners, if we know they're talking about a monopoly company. We can talk about it. There's no problem in cheering people up with such replicas now, but I don't agree to this dialogue in the form of newspaper articles. We've made serious amendments, serious laws are on the agenda. Minister, engage and break this political agony here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50534	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50535	A very fruitful debate and everything was heard and there are representatives of all social groups, perhaps even more than should be, but it gives one color to this whole debate and the minister himself got involved, so he started mentioning the former regime -- in our time, so as it used to be, it'll be better now. Here, for information Mr. Minister, yes, there were some former regimes. Here I confess, was part of one. It was in 2003 and then the NIS was in Serbian hands and made profits and paid into the budget what was necessary, the EPS also. We put Telekom back in Serbian hands, bought it when the Red Black Coalition, those who don't now remember being radicals and those others who remember but don't care if they were in power, sold it to their Italian mob friends. So we got it back. And this Telecom also worked with profit and paid into the budget what follows the budget. (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Where have you been? ) It seems to me to hear someone trying to settle a question, so if he wanted to ask me where I was then – I was the president of the Serbian government. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: When you shook your hand with Arkan, where were you? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Look here. ) Tell me, this article defines what public enterprises are doing. Here's a check question. Let's see if it's realistically possible to get rid of this law. Under what law, Mr. Minister, under what law can the EPS of Serbia now charge a TV subscription for RTS, when it is registered only for electricity trade? Let's explain it to me and have you solved it by this law or by any other law?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50536	Time. Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, the applicant.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50537	I thank the president. So, the amendment is simple – it's deleted. Mr Sertic, I would like to, as a minister who very often pollutes with opposition MPs, just to warn you that this law, because of its harmfulness, has been proposed to wipe out in general, therefore, every member of it. We don't think it can be fixed to the end by amendments, and I think the disturbances you know yourself in this law are so great that I can't get rid of them even in some way if you would agree to more than 50% of what you're proposing to change now. What is very indicative of us is that this law is also harmful because dozens of members are engaged in directors and are engaged in failed public enterprises where the Republic of Serbia is saving on some pensions, saving on some salaries, and then that money is being poured into failed public enterprises, where you are dealing with this law as to how many directors of failed public enterprises have the rights, how many are those who have to decide tomorrow about the future and in some way the economy of Serbia as a whole. How many directors who are the directors of Serbia's biggest losers and the biggest budget spenders, the domestic budgets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can expect certain benefits tomorrow. We think it is not serious and that this law cannot deal with this subject in this way, not to say that it is still the result of some very bad laws from 1996, when it comes above all to the Law on Public Enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. So it is very important that in one comprehensive and very serious way we approach this problem, not that in dozens of members we are dealing exclusively with the rights and obligations of the directors who are the biggest spenders of domestic budgets in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50538	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50539	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I suggest that the amendment be rejected, especially by Mr. academic congratulation, for a reason, I could, uh, quote 50, just five in a hurry to list. Because it's unsupervised, second -- irrational, third -- meaningless, fourth—provoking, fifth—negatorically still not to point out. Again in this Article 2 is deleted, deleted, etc., which means erasing the energy area, traffic, not to mention further. What's important, and that's that the explanation that the proposings gave, has nothing to do with this, Mr. Minister, the Law on Public Enterprises. If a student of academic honesty looked at this argument, I guarantee you, none of them would say that the argument had anything to do with this law. If any of his students really say he has connections, I'll tear up my degree in Dr. Science here in front of the TV cameras. So I suggest that the amendment be rejected. And Madam President, since we heard just before the sentence that this government did nothing, let me say three - four sentences, because it is in some way an insult to both us and the dignity of the National Assembly, not just to the Government. Allow three, four sentences. I ask you, gentlemen of the opposition benches, has this government of Alexander Vukic consolidated public finances, reduced the budget deficit and increased the gross social product? Is it or isn't it, answer me tonight? Did this government of Alexander Vukic create a favourable environment and jump from 91st to 59st place on the World Business List, which means 32 positions, the largest jump of a country in nine years? Have you, gentlemen, tried to deny it, this government has increased investment in 2015 to a billion and 700 million euros, and you've foretold only 200? Did this government vote in UNESCO to keep Kosovo and Metohija from being a member, whether or not it is? Did during this government, Alexander Vukic, manage not to adopt the Srebrenica Resolution, where Serbs were declared with it, in some way, as a genocide people? Did this government impose sanctions on the Russian Federation? Of course not. Try to deny it. Did this government of Alexander Vukic reduce unemployment from 26% to 17%, did the opposition gentlemen not? Has this government of Alexander Vukic started producing ships? Here, we saw a ship in Sremska Mitrovica the other day, and the last 20 years have not. Is it or isn't it? Did this government of Alexander Vukic chair the OSCE well for all world powers? Has this government successfully solved the migrant crisis through Serbia, which has been recognised by all the world powers and the United Nations? Do you want me to count more? I can do it by tomorrow, but I don't think it makes sense. Dear gentlemen of the opposition...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50540	Ambassador, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50541	Here, I'm done. This is a tall home where we, here, discuss here tonight. When we took the oath, we said we'd tell the truth. I'm just recommending myself and you all, let's hear a little bit about whether or not we're telling the gentlemen of the opposition the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50542	Thank you. Both Goran Ćirić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic submitted their name above members and Article 2 of the amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50543	The previous two amendments have been submitted, Mr. Minister, and it seems to me that you have admitted that it is important, if you have not now accepted them, to define in the future law and the DS is that it really needs to define a law of public interest, in which public enterprises should be regulated, separating infrastructure from operations. This is where we gave the amendment that we very precisely define this particular area, much more precisely than it was given in a member of the proposed law. Therefore, Article 2 would read – works of public interest within the meaning of this law are activities which are as such defined by law in the fields of production, transmission and distribution of electricity, production and processing of coal, research into production, processing, transport and distribution of oil, natural and liquid gas, transport of oil and petroleum products, rail, postal and air transport, telecommunications, production and supply of arms and military equipment necessary for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, issuing of the official voice of the Republic of Serbia, information, publishing of textbooks, use, management, protection and promotion of goods from general interest, water, roads, mineral raw materials, forests, water rivers, lakes, coasts, spas, game and communal work. So, very precisely defined areas. Since I do not have much time to analyse each of these areas, I would show on one occasion how much more precise this definition of ours is, where you say in Article 2 – both weapons and military equipment, and we said – the production and supply of arms and military equipment necessary for the defence of the Republic of Serbia, therefore, above all for the defence of the Republic of Serbia and the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because commercial transactions in arms trade, in our opinion, are not public interests. These are important jobs for the Republic of Serbia and all employees in the area, but these cannot be public interests. Public interest is security, security of citizens and defence, and that is clearly defined here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50544	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50545	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the amendment not to be accepted. I spoke earlier, and now, all together when these proposals are looked at by the proposings, that the concept of general interest with the public interest is not good and all these efforts end right here, their proposal on Article 2, or in a few minutes, when we hear that they propose to delete Article 3, but that is, the end, there is no further. This does not solve a problem that, for example, here in the next review, that there is the same concept of general interest in Article 4, that it exists above Articles 7 and 7, that it exists in Article 9, Article 11, 14, etc., as much as you will. So, if we want to seriously deal with something that represents the law, please, read it to the end, and make a proposal to change anywhere where it should possibly change, not in a flat, not in part, and certainly not with the goal of talking about something without having the right effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50546	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, ZZS, ZS. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50547	Thank you. Article 2 defines the activities of general interest and the first position of this article has listed these activities of general interest and our parliamentary group has no objection to this position. However, in the second position, it is said – the activity within the meaning of Article 1 is also municipal activities, as well as other activities defined by law as activities of general interest. Our opinion, and our amendment, is that this second part of the sentence is deleted and that Article 2 reads - the actions in terms of the position of the first member are also communal activities. Why did we comment on this position of Article 2? We think the formulation is inaccurate, we think it gives us the possibility of a different interpretation. I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, what are the other actions that can be put into action of general interest? I'd like you to make it clear to me what actions you've been specifically thinking about, and they're not listed here. You must be unequivocal in defining the activity of general interest, since the exercise of these activities can be entrusted to a company whose owner is not a state and private. Our justification for the adoption of the amendment is explained and argued, and it seems to me that your argument is typical, since it is similar to what you have given to the amendment of a colleague from the DS to the same member, or any amendment that refuses to go along with the argument that the bill accurately defined this provision of the law. I'd like to hear from you what kind of actions are of general importance and they're not listed here, and which ones did you mean when you introduced this formulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50548	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50549	You have received in your material an explanation for your amendment and I will repeat it only as you suggested to write it, and in it I will give an answer why we cannot accept it. Therefore, Article 2 reads - the work within the meaning of Article 1 of this Law is also municipal activities, as well as other activities defined by law as activities of general interest. If we were to delete that part after the comma, we would limit the possibility that tomorrow if a ministry were to propose a special act law, not to fall under the authority of this Law on Public Enterprises. We just want to cover, in a broad sense, all possible companies that will deal with various activities of general interest, so that we as a state can control them much better and to direct their work to a completely different organization than anything that has happened today. That's why we can't accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50550	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50551	Dear President, Mr. Minister, what you just said is the opposite of what you wrote, because you say in your explanation that it is not accepted, given that the bill accurately defines areas of general interest, and that they are consistent with areas that are as such specific laws. We want this law to be precise, to wipe out that width that you're now talking about, because when we get contracts with this government, these incompetent people who've been leading Serbia for four years, that this width, then we get "Belgrade on water", then we get contracts with "Etihad", then we get various other fog sales from which citizens don't benefit. Our wish with this amendment is for the law to be precise, to cover exactly the areas that are mentioned, not what the minister is saying now – we want to have width. What's the width of the minister? What's wide enough for you? We are against such solutions, because we believe they leave a great possibility of abuse, corruption, and that is why through this whole law we have proposed such amendments. Please, you and your associates who write these arguments, agree to the stories, because you've just said one thing, and you've written another, but it's the manner of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50552	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50553	The words of the previous speaker show all the difference in our policy. Unlike the time when JAT had the farthest destinations, which it managed to fly to Podgorica or Sarajevo, we have Budapest, we are now proud of Air Serbia, which will be flying for the United States since June and we will be flying from this part of Europe to New York. Thank you for noticing... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Are you the one? ) Thank you for noticing this, but you don't have to do this animosity, and for showing your inability to bring such a single company to the level at which it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50554	Don't throw it away, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50555	It's all manners, Madam President. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: a man must react to this nonsense. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50556	Be a gentleman, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50557	We understand each other, Mrs. Gojkovic, but nervousness, political hatred is not treated by throwing away things like this that we've been exposed to for the past two years in the National Assembly Hall. We are also proud of "Belgrade on Water". Unlike those old ships that were caught by corrosion and rust, those garrisons where people lived in extremely inhumane conditions, in those things that weren't Belgrade's face... We are proud that in this way in this area of Belgrade, Belgrade will get one new picture, one picture of a modern, European metropolis. Unlike where you were turning your head from both these midwives and from those old ships and from people who, unfortunately, lived or did some work, now Belgrade has been given a modern promenade, it has established the foundations of the new Belgrade, the foundations of the first towers to come out of the country with the first spring days, because it was also during the winter. Now that you were unable to do such a thing, not in the area of Berograda on Water, where you were unable to do even ten acres of wages... (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Prokop. )......................................................................................................... where you couldn't finish the Prokop, I thank you, Mr. Atlagic, for reminding me, not after 40 years. Now you're not comfortable with what's going on, what's going on, it's incompetent to you, and it's competent that you've been filling your pockets and stopping our country's growth. That's the difference between our policies, that's the difference between policies, and that's why we're going to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with future policy, development policy unlike you who go out with hate policy and nothing else. What else can you offer? You had the chance for ten, twelve years. You have a chance now in Vojvodina to show, so you've shown only affairs, nothing else. Unlike the government of Alexander Vukic, which has results behind it, these results are measurable by the advancement of our business list, by opening the first chapters and all those things that mean the reform of our society. Just because you don't like the progress of your country doesn't necessarily mean that everything that does both "Air Serbia" and Belgrade Airport, other public enterprises and what is done in the framework of "Beeding on Water", you can't and you don't have the right to represent as bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50558	Here you go, MP. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50559	Of course, citizens can see the results of this government's work at every turn. They can go to see a freeway runway open two months ago, which now looks like the Turks are plowing the country. That's what the highways you open look like. It's a picture of Serbia. They can see the foundations you built and the promotional booth, where a luxury restaurant was built. It's the only thing you've done. You can open the model museum you've built for these four years. They can take a meter of rails that you made the citizens to see, and they can open their pockets and see what they have today, and what they had four years ago, to see what schools children go to. You were the only one who knew how to paint the Dirt, so good for you. Well done! It's a great success. For $25 million from the Kuwaiti fund, which you didn't agree to, but someone who was in power before you. Wherever a man turns in this Serbia is going down. Duing list, so read it. There's a star on that Duing list. He says Serbia has progressed nine places, as the calculation methodology has changed. Look at that. Every writer can look at it, but he just needs to know two letters so he can read it, which seems to be some of the problems here tonight and today. I look forward to the election and, you'll see, in those elections, you'll be very surprised. Just look forward to it. Those who called the election, looking forward, confident of their success, woke up in agony the night after the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50560	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50561	I look forward to the election, and I will always look forward to it when we ask the citizens of Serbia what their opinion is. That's what I'm looking forward to, and you're not comfortable running away from citizens' opinions, what to do to you. If we painted it, it means you couldn't even paint it. At least we painted it. We turned around, and you didn't do it either. On the other hand, I can't forget those anthological scenes of a political model, the former president of the state, as he walks around Belgrade, so professionally squatting, so he checks with his fingers the hardness of the asphalt. Look, it's an anthological how it's professionally checked. Imagine these anthological scenes of the former president of the state taking pictures next to two bogeys, the Ibari highway, and he says, "Gentlemen, here's the hi vey." The next day of the high branches, all that remains is hi, because those two badgers have moved too. Tell me, how many miles of highway have you made? Well, they may have some kind of hole, but how many miles of highway did you make? What about Corridor 10? What about Corridor 11? You've made Corridor 11 from field to field. You know, in one field, you make one hundred meters, and then you have tens of kilometers of field, and then there's some asphalt over there. Anyway, it didn't do anybody any good. You haven't solved property-legal relations either. How many pens did we have to pay? Thank God we had an understanding from Azerbaijan and other contractors, so they didn't charge you for your bad bargaining. You couldn't even make the contract right, let alone build a mile of highway. Now, because of this political hatred, which I can't possibly understand, they don't want, they simply would like to have guns and to raise that asphalt, not to put up that asphalt, so whoever is in power. If he's developing my country, if he's building my country, I'll say all the honors he'll have left for some future generations. Why do you feel bad for your progress? Guys, it's for both yours and our kids, it's for everyone. This "Belgrade on Water" will not take me home, nor will anyone take home. The "Belgrade on Water" will operate, the whole state will operate. Someone will come, buy an apartment, buy a business simple, someone will work in that "Belgrade on Water". That flight to America, after how many years? What country in the area has direct flights to America, from Istanbul to Vienna? He's the only one in Belgrade. (Alexandra Jerkov, from Hungary. All right, and I accept Hungary. But someone will come to Belgrade to fly to America, spend it, and someone will make a living. Why do you hate the state's progress, why don't you fit the country's progress on that business list? I'd be the first to applaud that you've done anything forward, but not showing the ability to make progress don't hate those people who make progress no matter how hard it is. If someone's trying, if someone's pulling forward, why is it your only job to stumble, to put obstacles, invented obstacles? For who? Would you be pleased if something fell apart in our country? What will you be pleased about? Who's gonna benefit from that? People, do you think the citizens of Serbia who are watching this right now are happy, is Mr. Djurisic going to give me a wound or am I going to hurt him verbally, of course? No, they won't, they're asking us for answers, they're asking for solutions, they're asking for progress, they're expecting a better life, and what are we doing here? We're rooting for something to crash, we're rooting for a hole in the road. Great. Who's gonna benefit from all that? If you think that's your benefit, it's okay but it speaks more of you than we do, regardless of the obstacles, regardless of the challenges, regardless of all the stumbling you seem to be only ready, we'll continue to drag you forward. Regardless of the difficulties, we will continue to advance on this business list and on the opening of chapters and on everything we have been dedicated to in the previous period, but also in the future. Serbian citizens are the only ones who can say what they think and who they want, and we will always respect that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50562	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a 107 member who has been brutally violated by Mr Mark Djurisic. I respect every MP's right to know or not to know the historical facts, to know or not to know Serbian epics, Serbian folk songs as you wish, but I think that Mr. Marko Djurisic unfairly accused the Turks of saying that the Turks had plowed the bushes, which is absolutely incorrect. According to folk tradition, in folk history, Marko's folk songs were plowing the road, and the Turks trampled the plowing. Therefore, the Members of Parliament have the right to cheer for the holes, but I am still rooting for the journey and I think the Turks are unjustly blamed. That hasn't happened since the former president's cow got damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50564	He can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. If it's me, I realized that he took it more Colloquially from folk songs, so I didn't think Marko Djurisic wanted to insult any state of Turkey. Do you agree? Let's not vote on it, though. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50565	Yes, I'm joining an apology to the Turks. Of course, they didn't plow. But I don't know who was plowing the way to Corridor 10, maybe if the Prime Minister was going to open that runway, bend it and then tap it down, you'd realize it wasn't the asphalt that was down there, but something else, because that last layer wasn't put up, but it had to be because of propaganda, because of the choice to open that highway back then. To come 200, 300 members of the SNS with flags and to make a story about how something is done in Serbia. As for the roads, gentlemen, for four years from 2008 to 2012, the 180km highway in Serbia was completed, and during that time every mile of highway that was completed from 2012 to this day today, all these kilometers were designed, provided financing, completed expropriation. I'd like to hear a mile, a meter, a inch of highway has been agreed in the last four years, a new highway. Yes, he may have gone from field to field, but what you've done in four years' time, to connect the highway from Ljig to Belgrade, to connect Pojata and Preljina, the highway to make, to start projecting, to secure funding, anything to get the highway from Preljina to the border with Montenegro. The only thing you can say is, one single meter of highway. You open factories agreed in 2011, 2012. Which factory did you arrange in these four years? Arranged, didn't you open?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50566	Just don't yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50567	Some don't hear. There's been a problem here that I don't hear from you, and I'm making it easier for you and the other MPs to understand what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50568	Thank you for explaining. I hope you will now adopt your recommendation from an hour ago, to discuss the amendments to the laws as well. You asked me personally, now I'm asking you to go back to the amendments after all. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, together with MPs Goran Ćirić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic, together with the MPs. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50569	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Madam President Gojkovic, I agree with you, it is my turn that, above all, the SNS MPs are invited here to take a serious approach to the debate on our amendments, which has not been the case so far, and I am judging by their appearances on the previous amendments. We have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law defining the concept of a public enterprise and other forms of organisation. Dear gentlemen, the minister has answered us, he says - this amendment cannot be accepted because there are no reasoned reasons for the proposed amendment. Then he joined him in the argument, MP Professor Atlagic, who said he would break up his doctoral degree if it turned out that some of the things he mentioned were not true. There's one thing he mentioned, and it's not true, that our argument to Minister Sertic is 85 words. No, here's Mr. Becic to say here, he's the vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50570	Would you like to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50571	About the amendment, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50572	You speak the number of words and the rest and you don't mention the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50573	Here, the amendment to Article 3 that we have submitted, which Mr Sertic said has no explanation, and for which Mr Atlagic makes 85 words, has exactly Mr Becic 345 words. I expect Mr. Atlagic to stand up now and say to separate his sewn doctoral degree, since I am now in view of this amendment, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50574	It's a bad attempt to challenge the replicas. Come on, please, about the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: You, Mr. Becic, obviously did not read our amendment and explanation. Why Mr. Becic? It was time to read. I've read everything. Thank you. That's why I'm warning you, because I read your amendment and you haven't said a word of it. Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50575	Dear Vice President, I will be here publicly and openly, since the previous speaker Mr. Academic Honesty, Mr. Pavicevic called me and said falsely, I repeat once again, if I said, please look at the stenograms, that there are 85 words that he stated, and said that Mr. Pavicevic, I will again, in front of the citizens, evaporate my diploma. So I didn't say that. Those aren't my words, they're Mr. Risticevic's. And once again, if there's an explanation of the amendment to Article 1, which he gave, and two, no connection, I'm going to say again that I'm going to evaporate the diploma. I repeat, Mr. Vice President Becic, I didn't say, he made a harsh misrepresentation 85%, words, but Mr. Risticevic did. That's what the citizens heard. That's what these MPs heard. I'm asking that Mr. academic congratulation apologize to me if there's at least a little academic congratulation in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50576	Thank you. Tell them the folk emissary mg of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you don't do well with the law, Mr. Sertice. You're sick of the law, that's why you're sick of this Article 3, so we suggest you delete it. What Mr. Atlagic would say - he's safe. I think that's the word he used for our amendments. That's the law. You of course believe that this amendment of ours should not be adopted, you believe that this member of the law should remain, just like the law, but see what the problem is in it. You're here saying that public enterprises are those enterprises that carry out the performance of the general interest, and you don't see the problem in that, Mr. Sertic, which we have public enterprises where the secret of the pay is the people who run them. We have public enterprises where there's a secret where these people pay taxes. We have public enterprises where it is a secret how many Serbian citizens cost those salaries. We have public companies where it's a secret how these companies operate and you still think it's okay to talk about some general interest when it comes to public enterprises, and you agreed, Mr Sertic, to an agreement in which you declare such important information secret. When we talked about Jelizara Smederevo, you say - you are forbidden to publish whether it is true that these people have monthly salaries of several hundred thousand euros. Why did you sign such a contract, Mr Sertic? Well, it's a financing company from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is an enterprise funded by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia with reduced salaries and pensions. How could you bring in a management costing hundreds of thousands of euros per month to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia claiming that in six months he will have some success, that Jelizara will get out of trouble, and we have a situation that Jelizara is in an ever greater minus? And then what they're doing is they're telling Jellyzar -- it's a coup. It's not a coup, it's said how many people have salaries that you've brought and declared their receipts secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50578	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50579	I suppose, honourable MPs, all of you, when you get the law, you should read all the members, get acquainted with the subject, know little or if you don't have direct information or knowledge from your education, ask one of your colleagues, what are public enterprises, what are other types of businesses, how does it work if we talk about economics. The letter mentioned a Article 3 earlier in which no way was defined by any of the things she mentioned earlier, she spoke. We have a special law, which we will talk about, in which we have defined certain things related to Jelizara Smederevo, and just to inform you, so that you know about the future, Jelizara Smederevo is not a public company and is not financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50580	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50581	Well, it's no secret that between 2006 and 2012, expenditure on behalf of employees in the AP Vojvodina is higher by equal to a billion dinars. A billion dinars went to a strict and only party employment of similar DS personnel and you can't say that – well, you know, you're making something up now. Well, look at the budgets of the AP Vojvodina, so look at the expenditure on employees from 2006 to 20012 billion dinars. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a billion dinars went to the party activists DS. A billion dinars and it's no secret, to be like a previous pay phone, co-worker. But I wouldn't want to stay if I hadn't answered all the questions. In the period from 2008 to 2012, I am really grateful to my colleagues from "Serb Corridor", and from the "Serb Road" and from the ministry who provided me with the information that from 2008 to 2012 a year has been built and built up to 10km of highways, up to 10km of highways per year. In 2015, 64.2 kilometers of highway was completed. In a year, 64.2 kilometers of highway. In 2016, we plan to finish 107 kilometers this year. The following year, 49km, with the direction towards Macedonia fully completed, according to Bulgaria and Ljig-Preljina's move. These are our results. So, 64.2 kilometers of highway in a year, unlike your poor 10km, but I am grateful for that 10km, and even from the field to the field, which says counterpart Rakic, vice president of the Infrastructure and Building Committee, who knows this information extremely well, which means that this is 6.4 times better than what you've been doing and therefore don't get those 6.4 times better results so with such hatred, because I accept these minor results and I say thank you for these 64.2km highways built in 2015, primarily those who worked day and night, those employed both in "The Paths of Serbia" and in "The Corridors", those people who were direct performers. It's not easy to fly, it's not easy to provide this asphalt at high temperatures. These are people who do extremely difficult and responsible work. Thank them primarily, and then the government of the RS and the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50582	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Replica Minister. Mrs. Jerkov, by amendment? The minister didn't mention you. Alexander Jerkov throws. ) He did not mention, he asked MPs to read the laws carefully, and if they do not have the opportunity, they are not expert in the area to seek help, to be instructed to do so. So you're even... He even said to the Messengers, and to the apostle who spoke. So please, you know my rule that only if you have a name and a last name to mention can you, that's how I interpret the Rules of Procedure, unless you're offended, and in this case it wasn't. So these misreads of exposure, especially in the case of such a large number of amendments. Jovan Markovic throws. ) Mr. Markovicu, Miss Jerkov is doing this very skillfully herself. You don't have to be a lawyer, throw in, throw in, and break the Rules of Procedure. There's no need, Mr. Markovic. You were a courteous man. You were the president of the municipality. Don't act like you're doing this right now. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: After the amendment. According to the amendment, Miss Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50583	I accept Mr Sertić that Jelizara is not a public company, but you can tell me, because it is not financed from the budget, but from the Development Fund, to tell me only whose money is in the Development Fund and when you respond, and then please answer – how much money they have and where they pay taxes, because it is in the Development Fund that money is citizens. Believe me, they don't care if you made a game of words, because money is theirs in one case or another, and you hide what their salaries are and where they pay taxes in either case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50584	I would ask the MPs to really return to the amendment under discussion. If you don't understand what amendment we're discussing right now, if you don't have any amendments in front of you, I will read the amendment every time, if it's your pleasure. So, I'm not going to let you speak out of the amendment that's under discussion from this moment on. Thank you. Does someone want to talk on the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50585	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain why the Proposer is asking to erase everything about the public enterprise, about the general interest. I repeat, they had a public interest that came down to about private business. Well, let me explain. Gentlemen, that will be very clear. Prior to the privatisation of the NIS, when it was in the public interest, or in their interest, it was 2008, the ministers, showed a loss of eight billion. A loss of eight billion NIS. It was equivalent to about 10m euros, if I'm not mistaken. So, eight billion, that's at least 10 million euros. The profit achieved after privatisation, and to be honest, the NIS did not sell the SNS, nor did this majority, but some other majority who are now objecting to it, was 50 billion next year, which was somewhere over 500m euros, if I'm not mistaken. Now, I don't understand how this happened and under what circumstances, so these amendment promoters should explain to us whether this public interest was to empty our pockets, fill their pockets and make a loss? Where there was supposed to be a half a billion win, to make... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Is this the topic? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50586	Mr. Djurisic, I can't hear Mr. Risticevic, because you've been throwing it all along. If Mr. Risticevic isn't talking about the subject, I can't hear anything now, because all the time from the DS parliamentary group and by the way, he's throwing himself at you and making noise in the O.R. Let me hear what Mr. Risticevic is saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50587	My question is very clear – how much was it stolen from NIS, when after privatisation the profit was 500m euros, and before that was lost? Therefore, I claim that the party of the former regime, instead of public interest, had a private interest, was emptying the pockets of citizens and filling its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50588	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50589	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, I have an understanding of the amendments' assessments as they have given and with the reasons in the report that the Government has given, but I will make another effort to draw your attention to perhaps some additional facts and circumstances that might change your mind when it comes to the amendment proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, which I have signed. The reminders for this matter, in principle, I have pointed out something that in no case can be ignored and facts that cannot be doubted. It's about companies that actually exist, companies that in fact have founders, where more units of local self-government are legitimateized as founders. It is companies which, among other things, carry out activities of general interest. It's about companies that have the legal status of public enterprises. It's about companies that cover huge areas in the performance of their activities, and a few thousand square miles. I cited in a principle debate that an undertaking is operating on a territory of 5300 km square, covering the territory of nearly 10 units of local self-government. However, this company is not subject to legal norm. The explanation I received when the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group, whose signatories I am, states that this issue has been regulated by another law. Unfortunately, it's not, because it's a public enterprise. We will have new companies after the regional dumps, respected Minister Sertic, which will also act of general interest. We've got them now. After the dump, it's recycling centers. If God gives, and the government does, there will also be burner rooms, there will be thermo-energys, everything that falls again under the public interest and anything that can be linked to the activity of precisely these enterprises. I have to draw attention to that, given that the Law on Public Enterprises does not recognise these companies, at least not in terms of their structure, at least not in terms of the constitution of their bodies and bodies, at least in terms of the property structure of these enterprises, then we have a problem with the lack of legal regulation. The legal system, since I'm a lawyer, I have to say, in no way does not allow improvisation, does not allow volunteerism, and here volunteerism exists for the simple reason that those who manage these companies have a desire and will, but they do not have a legal framework under which they can undermine the way in which they choose the director of the company, the property structure within the capital of the company and everything else that bothers these undertakings of regional character. I know that you have one broader scope of observation, that you know that not only are companies in this status, we also have public institutions covering a large part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia as part of their activities. We have a cultural-type public institution in Zrenjanin, which covers quite a number of municipalities. The question of legal regulation is also raised. I think this approach that the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, when it comes to this part of the law, means only one goal, that public enterprises that effectively exist as regional enterprises must be systematised somewhere. By the nature of the things relating to the status of such enterprises, it is most logical to be systematised in the provisions of the Public Business Act, given the fact that all these companies have in their name when entering the Agency for Commercial Registers, that is exactly the kind of name – public enterprises whose activity is to do business of general interest. I just have to remind myself that the legal system is a whole of non-controversial norms, mutually harmonised, which in this situation must exist when it comes to this establishment, the structure and the further development of public enterprises which, as I said, have a purely regional character. Please respect the appeal of those who are currently in charge of these companies, that is their governing structure, which asked a number of questions when they asked the opinion of the resolution ministries, starting with the fact how to establish a founding act. We have already given amendments here the possibility that the founding act in this situation must be a contract and there can be nothing else, because the contract is signed by all those who are participating in the establishment of enterprises, and the founders are units of local self-government, at least two. Of course, there are more in a specific case. In order to conclude this contract, it is logical that each unit of local self-government at the level of decision of the unit of local administration, since it is solely within the authority of the assembly, will decide on the establishment of a regional enterprise and on the basis of decisions of the local self-government assembly, can be reached, or concluded, a contract in which all signatories of the units of local self-government will define the issue of such a way and the status of undertakings having a regional character. I ask you to reconsider this amendment, it would be a great pleasure for you to tell us, because it would make it easier for those who work in these regional enterprises to know what the legal framework is if it is already in the explanation that there is another law that defines these issues that I have opened, which is the legal procedure under which the law is and in what way it is defined. We're not, as you know, considering that we're a responsible part of government law critics in the sense that we're asking to delete everything. Far from that, especially considering the fact that the political atmosphere when it comes to these laws has been backwards for more than 20 years in a completely identical way defines certain issues and the election of the directors who are being asked from political structures, everything that has been a criticism exists back quite a long time. We're not going to deal with this, but that's why we're dealing with these amendments which, by the deep conviction of the parliamentary group, are the SPS, I'll be free to say to my own, I can only contribute to improving the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50590	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Ciric, do you want to follow the amendment, Mr. Jovanovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50591	I'm sorry, Mr. Becic, that you didn't give me your word when I responded to the amendment that we gave to our colleagues from the DS Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50592	Mr. Kiriq, don't, I don't expect you to say what's not true. You have not been reported, it is not enough that you have been read by the president, as the amendment promoter, you have to sign up if you want to speak by this amendment? The moment I moved on to the amendment, Mr. Jovanovic, no one was in the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50593	Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50594	I can't give you back your time because you said something that wasn't true. I had to react. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50595	It's hard to convince with you, and I have no intention. What I'm saying is that this Article 3 is something that proves and brings really extra confusion into defining the concept of a public enterprise. I think we also showed it in the first, second and third amendments, where we insisted on the roof law on the exercise of public interest. Then we'd have a much more precise definition, because the only correct interpretation of the concept of a public enterprise is actually viewed as a synonym for a company of capital that carries out activity of public interest. Which means that it's already defined in the Business Society Act and it doesn't have to be re-standardized and defined and introduced through this law. That is why we have tried in the package for these first four amendments and for the title of the law, but also for the first three amendments to try to make a proposal and offer and what would contribute to the quality, and more quality, and a more comprehensive approach to solving the problems of public enterprises, work, efficiency and the provision of quality services to citizens of Serbia. So I'm sorry that you didn't have hearing and accepted our amendments, and I'll repeat, I think it would be important and it would be meaningful, because you've already suggested that you accept both our thinking and our goal, the DS has said what the position on public enterprises is. This is primarily the objective of declaring the objectives in which the infrastructure in which the operations will be separated will be divided and we can do so in almost any area where public interest is defined with principles in which we will give up privatisation at any cost, and above all infrastructure that is important for the management of the state and over which operations and competition over operations can be encouraged. When you sell out the infrastructure, you don't have those opportunities, when you sell out the "Electro Network of Serbia", when you sell out the telecommunications channels, the optical channels, when you sell out the processing in the "Post-Serbia" system, when the airport is sold out, there's no competition anymore. And we can agree on that. The Democratic Party is not in favour of state ownership, that 51% over infrastructure with the possibility of a private-public partnership, but also private capital that will compete over this infrastructure in providing better quality services and cheaper services to Serbian citizens. I think that's our goal. It is clear only one thing, we know that state capital is not the most efficient, we know that no one needs state monopoly, but we also know that the worse than the state monopoly is only when you establish a private monopoly, the moment you privatise the entire infrastructure, then you are at risk of private monopoly, then Serbian citizens get the most expensive and least quality service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50596	Thank you. Although, you haven't talked about Mr. Jovanovic's amendment. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50597	Yes, I would really ask MPs to talk about amendments, it's a large number, and we can hardly follow different proposals on the same amendment. I will concentrate on the proposal, i.e. the first MP to comment and propose to define the founders of public enterprises and to define it and to be more units of local self-government, but this issue has already been defined by the Law on Community Works, as well as the Law on Local Self-Government where the conditions and methods of organisation and association of enterprises are very precisely defined. This is in no way, therefore, merely the establishment, the number of units of local self-government, regional character, in any way not affecting this law on the obligations that a public undertaking must implement. This law deals, therefore, with the obligations of management authorities, which have businesses towards the Serbian government, in order to set up public enterprises in a way that is corporately well-managed, that we have professional management, that we get efficient, economic business. And what number of founders is, is it one local self-government or more, it's a matter of interest to local self-government. In no way can we derivate the rights of local self-government particularly provided with positive legal regulations. So your observation, you have well detected the possibility, that is, of certain situations where local self-governments jointly organise a particular public enterprise, but every public enterprise that as such registered in the register of public enterprises must respect every letter of law, and even this one that we bring here today in such a form that is far more stringent and far more binding, more defines corporate obligations towards the state than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50598	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50599	I thank the chairman. I'm just asking you to take my time away from the time of the authorised representative because he's not here, and I'm the deputy, head of the parliamentary group, so that we don't waste our time needlessly. Of course, the Honorable Minister Sertić that I do not want to develop controversy because you and I have identified an approximately neural point that should sort of be resolved by you being called into two legal acts that do not sort of define questions that I did not ask exactly in the sense in which you did. You have called upon two laws, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Community Action, and I draw your attention to this particular law that we are discussing, which we will support, and which we will vote on is that a public enterprise is founded by a unit of local self-government. If the unit of local self-government is the founder, and is the founder, then a question is asked which is an absolutely logical question, what if one public enterprise is not only founded by one unit of local self-government but more. In this situation, everything contained in the provisions of the Law on Community Works and the Law on Local Self-Government does not define what defines the Law on Public Enterprises. And it can't be defined because it would come into a kind of cohesion. I think there's one kind of possibility of a bad interpretation of all three laws. What I said was a bad interpretation of the law that no matter how much we find touching points, that they're compatible, they're not compatible. And they create volunteerism, create an opportunity for improvisation to regulate something that cannot be regulated. I think that the Law on Public Enterprises must include these companies, which, unfortunately, no matter how much we want them to do, and wanted to take them under the Law on Community Works, then we will also undertake many other companies, enter into another problem or the Law on Local Self-Government. The Law on Local Self-Government defines something completely different, we will have a problem that already exists as a problem in practice. But well, if you think it's a solution, we're going to leave again the practical solution that you've suggested to recognize and the ones to which this law applies and that, in any case, we make these companies more efficient and efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50600	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The People's MP Gordana Komic, after the amendment, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50601	Thank you. The Minister's request to accept this amendment. Regional dumps, such as Deep and those that need to be formed, will have a problem. He'll have a problem with the way he chooses leadership, because of his capital, because of his profits. Regional energy companies and not to be talked about. It's not the topic of the Law on Local Self-Government and it's not even the law on municipal action. In this law, there is one. (Zeljko Sertić, from the place: It is all defined by law. It's a small amount, I don't know, vanity. Accept, man accepts the amendment very clearly. Oh, no? Okay. Thank you. Here, Nejo, I've tried.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50602	Thank you. Mr Mirjana Djokovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50603	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I understood Mr Jovanovic's findings perfectly, and I know what he's talking about, given that I had the opportunity to co-operate with Deeply's deposit. It is true that this Law on Public Enterprises does not recognise regional public enterprises and I know a major dilemma that existed between local self-government, who will give the director. It was mainly about the town of Užica and the town of Cačka, since they are the largest founders, and besides them we have seven municipalities that are in this contract in common. I can only defend the story of Minister Sertic and the Government for such a legal solution, that it is possible to resolve it by means of a contract between local self-government, where according to the participation of the founders will know exactly who delegates the director and who will choose members of the Supervisory Board, and only in this way can I defend the story that this law should not be treated by regional public enterprises, but by the Law on Community Action, as the minister said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50604	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, again after the amendment? Here's to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50605	I will no longer report to this amendment. I'm glad my colleague identified the same problem as me in exactly the same way. Which she mentioned as a founding act. I am pleased, colleague, that is what I have proposed in future amendments following this amendment, but it would only make sense if this amendment was accepted, or adopted. The treaty, as a founding act, should undoubtedly exist and must be systematised in this law. But it's systematiced then because it's not now. Then when we bring a legal structure to that level to say, all units of local self-government, Cachak, Užice, Požega, Luciani, etc., there are nine, will decide at the level of their congregations to access the establishment of a regional enterprise. Only then can we talk about the contract as a founding act, and the esteemed colleague, thank you for accepting it as a reasonable solution. Unfortunately, it is not existing in the draft of this law. Thank you, Minister, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50606	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50607	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS – the SS and it reads that in Article 3(2), the ally "and" is replaced by the words "another form of organisation, under which it is understood". The title above Article 3 covers, in our explanation, and the term ‘other forms of organisation’ and the amendment proposes to specify that, under other forms of organisation within the meaning of this law, the forms of organisation referred to in paragraphs 1 to 3 of Article 2 of this Law are understood. What does not go with our proposal is an explanation which says that the amendment is not accepted because there are no reasonable reasons for the proposed amendment, and also, the bill has already specified that provision. So, quite the opposite of what's standing here. So she's not exactly arranged, and we suggest she settles exactly. So this gives a kind of, let me say, surfaces in reading the amendments and in responding to the amendments, where the roles are replaced. What we've suggested is actually a precision that would eliminate any doubt and remove the possibilities for any manipulation, but you're responsible, and you're not listening to me, so you can't answer me, that other things... You're not listening to me, and you can't answer me. I asked you a question, hardly, considering, probably this previous fairy tale of the emperor's new suit affected you too, so you slept a little in this debate. I ask you to participate seriously in the debate, because our proposals are very constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50608	I ask that we take serious part in the debate, that you return to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50609	That's exactly what I was doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50610	The word has a minister. Mr. Djurishic, do you want the first word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50611	This amendment does not fundamentally change anything. Instead of, practically, just one kind of grammatical clarification, what after "and" should follow and replace. You didn't really propose to change these three points we set. So you didn't suggest any other kind of organization, so let me understand why you'd want to make that more specific. So I don't see any reason why we should accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50612	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50613	Your Honor, I think it's nice that you gave this explanation. And I think it's precisely from your approach to discussing amendments to this law, we have the fact that for three hours now, the Assembly is working, and we've crossed three members of everything. I'm talking about the fact that the government, and I assume, on your proposal, of the 252 proposed amendments to this law, has accepted seven. Except for the amendments to your party's MPs and coalition partners on your list. What's particularly annoying, Mr. Minister, are the arguments that you've given for not accepting as a reason for not accepting the amendment. So in 90% of the amendment's reasoning begins – the amendment is not accepted for reasons, there are no reasoned reasons for the proposed amendment. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, it's an insult to me and my fellow MPs. Because every amendment we've proposed has an explanation. And yes, this amendment was proposed to make the law more precise. Maybe it's too much, but you can't reject it as typical as all the other amendments and say there are no reasonable reasons for the proposed amendment. These are the reasons, the reasons for ours. You can agree with our reasons or not, but you can't write the truth that we haven't explained the reasons. We've explained them whether you agree or not. This is a little technical change, and we're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on about our fundamental grudges on this law because of these untruths. We won't vote for this bill, but you're responsible for having such a long debate, because you insult...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50614	And can we do it a little bit by amendment, then we'd have a brief discussion if we talked about the amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50615	Don't worry about me, let me speak, and you refrain from commenting, if you have... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50616	I can't. The Rules of Procedure won't let me let you talk about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50617	I'm talking about an explanation for not accepting the amendment, Mr. Becic. Listen to what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50618	You spoke of the law and the reasons for not accepting the amendments, how much the government accepted the amendments, which MPs and others. You did not speak of a concrete amendment to article 3 which is your duty under the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djurisic. Here you are, Minister of Replication to Mr Đurisic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50619	So I can just repeat it one more time, which is that, essentially by this change, your amendment, we wouldn't get anything, and your question is about the reasoning the government has given me, I can only accept what we should have practically expanded that sentence and we can write that you haven't explained your amendment well enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50620	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50621	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, so for the sake of truth, we must say what this amendment looks like. So if, in the position of the 2nd member, in addition to the public enterprise, the general interest activity could be carried out and, so we put in a form that says – the form of the organisation under which it is meant, two points and then it is taxed. You really need to be a genius so you can understand the essence of this amendment and what really gives a complete explanation in this, under which you actually refused this amendment. Surely there are amendments that may have a substance that changes this law, improves and improves, and we can talk about them. But in this way, we really can't talk about changing things. Therefore, I think that the citizens of Serbia should know what amendments are being proposed and why they are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50622	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge him not to adopt. I certainly wouldn't have answered for a discussion on this amendment if we hadn't heard some respect for literacy today in the broad debate. I urge the promoters to take a good look at exactly how this is proposed. To take a good look, so when he finds out that it's not what was said by a colleague who originally explained the oral amendment here, it really doesn't agree with our language. I sincerely hope for the well-being of the promoter that I won't have to explain exactly what the problem is. And even to remind you that when we talk about literacy, we're just proposing amendments for this session today and when the promoter says "irritant explanations." These arguments, as written by this promoter, represent the most regrettable in terms of literacy this hall has seen. So, to deal with this seriously, as some people call here even when they're not following it personally and I'm not opening up certain subjects needlessly, some of the topics with some of them don't absolutely pay off here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50624	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Djurishic, do you want to go back to the amendment? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50625	Well, apparently, the colleague who interpreted our amendment didn't interpret it well, but I'm not going to explain it to her right now. As our amendment reads, it can also read the explanation. And what amendments does the government adopt? In Article 64, the words ‘are’ shall be deleted. And you have some grudges about our amendments. On our amendment to Article 3, which speaks of what the concept of public enterprise and other forms of organization is, and then this phrase of other forms of organization does not appear in that article further. We wanted him to appear to know what the title above Article 3 applies to. So it's not essential, but don't insult us with a sentence to obtain an amendment that says it's not accepted because there's no reasonable reason for the proposed amendment. There are reasonable reasons, Mr. Minister, for every amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50626	On the title of Chapter II, Section 1 and Article 4 of the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50627	Thank you very much. Article 4 states that a public undertaking is established for some reasons, including to ensure the continued performance of the general interest, development and improvement of the performance of operations, the provision of technological and technical, etc. the system, the acquisition of profits and the achievement of other laws of established interest. There are many objections, so the amendment is also "expunged". I appreciate the efforts of colleagues who have tried to make some different changes to try to correct the law, but obviously from this debate that this human, noble attempt is completely wrong because the government will not understand it, nor will the present government representative, nor anyone else. That's why the only solution is to delete the amendment. Of course, it will not leave this area without legal regulation, because there is a law that defines the area of public enterprises. So, eradicating this bill in general won't, I repeat, bothers to enforce the law in the work of public enterprises. Before that, I know that this law will be passed and so will this member, but I ask the minister if he wants to hear the debate – which of these five points means to carry out his activity permanently, to get these three, after which of them the EPS of Serbia can charge a subscription to RTS? Tell me, by what member of this law or any other law, an EPS company can charge a subscription for RTS and RTS? If you give me that answer, I'll be very pleased. It will not, of course, change the view of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50628	Time, thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50629	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the fact that it is unnecessary to comment on such an insecurely written amendment is deleted, with an even more deplorable explanation, I must say that for me it is unacceptable to delete and Chapter IV and Article 4 and that it is unacceptable for everyone and we have already heard that this is not a way to fight politically, but I must say that I understand somewhat the desire to delete these members, and that I understand somewhat the desire to be obstructed in this way and that in this way they want to send some of their political message. That is already the problem of the promoter of this amendment. What I don't understand is why they don't want to put order into public enterprises? Why don't they want to put in place a control of the business of public enterprises? You know why they don't want to? Because in this case, the situation could not happen that the director of a public company, whose founder is, say, local self-government, for example Vračar Municipality, the Public Business for the Management of the Business Area of Vračar Municipality, completely destroys the company, destroys it by its own business, by its own management in fact, and then moves nothing to any other company whose founder is the same local self-government, the Vračar municipality, the sports centre of Vracar, without any responsibility, without any control. I can't figure that out. Why is the intensity of preventing this area from being arranged? That's why we need to reject these amendments, and that's why we need to pass the Law on Public Enterprises, as it's written, to prevent such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50630	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Pavicevic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50631	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Becic, the People's MP, Mr. Markovic, in his speech, called our amendment "a deplorable amendment". The Serbian language dictionary says "primitive", obscenity - primitive. Here's a dictionary in front of me. I believe, Mr. Becic, that for our rights, and the application of the amendment is our right, it can't be said that it's impeccable. Your obligation, I think, was to react, you don't have to warn, but to warn Mr. Markovic that he can't say for the right of the MP it's an impeccable thing. And if it happens that Mr. Markovic is tired or other colleagues, you can use your right under Article 101. Rules of Procedure, to give a break to the rest of the SNS MPs, so that after their rest they will continue to participate in the debate that will be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50632	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50633	Well, it's necessary. ‘Insecure amendment’, how is this a ‘obscrutious amendment’?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50634	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50635	I thank the chairman. It has been abused by who knows which time the member of 103 by a short-time speaker, article 103, which provides for the possibility that the MP will advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the first position if he is interested. When it comes to the term "obcious", I'll read it. The term obscenity – dark, dark, closed, dark, but also incomprehensible, foggy, vague, secretive, covert, incomplete. I will remind you that the amendment to the proposal reads to be deleted, do the analogy yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50636	Well, I think that's enough, Mr. Pavicevic, the public heard what you said and what Mr. Markovic said and should only assess whether you or he was right. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I will only take two sentences. I don't want you to use the Rules of Procedure as a replica, so please. I'm taking a break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. I give my word to the People's Parliament, Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50638	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Here, I, too, as a proposer of an unscrupulous amendment, which I believe is unclear to some MPs, who are obviously informed of the meaning of the word from Wikipedia. You don't need to be informed from Wikipedia, it's not exactly a relevant source of information. So point 4 in Article 4 says what public enterprises are educated for, it says – for profit gains. It would be quite fine if our public enterprises were to actually do business with some goal of obtaining profits, so in this light I would ask someone to explain to us how in the light of the acquisition of profits can be observed the way an attempt to sell capital to "Telecoma Serbia", a.d. Belgrade, or how in the light of the acquisition can be observed by the staff and staff of the Serbian Progressive Party in the Railways of Serbia or the EPS, where it is difficult to count those consulting services? I think the citizens were quite surprised by the way the EPS hires consultants, how much they pay for new logos, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50639	Miss Jerkov, I'd like to ask you at least something about an amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50640	I'm talking about the goal of public enterprises to gain profits, Mr. Becic, which I don't think is the situation right now and that's why I'm proposing to delete that member. That's what the article says, and in my amendment, it's deleted. In that sense, it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50641	And you think you can talk about whatever you're thinking about, because you've given the amendment to ask me to delete a member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50642	Can you tell me what to talk about, please? What would you like me to do now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50643	Just to focus on the amendment and finally start talking about the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50644	Catching up to get it. Do you have a law in front of you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50645	I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50646	Whether or not you can find point 4 – get a get-go. Can you see why I believe that the Serbian Progressive Party does not operate in order to gain profits? Now I give examples of what makes it so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50647	You do not specify examples, instructions would be examples of all businesses, not just certain companies run by SNS members. Why don't you talk about companies run by Mr. Pitiæ?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50648	Don't worry, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50649	I ask you to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50650	There's no need.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50651	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50652	Dear Members, I will gladly give you a big and serious example of how the Government of Aleksandra Vukic is doing with public enterprises and what results we made in the previous year. The public company EPS, you know that it was mostly a loser and that, even for the previous year, there was a loss of over 20 billion dinars, as planned. Thanks to the serious reforms that we have implemented, thanks to corporate behaviour and the new organisation scheme of the EPS, which out of 14 companies today only works in two companies, we have made savings of over 24 billion dinars and of the losers who are supposed to be over 21 billion in minus, we will have a final account between two and three billion positive EPS operations for 2015. These are exact data, which can be easily checked, available to everyone, so I invite the opposition MPs to also review these data and come out with the right numbers, not to talk here about how nothing is done and how all businesses are losers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50653	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, put together the title above the members and Article 5 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50654	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, if you would allow me to declare here my words, and not yours, I would suggest Minister Sertic to disband a badly-saved legislative project on public enterprises, and now I will show him how badly designed the project is based on our amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. Here, I'm totally in the amendment, gentlemen. Therefore, last year's 5th definition defines the establishment of a public enterprise, and then says who adopts an act on establishment in the event that public enterprises are founded by the Republic of Serbia, that a public enterprise is established by an autonomous province and that a public enterprise is founded by a unit of local self-government. Dear gentlemen, we have explained here why we believe it should be disintegrated, which is also suggested by professor. Atlagic, a member of the SNS, this legislative project, in the explanation we gave. In an explanation, Minister Sertić, we have led you to this, to remind you, and to meet the MPs who sit here, with our explanation. Our proposal was to give up this legislative project which represents an obvious attempt to drastically disrupt the dignity of the National Assembly and instead of such an approach, Mr Sertic, not only you, but all the MPs of the SNS, to approach a practice worthy of modern democratic, parliamentary states, because it is my assumption that we are all here seeking to establish just such principles. This approach, Minister Sertic, this topic, this area, distances us from what is the ideal of a citizen's life in a modern democratic state. I can never vote for such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50655	Time. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50656	Thank you. Since I have heard only an invitation to an explanation about the amendment, and this explanation is in one sentence and it is exactly the same for all the amendments proposed and that is to say – this amendment has been submitted to bring the amendment to Article 1 in order to bring the text of the amendment into line with regard to the defined objective. And that defined goal has been shown in the explanation of the amendment one, where not a single word is spoken of by public enterprises, but you, Mr. Becic, are mentioned in two sentences. You shall be mentioned twice in the light of the amendment to delete Article 1, Article 2, Article 3. I don't know what kind of connections you, Mr. Chairman, as vice-president of the National Assembly as a legislative body, have with the Law on Public Enterprises, and how can you, Mr. Becic, be in the context of this phenomenal explanation of the amendment? Here, I will read to you, Mr. Bečić, if you have failed, I have been very committed and I have read amendments and explanations, and it is said – instead of inappropriately joining 14 points of the agenda at one point, we suggest that the Government of the Republic of Serbia withdraw the request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, which the Prime Minister sent to the National Assembly on 20 February 2016, unless the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Igor Bečić, first of all, when he mentions you, withdraws his proposal to join 14 points of the agenda into one point within which Mr. Bečić, secondly mentioning, would suggest that he conduct a joint principle and uniform search of the 14 draft laws from the requirements of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: How many words is there? Eighty-eight words, Mr. Risticevic. This is such a phenomenal explanation, which is why it is really necessary to accept the erasure of Article 5, which defines who is setting up public enterprises. Well, who's going to start public companies if the Republic of Serbia doesn't do it if it doesn't do so by an autonomous province or a local self-government unit? I know someone just mentioned it and asked a question -- what law does a RTS tax be charged by? I can also ask the question – on the basis of which law, Mr Sertic, some fifteen years ago, the same one who asked this question, asked a barrel in one big town of Nis and told the citizens – no, don't use those bills to go to EPS counters, but put it in this barrel, and then something burned those bills? By what law did he do it? Who gave him such a right? Because of this argument which speaks more about Mr. Bečić than about public enterprises, who can establish them, who manages them, what are the conditions for the selection of directors, supervisory boards, etc., etc., and more is said of you, Mr. Becic, of course, that this amendment, but also of all others, should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50657	What will you do, Mr. Granny, when I'm papular. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Why do you want a replica, Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am mentioned. Don't, Mr. Pavicevic, there's no need. You are not mentioned and you do not have the right to reply, not even Mr. Atlagic, whom you mentioned, because you consciously do this every time, to cause Mr. Atlagic's reaction and to mention consciously in your presentation of the word of the distinguished professor, so I do not think I should give you the satisfaction. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50658	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I am truly fascinated by the written reasoning of the motions of this amendment, but in our oral explanation we have heard about the dispersal of the model that gives this law, which is the expropriation of a member who speaks of the establishment of public enterprises. The defined goal you have already heard from my colleague Babić, but what is being asked as a big question, here, Mr. Minister, I ask you, since the State Auditor's report says that the AP Vojvodina has not introduced 1,172 ha of land into the records of its books, not 20,000 km of sewage network, is meant by the channels related to the water industry, and 54 state roads of certain categories in length of 2,030 km, what will the “Vojvodnavodovi” and “Vojvodinasum” do if they have no record of their property? This means that by eradicating this amendment, they are committed to shutting down public undertakings in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, such as the ‘Vojvodnasum’ and ‘Vojvodnavodvod’. I think you're the lifeguards of these companies here, because by this amendment, or by rejecting this amendment and leaving Article 5 here, you're giving the possibility that Vojvodina is still developing, despite how ruined it has been in the past 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50659	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word is proposed by Mr. Alexander Jerkov's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50660	Something about what Mrs. Tomic just said. She seems to think she's a sewer network. If this is the way we're gonna talk, we'd better give up. I don't know if she made a mistake or what, but let's get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50661	Miss Jerkov, you're very funny today. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: It is said. ) Do not interpret the presentations of other colleagues. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Thank you. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50662	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to the 10th legislative project concerning property and capital. We, of course, as is the order, as is appropriate, have submitted one explanation for accepting this amendment. In that explanation, of course, you mention yourself, Mr. Becic. What Mr Babic said earlier is all true, but it seems to me, based on Minister Sertic's reply to our amendment, that Minister Sertic was not this careful, as Mr Babic, reading the reasons for our amendments, because if he had read, he would not have been able to send us an answer if we had not submitted an explanation. Plus, the minister here today whispered to us that what we're proposing isn't complete. For example, this amendment to Article 10, whether it is so Minister Sertic, is not comprehensive. Here, nod your head. I then ask you, Mr Sertić, and here is Mr Becic, and Mr Babic, and especially Professor Atlagic, to tell us any of you – why you used the word in general...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50663	Mr. Pavicevic, you don't have to bother calling Mr. Atlagic, because he called right after you, so he'll talk about the amendment. You don't have to try calling him. I must tell you, Mr. Sertic still doesn't know how great your love for me is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50664	He did not read the explanation, gentlemen, and I called for Mr Atlagic to act, because Mr Atlagic, as I understand it, suggested to Mr Sertic to disband this legislative project concerning public enterprises. I only refer to the words of Professor Atlagic, who seems to have read the legislative project in detail and our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50665	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Mr. Atlagic, Mr. Babic, as president of the parliamentary group, has the advantage, although you called immediately after Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50666	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I don't think the amendment promoter is sincere, because he has now said that you, Mr. Minister, are in a position to explain why you refused this amendment stated that this amendment is not comprehensive. However, no word has been used in these two sentences to explain the rejection of the amendment in the fullest sense. It is a used word, which defines that the acceptance of this amendment would undermine the integrity of the regulation of the matter, so that first there was no proposer precise. On the other hand, I totally understand why the amendment promoter was so attached to Article 10 and why he would want to delete it. What defines Article 10? Property and fixed capital. The property and capital, Mr. Minister, wants the promoter to delete, and whose property is that, whose principal capital is public enterprises? All citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not to know what they want to do. This is the point of such an amendment, to wipe out capital and to wipe out the property of public enterprises, thus erasing the property and capital of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the difference in our policies is. We want that capital and that property to be larger, we want it to be promoted, we want to improve the functioning of these public enterprises, that they become richer and larger, because that way our country is richer and bigger, but our citizens, unlike the amendment promoters who want that property with one amendment, are deleted from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we support your and your argument, but not accepting this amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50667	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You're not mentioned in any sentence. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50668	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, I propose that the amendment be rejected because it is not meaningful, meaningless, provocative, negative, etc. because it stands to be deleted. Allow Mr. Vice President, since the untrue statement was made in the interpretation and in Articles 2 and 10 of this article that I said that there are 85 words in one sentence, it is said by the previous speaker, or the amendment speaker, and I did not say that, but Mr. Risticevic, there is no academic congratulation, I do not believe that he has the capacity to apologize here tonight, and I will wait for his apology to collapse the reputation of a university professor. Since this is what our students look at both mine and his, I really suggest that he apologize, because perhaps his students, at least in the elections, will give him one vote if he apologizes. If I don't apologize, I don't believe one will. So, I suggest...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50669	Please, Mr. Atlagic, return to the amendment. Don't talk about other MPs. The word has a copy of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go, Mrs. Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50670	I thank you, given that we are accused of wanting to delete the property of citizens, since the capital of public enterprises, capital of citizens, etc. Serbia's power plant has launched a competition for a new logo, for 42m dinars, Mr Babic, costs a new EPS logo. Ten and a half billion dinars is the loss of EPS in 2014, and this firm is calling for a new logo that costs 42 million dinars, 3.2 billion dinars is the decline in the business revenue of the EPS in 2014, 3.2% of business expenditure growth in 2014, and the EPS is calling for a new logo for 42 million dinars, Mr Babić. So the next time you talk about the property of the citizens, who wants to kidnap the capital of the citizens, look at Mr. Obradovic a little bit, look at the companies that are run by the people you have set up, and please don't say anything from 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011, and 2012, but from 2016, please tell me about the competition for a new EPS logo worth 42 million dinars, because this is now a topic, not the government of Vojvodina and not Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50671	Minister, then Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50672	Well, here's because you're looking for the latest data for 2016 we just started working and we can't give any data, but in 2015 it shows very clearly what the business results of the EPS group will be. So like this, the estimate of net profits for 2015 is positive, with over 2.5 billion dinars. Increasing business efficiency and a better organisation have led to savings of more than 23 billion dinars, thus reducing the number of directors, secretaries, cars and all other costs. A savings of 1.4 billion dinars was made. The maintenance costs amounted to 14.2 billion dinars, a successful and rapid return of production in Kolubara to the level, before the flood, saved an additional six billion dinars, by centralising the procurement system, only four combined purchases saved 1.5 billion dinars. So, instead of the projected loss, of minus 21.2 billion dinars for 2015, the EPS has made a positive result, with a profit of 23.7 billion and a total net score of 2.5 billion. These are the latest data based on work exactly on management and all those dealing with this company in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50673	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50674	Interesting is this data that's being read from a cell phone. I assume they came from the same center that said that Alexander Vukic was in Dubai for the New Year or was also used the same phone when the affair was mentioned and the affair was launched, or the racketeering affair or various other affairs that turned out to be false. Same with a similar phone you read. Interestingly, what is said in advance – no, don't talk about Bojan Pajtic and AP Vojvodina, don't do it, don't talk about it, otherwise the lawsuit will immediately follow. It doesn't matter, sue me, tomorrow the courts work, no problem at all. But instead of that data from the mobile phone screen, what's true is that editing the site at the time of the Dulic's Ministry of Environmental Protection, which may cost a hundred, perhaps not so many euros, has been paid 25,000 euros. For this there is valid evidence and valid data. Twenty-five thousand euros for something my teenage daughter can do in half an hour. What is also true, although I was warned not to talk about it, we can talk about the damage done by Tesla Bank. I think the only banks that were created in this world to make losses are those banks run by DS, whether in the state, whether in the AP Vojvodina. In addition to several recapitalisations, the Tesla Bank lost as much as 2.7m euros over four years by approving a loan without any cover. Second, the collapse of the Vojvodina Development Bank, we can only write memoirs about it. Toms and volumes of books can be written as the "Vojvodine Development Bank" failed, and it is not read from any mobile phone screen. These are data that are valid, correct and are currently in the prosecutor's office of the Republic of Serbia. Who's responsible for this? Insinuations for the EPS logo, I see that someone is very funny when it comes to the great damage done by DS and Bojan Pajtic in the "Vojvodine Development Bank". I see someone's having so much fun, and they're just funny because of the damage done by Tesla Bank. We can see that it's a lot of fun for someone because of whatever he's been doing, whatever he's been doing, it's just causing damage and loss and a lack for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, you first answer, not to me, you do not have to answer me, answer the citizens of Serbia, answer the citizens of Vojvodina, respond to the end and to the judicial authorities, which is why and who is responsible for this damage and ultimately return that money to those to whom it belongs, which is citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50675	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50676	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I assume why the proposings asked for Article 10 to be deleted, and it refers to property and capital founding capital. I guess for a space reason, but I'm surprised. When I met Duke Nikola Parovski in the 1990s at the camp of military, volunteering, Mr. Martinović certainly knows that, Duke Nikola Parovski, he swore to me everything with that black flag and two beans bones that he would keep the capital and property of the Vojvodina enterprises. So I'm surprised he gave up on it, as I'm surprised by the fact that he's been making a lot of mistakes lately. Instead of taking care of the basic capital of public enterprises, founding, to take care of the property, he takes care of where someone spent New Year's, and falls asleep dreaming of Vukic in Dubai, and when he woke up president of his city board in the Maldives, everything with three million Septembers a day, or three thousand euros a day. So I believe that for this reason the capital is founding and that the property of public enterprises in Vojvodina is cleaned up in the style of that action - let's clean Serbia and believe that for these reasons he does not care about this property because we will establish it when we come to power in Vojvodina, which is a quarter of Serbia's territory. To remind myself that it is also a government and to enforce the republican laws on its territory almost everything as entrusted and transferred jurisdiction, so I fear there when we come that all the tills will be empty, that there will be no capital, that everything that was ours has become theirs during the reign of the Vojvodina government, whom I met at the military volunteer camp of the Duke of Milan Parosko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50677	Marko Djurisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50678	This Article 10 on property that speaks the Law on Public Enterprises is less prescribed by the previous law and does not introduce any newspaper. But I want to look back, Minister, in the way you have explained not accepting this amendment by saying about the successes of "Electroprivred Serbia". All I'm interested in is, if it's all so great and great, will this year's energy be cheap? If Serbia's Elektroprivreda is making a profit, should citizens expect cheaper electricity or will the power rise again, or should we at least lift the electricity excise? To somehow make life easier for the citizens of Serbia. Minister, I call on you to see, in addition to those numbers you've been looking at, whether all the plans planned for maintenance were realised in 2015, so that you can see how these 14.6 billion dinars were saved, which you spoke of by the ministers. If we do not invest this year in additional, i.e. 14.6 billion not invested last year, in the reconstruction of the power plant for two years, we will have damages that will be measured by tens of billions of dinars, because some things in "Electroprivred Serbia" cannot be delayed? General remonts are known when they're working, and over the years, Mr. Minister, they're not done, when it's time. This has the effect of jeopardizing the country's electricity stability and stopping working generators on the TENT, or talking about how many lives we're going to lose because it's not investing in deforestation and denitrification plants on the TENT, so the citizens of Obrenovac are being poisoned. Is this a delay as much as it costs us indirectly? The fact that you're waving 14.6 billion dinars here, how many lives will it cost the citizens of Obrenovac? When you look at all this, then come talk about that big secretaries story of yours, about the directors, you said yourself one billion dinars were saved, and these savings were made, because the work that was planned was not done, Mr. Minister. It'll be a shame if you don't do it this year. That is why it is important for citizens to go to the elections and say goodbye to you, Prime Minister Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50679	Zeljko Sertić. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50680	You guys keep wanting to get some new information every time to find out what's going on in Serbia, like you're not living here with us, and you don't have the opportunity to get information from public information. I will give you information on what the EPS launched in 2015 as one of the largest investment cycles since the EPS existed. So, nearly three decades later, the largest investment in electricity in Serbia was launched, the construction of a new 35-megawatt block in Kostolc, and it is part of the second phase of a credit arrangement with Chinese partners. Investment projects have continued, such as the 180m-euro project to improve environmental protection at the Kolubara Mining Baseline. In 2015, the modernisation of the first aggregate of Zvornik hydropower plant began, and after the reconstruction of all four generators, the power of this hydropower plant will be 30% higher, and the total investment is 70m euros and it is secured from the German Development Bank. Projects from the first phase of the Chinese credit arrangement were continued in 2016. The completion of the defunct projects at the Kostolac Termo power plant is expected, which you mentioned earlier. A project to modernise small hydropower plants financed by the IBRD loan is being launched, key to reducing losses in the EPS, saving more than 30m euros. Dear Members, these are the exact figures on the biggest historic investment in 2015 in the EPS. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: where is 200 million...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50681	Come on, if we can't throw it away. Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that the MPs of the former regime live in some projections from their own past. First, when we mention the EPS property especially in the period 2014 someone forgot that we had a major elemental accident and that the EPS property was the most endangered and most exposed to this elemental accident. I also didn't see any colleagues from the DS and their legal and other political heirs when the thermopower plant in Kostolc was threatened to help with the citizens and workers to defend that thermopower plant, but that's why we know we're talking and we're making it up. I listened to a colleague say that EPS property wasn't revitalised. A thermal power plant in Wood belonging to the skeletal thermal power plants has been revitalised completely and for the first time in both blocks since they were built to give 350 million kilowatt-hours. First time. When it comes to decommissioning, the plants for decommissioning the thermoelectric power plant in Kostollac are being brought to an end. What took decades for you took months. When someone asks – whether the electricity will be cheap because it is a product that our EPS gives thanks to the public work it is doing, he forgot to say that during its current regime, it has cost 600%. When we talk about public enterprises, they ran another big public company that was sold. Before it was sold, I mean NIS, 2007 and 2008 had a loss of 80m euros. They've managed so well with the state firm. When it comes to the elemental disaster and flood that has hit our biggest energy system, as I said, I have not seen any of your officials in Obrenovac, they have probably been sitting on the Internet, reading about some invented hundreds of victims, I don't know how they feel, whether by the principle – worse, it's better for us to get some political points, but the elemental accident that happened to Serbia in 2014 is nothing compared to the elemental disaster called DS, Boris Tadic, Bojan Pajtic and the rest of the team. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50683	First, Ambassador Jerkov, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Is that right or have you given up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50684	Thank you, Madam President. Article 158(8) - the legislator, or authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak about each amendment for up to two minutes, with the total duration of the search, etc. Mr Sertic has already spoken of this amendment for two minutes. Now I don't know, can he talk like we're at a session in principle, gets a word whenever he asks for it and doesn't refer to it as time-consuming, or has he got a replica? If he's got a replica, then I guess you should say, as well as to the MPs, what do you say they speak on the basis of a line of rights. Or, if they don't apply to anyone in the Rules of Procedure, say so, so that we know that we can talk whenever we want and as much as we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50685	Thank you for answering on my behalf, and you're right. So this is where it's spoken today when it wants, what it wants, and how much it wants within its time MPs. The subsequent application of the Rules of Procedure is easier for me, because nothing here is said about amendments, how much I notice, but the election campaign has started and everything is talked about. We're all aware of that and I pray nicely. Someone will try to say something about the amendment. For example, Gordana Comić, let's try it from her, so you Dejane, then Marko Djurisic, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50686	A brief question, Minister, more remarks. In discussions on our vision of the business of the EPS in 2014 and according to your 2015 data, inadmissible sentences - you could have informed yourself from the media. We are the Messengers of the people, and you are the minister. You owe us answers. The media can write what the MPs want to use or not, but what the EPS 2016 or 2017 will look like, it does not depend on how much it says in the media, it depends on perception, but on our questions and your answers that you owe us much. I don't ask you to answer me or not, I know it's neither your manners nor your style, but simply, when you say something like that, then it's good to remind ourselves that you owe us answers, not that we're informing ourselves from the media what's been remounted to the EPS, what's not being remounted to the EPS, how much is the cost of electricity or not, that Chinese credit has been standing since June, who's asking for what. These aren't the topics for this session. We want to establish public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50687	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dejan Nikolic, and a replica by Željko Sertic. Did you ask him to answer you now? I can't forget you, you're wrong. [[Marko Djurisic, from the scene, and I'm a replica? You forgot me.)]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50688	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. Mr. President, do you think everything was okay with the address of fellow Arsic? You don't think there was anything to warn a colleague of Arsic about? Well, the opposition parties and their leaders were called an elemental disaster. Just a year ago, an elementary accident took a large number of lives, President. Does that mean he called them killers? You don't think you should have reacted and stopped this shameful address by fellow Arsic? Well, he wants to put yellow ribbons around the Democratic Party's hand to recognize us in the field. Just as the Serbian Progressive Party wore markings when it protested, let's say, in Smederjevska Palanca while saving lives from the municipality. They wanted to change power. Please apply Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, Rule 107. Do not separate MPs, that we have fewer rights than the rights of the MPs most of them. I am ashamed today and tonight to be in the same room as my colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50689	Well, you see, now you've said an insult to both Parliament and colleagues. You're getting yourself into what you're complaining about. So you can't say either you or anyone that's embarrassing someone. If he's embarrassed, get out of the O.R., don't be an MP anymore. Please don't do that in parliament. Really, we have to respect each other, we don't have to love each other. We don't even have to respect ourselves, but to respect Parliament. That's what I'd like you to do. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50690	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I'm advertising an article. 103rd and 107th. I think the harshly violated dignity of the National Assembly, given that the previous speaker, as I understood and heard, said that he was ashamed to sit together in parliament with Mr Arsic. I think we're all even here and there's no reason for that kind of insult. With that in mind, no one can humiliate you in life, no one can insult you in life, Mr. Arsic, unless you allow it. We can understand those who do not respect us, but we are bound, for the sake of the citizens, to oppose anyone who does not respect, not only a fellow Arsic, not only this parliamentary club, but also those who do not respect you, who does not respect the opposition and those who do not respect the National Assembly, which some MPs here also call the sanctuary of democracy. I'm not asking you to vote on this. I believe that Mr. Arsic forgave his colleague, but for the sake of the citizens that we know that Mr. Arsic is a broad heart, soft soul, etc., and that he has forgiven such a harsh insult that is addressed not only to him, but to all his colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50691	Thank you. I'm asking Vice President Arsic to come to me and help me run the session. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! Just to tell me, MP, who exactly is the replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Mr Arsic. Mr. Arsic, good. Let me disarm him, let him come up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50692	Thank you, Your Honor. There were words here about how someone increased the price of electricity 600%. When the SNS came to power in 2012, one of the many promises was that the price of electricity would decrease by 20%. To this day, in four years, citizens have experienced that electricity, i.e. the price of electricity, is not less than 20%, but is more than 30%, that it has become a luxury commodity, because it is subject to excise duty, and that through the electricity bill, something called the tax on TV has been charged again. So it's no longer a subscription, now it's a tax. So, another promise has been broken. Please, Mr. Arsic was talking about investing in the Kostolac Termo Power Plant and detachment devices, but I asked what about Obrenovac, what about Tent? What about the $200 million Jake loan that's been standing since June of the month? It's finished all, specifically, the best offer is established, but someone can't sign the contract, so the citizens of the Obrenovac can breathe, that they can live longer. Why are two blocks of the Nicola Tesla Termo Power Plant, one block of six in A and one in B, not built capital remonts? How much is that gonna cost us? That's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50693	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50694	I would like to invite an esteemed colleague to read carefully the White Paper of the Serbian Progressive Party Programme, to also read the exposés of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, and to see that everything we have promised and before the citizens came forward, and before the elections we have achieved even after the elections. On the other hand, I don't know what that TV count was. But, come on, we'll take it under the laps of a respected colleague. But someone who's been pushing citizens for years and charging them 500 dinars for a public service subscription, now suddenly he's got a lot of 150 dinars. So, where's the math? Where's the logic? On the other hand, I would like to invite an esteemed colleague not to use those general terms – someone increased the electricity price 600%. You've raised the electricity price 600%. You increased the electricity price from 2001 to 2012 600%, or just over 60% a year. If you said that by four years, from 2012 to 2016, the electricity price increased by 30%, it means that we increased it by slightly less than 8% a year. And now, you who have increased the price of electricity 60% a year, you have the right to honor someone else. You who are for a fee, or a TV subscription, whatever it was called, for those who earn it, whatever it was called, you who charged the TV subscription three times more, now it doesn't suit you because it's three times cheaper. You who have increased the price of electricity 600%, have the right to speak, which is why the price of electricity increases by 30% in four years. Well, where's the political correctness and logic at all?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50695	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, they put together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50696	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce two things about the amendments that we have submitted to Article 11 concerning founding rights and investment in capital. Dear Minister Sertic, we have submitted the amendment because we believe that the solutions you have proposed are your approach to the debate on this legislative project, not the market, Minister Sertic. Not market. Why was this argument of this amendment important to us? Because you used every opportunity to come to the National Assembly to make your market orientation known in the opening remarks. Government's direction towards a functioning market economy. I've said several times that you've singled out a formula of economy above politics here. Then I wonder and ask you, Mr. Sertice, why don't you stick to your words? Why, instead of the formula – an economy above politics, do you apply the formula – politics above all else? This approach, around this legislative project, is proof of it by Minister Sertic. Another thing I want to say about this legislative project and this amendment. I now hear from citizens, phone rings, like the EPS, the public company around which there were words here. For example, I've been told by a man that there's never been a worse situation in the EPS. He says the repairs haven't been made in two years, even if not in the range of more than 20%. Mr. Sertice, is that correct? Is that true? If you haven't heard, I can repeat Mr. Sertic, is it true that in the EPS, for example, no repairs have been made in the last two years, at least not in excess of 20%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50697	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50698	Thank you, Madam President. I'm calling for her not to be accepted, of course. For what reason? Because actually nothing good, nothing shaped, nothing meaningful, you'll allow, for reasons of eventual adoption we haven't heard. I'm going to skip this trip, the written explanation of the amendment, purely on the basis of goodwill. I hope I don't have to deal with him, I hope, first of all because it would be in the interest of the promoters themselves. On the subject of seriousness in the debate, we have heard verbally that this has been proposed, this amendment has been proposed, for what? Because the minister's appearance in this debate is not appropriate today. Just to remind the amendment promoter that he submitted the amendments long before he heard the minister and anyone else in this debate today, he submitted it long before the debate. So please, this is all just not serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50699	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic. Members of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZS, together submitted the 11th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50700	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers, this and the next member are new to the draft law adopted by the Assembly in 2013, but they are very controversial, first because they open a huge space for corruption and are controversial because they absolutely do not respond to the government's commitment to the market economy, for the story that the market is what needs to be determined and dominated by Serbia's economic life. And Article 11 in the section of which we have sought to delete, leads to the possibility that public enterprises can, with the previous consent of the founders, say they are establishing a company of capital to carry out actions that are not an activity of general interest. So, any company, if this member of the law is adopted, can set up a public enterprise. For any action. So, all the time the law says that public enterprises should deal with matters of general interest and define what the general interest is, we talked about it a lot tonight. And now, here it is introduced in one sentence, it is possible to establish a company of capital to carry out an action that is not an act of general interest. Well, what does that mean? So, where's the market economy? Well, where is it that private capital is the best, most efficient, that the state should withdraw? And now you're predicting the possibility of the state starting businesses, of dealing with anything. Mr. Minister, this cannot remain in the law. And not to mention your written explanation for not accepting this amendment, which he says again, that it is not accepted because there are no reasonable reasons for the proposed amendment. There are reasons mentioned in several sentences. And it's rude for us to read these arguments by the government, because someone made an effort to sit down within less than two days to write amendments to this law and discuss them whenever, well, here and now at 11.00 p.m. I ask you, Minister, to explain the reasons for not accepting this amendment, and I think it will be much more difficult for you and that it is much easier for you to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50701	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50702	I would ask you first not to insult us and not to say that we are rude by writing arguments that we owe and by law, and your amendment is not good enough for us to accept it the way you ask. At the very beginning, as you recall what you said, that the members of 11 and 12 are completely new, which defines completely new in the Law on Public Enterprises. Read article 47 and a member of the 48th Old Law, still valid until this congregation majority adopts it and you will see that we have just more precisely translated the members of 47th and 48th into members of the 11th and 12th of this law and defined the way in which public enterprises function, i.e. the establishment of their daughters, companies. For what reason, why? In order to make it possible economically, on market grounds, to work and thus to have a much better functioning. And it is certainly very clear in these members that consent to the establishment of dependent societies must be given to the founder. So, the founder will be the purpose of certain moves by each public enterprise. And you're talking about the market economy, so it is precisely the possibility that through the various public private partnerships, parts of the business carried out by a particular public enterprise are placed on the market, that private capital enters, that we reduce our budget burden, and that our citizens get a much better and better service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50703	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50704	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, it is good that such an amendment has not been accepted. Because I'm going to give you an example, let's say "Electro Networks of Serbia" or any other public enterprise that has no ability at all to obtain, let's say, equipment from companies that are not in general able to produce a certain amount. Then we'd be in a situation where, for example, certain actions, public enterprises are not able to obtain certain goods at all. That would put certain systems in place. By opening these types of companies, with the consent of the founders, i.e. companies that will work for the needs of the public enterprise, you first reduce the costs of a large one. Secondly, you get the constant functionality of such enterprises. So what you just said is essential to explain. One "Serbian gas" has a lot of dependent companies with help now that, for example, if you adopt such an amendment, you would have to shut down, or let's say some other companies that are dependent on the work of public enterprises, which in a certain way, even though they are engaged in other activities, would have to quit their work completely and the employees would have to fire. Thus, you would, in a certain way, spend much more financial resources to implement such models as the promoter gives, and this is simply not possible in the market economy today. That is why it is precisely the kind of addictive companies that should fully introduce one efficiency in the work of public enterprises. With that, such an amendment should rightly be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50705	Thank you. The 12th amendment in the same text was brought together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, and together by MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50706	Thank you, Madam President. Article 12 says – public enterprises can invest capital in already established capital companies, with the previous consent of the founders. And then in your explanation, Mr Sertic, and in the government's opinion you complain about our argument of the amendment, you explain the sentence "public enterprise can invest capital in already established capital companies with the previous consent of the founders" in the following words – Article 12 states that a public company can invest in already established capital companies, with the previous consent of the founders. It would be like we're writing an amendment, let's say "wipe," and in an explanation, we're going to suggest it because we think it should be deleted or because the amendment needs to be deleted. Then you're unhappy with us, if you can, Mr. Orlic with the Minister, not speak at a time when I don't explain the amendment, and then you're now unhappy with our arguments, and in the explanation that you sent us, you're saying that you're suggesting something because you're suggesting it. I mean, just don't make sure you don't meet what you're doing here with the MPs. We feel that we have quite clearly explained why we feel that the whole law should be deleted. Then, of course, if we feel that the whole law should be deleted, we suggest that each member be deleted. That's not a good enough explanation for you, but it's good enough that, as Mr. Atlagic says, this sucks what you're writing to us here. So, I mean, we just can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50707	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50708	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support my colleague, Aleksandra Jerkov, in the argument of my attitude for the amendment to "be deleted", which Mr Sertic has told us is incomplete, and here on one occasion I want to show that this amendment in the current circumstances is celebular, Mr Sertic. For example, Article 12, which is now spoken of as this - a public company can invest capital in already established capital companies with the previous consent of the founders. Here's to keeping ourselves on one of the cases we mentioned earlier on this EPS. For example, the accounting value of the EPS based on analysis, the analysis sector is 16 billion. When that value decreases by depreciation, Mr. Sertic, that value goes to 11 billion. All related to the content of Article 12. I ask you, then, why in this progressive era do we have a constant speech that the value of EPS is three and a half billion? So based on the analysis of the analysis sector, we get to 11 billion, which is the figure that comes with the depreciation based on depreciation. Why is it so reduced, for example, the value of this company? Here, I'd like, for example, to hear the answer to this question, so if we had, let's say, one argument that was argued. Three and a half billion, that's an example. Three and a half billion, as far as I'm concerned, here's Mr. Martinovic to hear, seeing as he's interested in the debate, it's only worth a tent. Mr. Sertic, isn't it celibate to submit such an amendment under the circumstances in which we have, I mean, a very bad government? Isn't it celibate to withdraw this legislative project when we discuss it in these circumstances, as Mr. Atlagic says, in lame circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50709	First promoter, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50710	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, our amendment is to delete article 12. Now here's the explanation you say doesn't exist. Article 12 provides that a public undertaking may invest capital in already established capital companies with the prior consent of the founders. Since Article 12 does not specify which capital companies are able to invest in capital that is their activity, founder and similar things, nor the transparency criteria of investment, nor the objective of investment. This member carries a high corrupt risk, and we suggest that he be deleted. So, the written explanation, the reasons for our amendment. Of course it offends us when you write that the amendment is not accepted because there are no reasonable reasons for the proposed amendment. I don't know, and the right to tell you, if my earlier discussion has hurt you, the right to tell you, it's not my fault at all. Because it hurts me every time I look at the reasons for the 25 rejected amendments that you've turned down my parliamentary groups. Everyone starts with the same line, as if we didn't do anything, Mr. Minister. I don't think that's right. Once again, this member foresees investing the capital of a public enterprise in already established capital companies, with the previous consent of the founders. Knowing how the government is thinking, as founder, on behalf of the founders of the Republic of Serbia, we are, of course, afraid to invest in the companies of the capital of the godfathers, brothers and others, in order to get out of the minus. A huge space for corruption is left with this. That's what the Anti-Corruption Agency wrote to you in the opinion of this law. This is bad, and it has to be wiped out of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50711	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50712	Gentlemen, public enterprises are enterprises. We ask them as the Government to make a profit or at least to be at a positive zero, that those subsidies for part of the enterprises that we are giving in the next period, because this is done throughout the EU, in most parts of the world, as part of the companies related to rail traffic, etc., to do most effectively, according to the best models. By creating this economic framework, it is quite logical that we should allow the public enterprise to add capital to the company that has already been established, with the consent of the founders, the previous consent. In no other way can this be described in any other words as basic economic logic, except to repeat the sentence as Article 12 reads, since it has only one sentence with a few small points of view. So there's no other way to explain the answer to your proposal to delete. As far as the government's reasoning is concerned, here as minister, I am giving you an additional explanation that your argument, the amendment proposal, is not good enough for us to accept it as valid and propose to the Assembly for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50713	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50714	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, businesses are set up to make profits. So, companies are not set up to do certain work at the expense of the Serbian state and at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens, but to make it through certain obligations due to the general interest of profit rules. These dependent companies should be in the function of public enterprises, their efficiency, their economics, and therefore simply there is no other model than that you normally invest certain capital, invest in such a thing, and thus help public enterprises to raise themselves when it comes to final accounts that there is profit. That's basic economic logic. This is how you develop the market and simply create a more competitive economy. Such an economy can deal with the region, can deal with the EU. And today, tomorrow, and when you want to talk to EU members, become one of their partners or neighbours or within the EU, then they see you completely differently, rather than when you don't have the opportunity to simply have public enterprises that are in constant debt, by constant guarantees, by constant loans and the inability to simply rationalise their business. Therefore, we fully justify that this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50715	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would not have answered my word if one of the proposings hadn't presented the wrong data from 2008 and declared EPS worth 3.5 billion. The EPS's value is now over five billion and it is obvious that a fellow promoter lives in 2008. And speaking of 2008, that's the year when the duchy government of public money in the general interest opened up the works on Kamenica 2. They were due to be completed by 2010, Kamenica 2 was supposed to cost 18 billion, or 18m euros, and in the meantime it is not yet completed, so in 2016, six years have broken deadlines, and the value of the works still in unfinished Kamenica 2 has reached 33m euros. So almost twice what was promised to be spent in 2008. I believe, for these sentimental reasons, that a fellow promoter took advantage of the 2008 data, instead of the data that is new and that indicate that EPS has far more value than he mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50717	Here you go. Ambassador Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50718	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister and you and your colleague were speaking here says: companies are being set up to make a profit. You keep repeating that sentence. And, according to the law, this article is prescribed from the old law, says – the objectives of establishing a public enterprise; because it is the subject of this law. So - public enterprises are established and operated for their sake; then it says – ensuring the continued performance of the general interest and regularly meeting the needs of the users of products and services, developing the improvement of the performance of the general interest. Under three -- ensuring the technical and technological and economic unity of the system and the consistency of its development. Well, under four -- getting a profit. So many other things public enterprises have as a goal for which they are founded, not making profits. And you're defending this member to stay so that public companies can invest in society, let's not know what they're going to do, there's nothing limited, and you're justifying it by making a profit. Well, here I don't know, say, bookies, they're profitable, because that means public firms are going to go into bookies and you're going to justify it by making a profit? Was this member used when Serbia, or the Elektro Network of Serbia, bought 10% of Montenegro's Electricity Network at the end of last year? (Zoran Babic, from the place: Well? So, did she make a profit at the job? She paid 95 cents for the stock, the next day that action was worth 84 cents. We lost one and a half million euros in one day at the job. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: And today? ) Today they are just as much, because they are 84 all the time, only Serbia paid 95. What were the reasons for the job? Where's the general interest? Where is the interest in ensuring the continued performance of the general interest in this business, or was it because of the interest of someone private, perhaps? Because profit wasn't, we saw it wasn't, because stocks were worth the day after the same thing the day before that transaction, only that day they were worth 10, 11% more. What was the interest in that job? Because there was no general interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50719	The names above the members and the 13th Amendments in the same text were submitted jointly by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50720	Thank you. Article 13. – Public enterprises for their obligations corresponds to their entire assets. Do you remember Mr Sertic, do you remember a dear fellow session at which in the same day as the public debt of Serbia, we took over the debt of the company "Srbigas" and gave "Srbigas" the guarantee to re-indebt the same amount, how much we took over the debt of the company to all Serbian citizens? Do they remember, I don't know if you remember, the citizens certainly remember the sessions where this National Assembly decided to cut their salaries and take their pensions, because at the same session, we decided to give guarantees to "Serbiagas" to be in debt for 300 million dollars and we took over the debts of "Er Serbia" to the Republic of Serbia, or its citizens worth 200m euros. It all happened at the same session and now you're coming here and telling us that public enterprises for their obligations correspond to their entire assets. We see that certain public enterprises for their obligations correspond to the property of citizens, with salaries and pensions, reduced salaries and pensions of those citizens, and these public enterprises do not behave as if they are crises. At that time, we had the opportunity to hear the same time that we turned the debt of "Srbigas" into the debt of all citizens, that the company had shared bonuses of 500 euros for its employees, that the company had bought four jeeps, a 17 million dinar Range Rover. And what did we do on that occasion? We took over the company's debts on the debts of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and gave permission, which is not to say, that they still owe a little bit because they obviously need money all the time, and this member of the law does not apply to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50721	The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50722	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are now calling me, supporting the argument on the issues I'm asking here, and then I'm going to continue at this pace as we have begun. Dear Mr Sertić, in Article 13, for which we have proposed to delete, writes – The Public Enterprise responds to its obligations with its entire assets. How do we know what this property is, Minister Sertic, when we see, in the EPS case, we have a case that one MP says is worth five billion, that one authorised representative of EPS says three and a half billion three months ago at an event where energy was discussed. When one minister in this government says three and a half billion, and based on the analysis of the EPS evaluation sector is 11 billion. Mr. Sertic, are you agreeable, honored gentlemen, that in all this data no man can manage, then what is true. Who should we trust? So are they worth the analysis in the Public Business Analysis Sector or not? Is it worth the word of a minister who assesses it in a whim or based on an analysis or is it not worth it? So, what's it worth, Minister Sertice? The second thing, the citizens have now called me the same thing, there is a question about this same member, he says – Since it is the reconciliation of public enterprise obligations, Minister Sertic, a large number of citizens are asking when to start paying back the workers of social enterprises, and based on court rulings? Minister Sertic, that is a very important question. For what? Because of one principle that needs to be a presumption of reform, a presumption of market orientation, any man, any government that wants to say to itself that it is market-oriented, which is the principle of rule of law. Not only that man, but I mean every man who sits in the National Assembly, in our sanctuary of political life, not just democracy, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50723	Thank you. Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50724	Honorable MPs, when grandmothers and frogs mix, then I don't know how to answer the question. I can't explain simply, not just more economic principles of functioning of the company, some and the facts that appear in public when someone says they extract data from 2008, so compare it to the 2013 data, so they take it away from 2007 and you don't know what you got. I'll ask you all together, you can probably help me answer, who made $330 million in debt to the former JAT company? WHO left the workers without pay for the past 13-14 years, telling them stories about privatisation, how will one day come and solve all their problems? Who gave over 500m euros over a six-year period to these restructuring firms, and none were restructured? Who made all those debts? How did we get over 650m euros in debt, almost 2.2% of our GDP in 2014, with the collected debts of public enterprises from the previous period? Well, today we have to pay back, both through public debt and through the real payment of all the interest we had in the previous period, which were taken at 6, 7, 8% on an annual basis, and we have to return it today and reduce it to 0.5% of our GDP by 2018 of all public enterprises' total debt, so that we can return everything, provide funds for investment and have at that level, so that we can have macroeconomic indicators to have at the best possible level, to attract investors, so that we can enable our domestic businesses to develop and work. I ask you - who made these debts, and we have to pay them back today, in difficult economic conditions both throughout the world and across the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50725	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment's proposal cited the debts of "Srbigas". I hope that one day the proposings of this amendment will forgive us the actions, or misdemeanors that they have committed themselves. "Srbigas", as far as I know, the minister is here, made a $120m profit in 2015, if I am not mistaken. The debts paid by the state, with the regular financing of all current obligations, purchases, etc., with the state having to pay for what the proposer was talking about, and these are old debts incurred during the rule of the party of the former regime, when it went away, when they took as much as they wanted, when they took more than the citizens had, when, as our people say, they took a fist and a hat, when the ruling coalition was one company that didn't care about anything else, which they didn't think about at all, but put their own wallet, their wallet and their pocket and basically emptied the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by having to pay their debts in the next period. I don't understand anymore. They're not afraid of God. People aren't ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50727	Thank you. In the same text, Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 14th amendment. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50728	Mr. Sertich, what about this attitude 3? He says – the founder is obliged to ensure that the work of general interest is carried out in continuity. The founder may not establish another public undertaking or capital company referred to in Article 3(1) and (2) of this Act to carry out the same activity of general interest, except in the case of the implementation of public-private partnership projects, within the meaning of a law governing public-private partnership and concessions. Then, Section 3. – provision of Article 2... Mr. Orlic, please make an appointment with the minister, so talk to him at some point outside the session and outside my interpretation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50729	Respect your colleagues. Why are you doing this, Miss Jerkov?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50730	And, Article 3. - the provision of Article 2 does not apply to the city and the city of Belgrade. What city, Mr. Sertice, is this town? What does not apply to the city, to every city, to a certain city, since the city of Belgrade is later set apart? What's this about? It's a little weird, you'll admit it. There's no telling what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50731	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. (Goran Ciric, from the post: I applied for my amendment to Article 14. I checked in on time this time. Your amendment is after a few amendments, but okay, it's fine. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50732	In the debate, I explained in principle what was very important about solving the problem of abuse most often at the place and what was happening to us in the previous period, what we saw, and so we wrote in Article 14. So very often, local self-government led the company to bankruptcy, a public enterprise founded by local self-government. With various machinations, excessive employment, irrational policy, primarily economic, money pumping from the budget every year of these companies, you do one task at the beginning of the company’s task to realize business, bring it to bankruptcy or almost shut down, then transfer all workers to a newly formed company, which performs an identical activity and just continue to work, and transfer this minus from the existing company to the Republic, i.e. to the economy, or to all citizens. Just to prevent the possibility of a number of abuses observed during the previous period, we have put Article 14 to read so that no one can start a company at a place with the same performance, with the same mode of work, unless it is a public-private partnership and the whole business has to be defined by the rules laid down in the Public-private Partnership Act. It's very simple and very clear, and I don't know what's not so understandable here, because I've already explained it, and I'm going to make an effort for every amendment that you propose and for every member of the law to give you this simple explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50733	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50734	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I find your explanation of this member very interesting, because you are now saying that in practice it has proved that some public enterprises have made debts, and then the money has been pumped out, the gasses, etc. And now you want to stop this member of the law. Now, since responsibility in the management of public enterprises is always in the law, so I can read now the applicable law, which this majority passed two and a half years ago, how is it possible that this was happening without anyone answering? Then what's the guarantee that it won't happen now? You're saying something's going on somewhere. There are probably cases like this, of course, I can't say there isn't, but who was responsible for it? By the law that applies, which speaks of who is responsible for the business of public enterprises, these norms are the same in the applicable law and in the one we adopt today, there are no major changes, unless you think, you're nodding now, there's a change. What, there's a change, there won't be an executive board, now there won't be? Was that the reason for destroying companies? No, of course not. Mr. Minister, that story, we don't believe you, because you haven't set any examples that some of the people who did this were responding. Then where is our confidence that this law will not happen again?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50735	Thank you. The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50736	Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Sertic, the honored guest from the ministry and the esteemed Mr. Becic, I would like to support my colleagues, Mrs. Jerkov and Mr. Djurisic, in an argument of this attitude over the amendment to this article of the law. I must say one thing and gentlemen to the MPs of the ruling parties. I am now convinced by Minister Sertic here that we were right when we submitted the amendment "expect" to Article 14. Mr Sertić, I must tell you now, you have now explained to us, based on the content of Article 2, Article 14, to prevent the abuses that have been recorded, etc., and then our dilemma was how then, by the attitude of the 3rd member, to be exempt from all these measures, as far as we understand, all the cities, and the city of Belgrade? For example, some citizen who now listens to us and wants to follow some argument and he says – you see, we are dealing with a minister, who wants to prevent abuses here, there, in local self-government units, and then we read that all of these are not valid in all cities in the Republic of Serbia and in the city of Belgrade. I then think that one of our citizens, a reasonable man, by the logic of things, Minister Sertic, concludes this way, so all of these abuses that we have seen, we have seen, will continue to be applied in all cities, especially in the city of Belgrade. I think the way you argued really contributes to the argument for our position and that you should have accepted our amendment. With one sentence - that the amendment is accepted for reasons of integrity and purpose in terms of direction towards general good, or achievement of public interest, respected gentlemen and Mr Sertic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50737	Thank you. The word is Mr. Sertic, the replica. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50738	My dear MP, you are precisely your proposal to delete this article 14 from leaving the possibility of further abuse, further corruption and all that has been done in the previous period. Is that your wish? (Vladimir Pavićevic, from place: Item 3.) I don't understand that. Article 3 You didn't write that only attitude 3 is deleted. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Everyone. ) You wrote everything to delete, and attitude 3 speaks of cities that have a very specific position and we did not give the city's municipalities the right to set up their public utility companies at their discretion, but the city is responsible for them so that we would control the city's municipalities, and we gave the possibility that cities could establish equal activity in different municipalities, if there is an economic justification. The city answers to the Republic for something like that. I don't see what it is your need to ask your entire amendment to delete a complete article 14 in which we have made it very clear that we intend to prevent the abuses that took place in many years before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50739	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50740	I thank you, Mr. Becic, and first I have one suggestion for you. I ask you to introduce several more phone lines to the applicant of the amendment, because so many citizens are calling the citizens of the amendment's proposing and such support gives him that I don't know how he's reading the reasons for the amendment, and he's talking about the amendments, and he's answering the phone. I'm carefully looking at the amendment promoter, but believe me, I've seen from all this support that he answered the phone once, and we're certainly at almost five hours of debate, so some of the insincere things here have been said. On the other hand, Mr. Sertic, I will support the facts of what you said and what you want to prevent from forming public enterprises. It's not about public enterprises, but it's about public funds. These funds manage and allocate funds to the citizens of Vojvodina. When, for example, the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, which has been working since 2006, I see that someone is having a lot of fun again, you know, when these funds, which have been working since 2006, when the funds are exhausted, in an extremely illegal, non-transparent way, suddenly this Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, by decision of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, is renamed to the Capital Investments Authority. The allocation of funds, and I'm going to talk about it, remains extremely non-transparent, extremely burazerical and to the detriment, of course, of all citizens. But if it were the only example, it wasn't Mr. Sertic. There is also the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina, which worked between 2002 and 2012, and then when all the money was spent, then this fund was renamed the Vojvodina Development Fund. You know, change the name, change the party's name, change whatever hair you change, but what you do and what you do, it can't be forgotten, so. This number of funds with similar purposes was obviously created to create the most favourable environment in which illegal actions are possible and controls reduced to a minimum. The projects financed by these funds were not a possible debate in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as most DS MPs prevented discussion and even insight into the details of financial arrangements. So much for Bojan Pitiæ's work. The report on the work of the AP Vojvodina Development Fund has been published on a special site, but only with ratty data that 5,391 credit users are placed slightly more than 253m euros. There are no data for which concrete projects and what the results are. The degree of payment of the claim by 2011 was 75%, but there was no record of who had not returned the loans. It is also interesting that in the 2011 pre-election campaign, in the same year that the DS government sent out the IMF, because they did not want any control over the spending of the funds of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the rate of collection with those 75% dropped rapidly, but there is still no record of who remained in debt to the fund, however it was called, because these funds control the money of all citizens. It can only be assumed that they were favourites of the province's regime and sponsors of the DS election campaign for the 2012 elections. The AP Vojvodina Development Fund was shut down in half of 2013, and among the last transactions was the payment of 1.5m euros to Zagreb's Tesla Bank and 200m to acquire ownership in the Vojvodine Development Bank, and we all know very well what fate the Tesla Bank had as well as the Vojvodine Development Bank. Nobody mentions him anymore. They changed their name and no one mentioned it anymore, but his successor is the Development Fund, which mostly vegetates, because it's basically just a mask for the former fund. The regional government obviously believes that a similar situation will occur with the Capital Investment Fund, which has become the Capital Investment Authority. There are strong reasons to suspect that the Capital Investment Fund is deeply contaminated by corruption, especially since its operation was covered in darkness, by a cabinet in Banovina, and that is the cabinet in which Bojan Pajtic rarely stops by, but when the funding schedule from these funds comes. So far, cases of corruption and crime have obviously been discovered only the tip of the iceberg, and the most famous among them is "Hatterland", "Kamenica Two" and "Krisan". The public prosecutor's office, in order to make it clear to all people what the "Krisan" affair was in Pančevo, ordered an investigation against the president of the municipality of Kovacica Miroslav Krisan because of a reasonable suspicion that he had misused the official position, because without public procurement being carried out in 2008, he concluded a contract with the company "Vojvodina Put" from Pančev to perform street works in the settlements of the municipality of Kovačica by 320 million dinars, which is a 25% higher amount compared to market prices. Thus, according to the prosecution, the value of the job increased by 80 million dinars. Regardless of such increased prices, regardless of the non-implemented procurement procedure, the Capital Investment Fund paid the bill and thus damaged itself by 80 million dinars. I remind you that the chairman of the Management Board of the Capital Investment Fund is Bojan Pajtic. One job for 80 million dinars. Therefore, Mr Sertic, anything you wanted to prevent from adopting a new law, I hope, already, whether tonight or tomorrow, you want to prevent it from ever and anywhere, as Bojan Pajtic and DS do, from wasting the money of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50741	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50742	Ladies and gentlemen, I can't say that it was quite a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I am now advertising Article 1 because during Mr Babic's speech Professor Atlagic kept shouting aw, au. It's a cry in pain, gentlemen. I think it's okay to take a break, Mr. Becic, if there's anything wrong with Mr. Atlagic. If it's all right, then... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50743	Mr. Pavicevic, this thing between you, as professor and Mr. Atlagic, as professor, this secret relationship, leave it out of the assembly and out of this room. Please, that love that's between the professors, leave it out of this room, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50744	I want every good thing to Professor Atlagic and you, I suggest you take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50745	Because I can see that you can't answer any of the amendments without mentioning Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50746	Just to make sure everything's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50747	On the other hand, he's very happy to suit you, so please leave it there for college.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50748	Just to make sure everything's okay, if it's okay to keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50749	Be assured all MPs are the norms for tonight's debate, but according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50750	Okay, so, uh, it's no pain at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50751	I only hear it from you, Mr. Pavicevic. But I'd say when you mention that Mr. Atlagic, that such a crime that was in the previous period is clearly shocking, so I think that's the reason. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50752	Thank you. By following how you apply the Rules of Procedure regarding the obligation to speak about the agenda, let me ask you if I can talk about Alexander Vukic, since I know everything and while he was a radical now, or can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50753	Please, Mrs. Comic. At least I expect you to respect the Rules of Procedure and talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50754	That's why I'm asking, because I'm sitting in the O.R. while you're running the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50755	This was addressed to Mr Pavic, who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure and misused the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50756	No, no. I'm asking because I see you running a session, so I see you can say anything, so I ask, if you say you can't, I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50757	You shouldn't, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50758	I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50759	Thank you. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac, Vesna Martinović, and also the peoples of Parliament Marko Đurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50760	Mr. Minister, since you have just regretted that in the amendment of both Miss Jerkov and Mr. Pavicevic, there is no proposal to delete only Article 3 but to propose to delete the whole member, in fact the position of the 3rd member we are talking about, here is now an opportunity for you to adopt our amendment, because it is our amendment that deletes Article 3. As absurd as this article 14 is, we can all look at it together, I'll read it, I think it's important that each of the Members hear this. The first position, the founder, is required to ensure that activity of general interest is carried out in continuity. That's okay. Second, the founder may not establish another public undertaking or capital company referred to in point 1.2 of Article 3 of this Act to carry out the same activity of general interest except in the case of the implementation of public private partnership projects within the meaning of a law governing public private partnership and concessions. You boasted of this other attitude because you are fighting corruption in public utility companies at the local level. You said it was a terrible condition. I agree that there is a terrible state of affairs in public utility systems throughout Serbia's territory, but you have been responsible for these people for four years. In 90% of municipalities and cities, this current coalition has local authority. I don't know who you're complaining about. To people who run cities and municipalities and who have delegated and elected directors of public utility systems. That's one thing. But what's absurd about this law and this article. You say – the provision of the 2nd article does not apply to the city and the City of Belgrade. This means all cities in Serbia and the City of Belgrade, with 80% of Serbia living in these cities and in Belgrade, at least. You, exempt 80% of citizens from a member in whom you define a proud position 2. where it is said that we, based on item 2, prevent inefficient work of public utility systems at local level, and then exclude 80% and say – well, then this 80% can do as they please. And, that's absurdd by this attitude. Delete it, accept our amendment, if we can analyze this article logically, where you say the provision of Article 2 does not apply to the city and the City of Belgrade. Double negative. We would then have read, paragraph 2 so that the founder may, since the founder is a negative, establish a second public enterprise or a company of capital of this law to carry out the same activity of general interest including, since in the original, it says except, since the origin is negative, including in the case of the realisation of public private partnership projects within the meaning of the law governing public partnership and concessions. So to establish parallel systems for public utility companies that will make their own competition. And here is the question—and why all this? Why bet 3? Whether to justify the project "Belgrade on Water", to put it back on, or try to put as a public interest, open the pub, and our debate in the Assembly, where we declare public interest a commercial contract that we voted on, so that the land is expropriated in order to implement a commercial contract. You have a chance, here's a chance. You just said no one has given the amendment so that only item 3 is deleted in this article. You adopt this amendment, and I think we're going to seriously resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50761	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50762	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia and Nišlja who in these small hours follow this session transfer, it is normal that the assembly majority will refuse all our amendments, because the old rule is that what comes from the government for the general majority is absolutely true. Although there are exceptions to the honorable exceptions when the prime minister says that, let's say, national awards should remain, then, behold, wonders change in 24 hours the speeches of the same speakers. But fortunately, Mr. Minister, this member, this law will not come to life. The election's going very fast, so this is going to change...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50763	Mr. Bradiche, would you like some change?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50764	I'll be right there. So what my esteemed colleague Goran Ciric was saying, I'm going to show you Mr. Minister plastic. In Nis there is a JKP "Mediana", the town of Nis and eight surrounding municipalities for the sake of being a regional dump formed "The Low Region". So it's called a company that will deal with the taking out of these eight municipalities and the City of Nis with its five municipalities and deposit at the regional dump. There's a tender in place, no one's answered, it's gone. The concession is 25 years old where the price of a ton of garbage is going to be 40 euros on what I have. Now the "median" involved in this work, taking out garbage, has 900 workers, cost 10 per tonne. What you suggest will cost the citizens of Nisa 40 euros per tonne of garbage. Just one more thing to say to the citizens of Nis who will vote for this law, through your representatives here, the SNS and the coalition that will raise their hands and vote for this member, that there are judicial enforcers, that municipal services must be paid, had, had none. I speak on behalf of the citizens of Nis where 34 thousand Nish citizens in the city itself do not work and cannot pay these 40 euros per tonne. This law, Mr. Sertić, is very bad, very bad, because on the one hand you speak of defending interest, and on the other hand you directly destroy the economy of our citizens, especially under Sava and Danube. It's not Serbia in Belgrade. You're going to tell me that the Public Communal Company "Median" should have competition and let's hypothetically establish that we're also exempting garbage from the "Median" work. There's street editing, greenery, etc. It's this program funding yearly. Yes, but the city of Nis led by your presidents, your party owes that company 500 million for urban cleanliness, street cleaning and parks and greenery. And we're back in a vicious circle.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50765	Dr. Bradich, can I get you a little change?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50766	I'm talking about an amendment that will damage the citizens of Nis, probably other cities. I ask MPs outside Belgrade to consider these members and the prices of utility services your fellow citizens will pay. Think about it because what we're voting on right now is not funny, it's very sad, because you're voting on behalf of citizens not on your own behalf. Consider how much this will cost citizens of Serbia, citizens who have no job and who have burned to a minimum existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50767	I could read the amendment where everything you've said has nothing to do with this amendment, but no problem. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50768	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr Sertic, I would really like you to respond that the citizens who are following this transfer, as well as the MPs who believe that article 14 is scandalous for several reasons, first of all that you support the concept, a concept that is not why elections in Belgrade are being discussed today, a concept where "Belgrade on Water" and a public interest is considered a pub, a shopping mall and a hotel. Because of this concept of SNS that stood behind you and who chose you as minister, he must not or must not call elections in the capital and for this reason I believe that it is necessary to delete Article 14...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50769	Mr. Bozovic, fear is somewhere else. Would you like some change, Mr. Bozovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50770	What makes you think that the interest of the Republic of Serbia is that this part relating to the City of Belgrade and other cities stands in this form in which it stands? Where's the public company here and where's the public interest here? Here, you tell me as the minister who came after Vujovic, as you said yourself, clean up that mess that you found when you came to your ministry. That's what you said yourself. Now I don't know if it's a mess from Mr. Vujovic, is it from the gentleman who was before him, is it from Mr. Dinkic, is he, must you agree with one another? But what you are proposing now to Article 14 is exclusively to support the concept where the city of Belgrade gives up billions of euros in the value of the land it gives to the investor "Belgrade on water", so-called and by 2.5 billion euros in additional costs to free up the entire area there and to remove cells and railway corridors. So please answer this question. Now you're saying it has nothing to do with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50771	Mr Bozovicu, how can the minister respond when what you say has nothing to do with the amendment that has been submitted?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50772	Well, if you repeat it so it has nothing to do with the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50773	This has to do with some destinations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50774	Here, Mr. Sertic remains silent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50775	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50776	Well, it's not hard for me to repeat for what time the aim of the Serbian government was when it proposed this amendment, which is to prevent abuse, especially at a local, local self-government, and we didn't look at where it was done by the parties, but we looked through the system law to improve existing solutions to prevent anyone from making any kind of problem in the future, and you'll see in the next points and in the members of this law that we've provided for both serious penalties for both directors and other managers within the public enterprises themselves. There's been a lot of comments here, and I'm just gonna go through the most important points like this. First of all, this is no obligation for a public firm to give a private or any business to do. It only gives the possibility that if he has an interest, if he sets up a competition and according to the legal procedure, he realizes the job to the end, and above all, if the founder comes to the interest of economic and financial that he's better at doing a part of the work through a public-private partnership, then he can do it, not have to do it. If someone did anything outside the law, then you have to report it, go to the police, the prosecution, and file a case against whoever did it. I don't understand what this member of the law has to do with "Belgrade on Water". "Belgrade on Water" has its own law. This assembly adopted him, and I especially don't see what Article 14. Law on public enterprises with elections in Belgrade. When you explain it to me, I might be able to give you a better explanation. Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50777	Thank you. The word has a People's MP... There's a order for Mr. Bozovic. You can pick up after the amendment. Your parliamentary group has little time left, but before that, there are MPs who have called earlier. Mr. Risticevic should now, but before that, Mr. Ciric, the applicant for the amendment, must. Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50778	Mr. Minister, according to the amendment, you have not given us an answer to the first call that you will accept this amendment if there is a proposal to delete Item 3 where this possibility will not be abolished with this idea. You didn't say that? I think you said that to Mr. Pavicevic when he represented his amendment. Since your key argument was – with attitude 2 in this article you are standardizing something and you are boasting that this will prevent abuses, at this point possible abuses in public utility systems at local level, and then by attitude 3 you are devising an entire member because you are excluding 80% of Serbia, the number of citizens, the number of cities plus the City of Belgrade when you add up the population is 80% of the people you exempt from this norm. It really doesn't make any sense to me, and I think it's logical that you accept this amendment, in which you'll rule out attitude 3 because it's both essential and logically unsustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50779	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50780	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm afraid that the parties of the former regime have a very ugly practice and that they're afraid that everything they've done so as not to be done by someone else who's replaced them with power. There's no reason for that kind of fear. We're not gonna do that anyway. As far as this member is concerned, everything is clear. The first point is about continuity, that the founder must make sure that public enterprises are doing business of general interest in continuity because of the citizens themselves, that they cannot start the same companies unless it is a public-private partnership. In such a situation, the best way to control a public enterprise is through it and the third thing, that it does not apply to cities since they have more municipalities and because of overlapping certain business than the general interest, the city has been declared. I didn't know 80% of the population lived in cities. I believe that's less than half. I don't believe he lives more than 2.5 million, but let's let him have more writing than I do, better knowledge of mathematics and put 80% in Serbia's territory. It is that our villages have been released during the rule of the former regime's party, it is that small settlements have disappeared, even small cities have almost disappeared. The economy that was carrying it is gone. The industry disappeared in large cities, which supported the city's population and could pay public services. I believe for those reasons they come up with the wrong bill. I think that apart from what they think we're going to do, what they're doing is they're in a big mistake and they said here that we're afraid to discuss the elections in Belgrade. I heard from the amendment promoters – we are afraid to discuss elections in Belgrade. As far as I know, the elections will be on the territory of all municipalities in Belgrade, so there will already be some local elections. As for the elections for the city of Belgrade, there is no concern. So, they should be afraid, we shouldn't, because after the last aggression on Maldives, I think more members of the former regime have in the Maldives and that their chances of winning the elections bigger in the Maldives, because there are only 341,000 inhabitants there. These, for God's sake, there's more in the Maldives sometimes. So I appreciate that their chances of winning the Maldives are greater than the chances of winning Belgrade, Vojvodina, any municipality, and especially not in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50781	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50782	Mr. Minister, we didn't understand each other. This law legalizes everything you said should be reported as a felony. That's why I'm asking for these members to be deleted, so that this won't be allowed and that it can't go on forever, depending on the concessionaries, raise the price of monopoly service. You accept that and that's your policy. I'm just telling the citizens to watch and listen to what your policy is and what's waiting for them from that policy of yours, and there's an alternative. That's the essence of my story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50783	Thank you. Mr Bozovicu, you have no more time for the parliamentary group. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How come I don't have one? ( ) Expensive. Mr. Ziric spent what was left. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50784	Dear chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, we are surprised at the cost of simply not developing Belgrade as all modern metropolis. Especially those who in five municipalities currently possess democratic authority and companies that exist as public utility within these municipalities. But you know how, they're in these municipalities where there's no public utility, because they're mostly central city municipalities. And for those municipalities on the edge of Belgrade, they just don't care. Since by 2012, they had had opportunities to manage these public utility companies, they had left large debts, which, of course, had to be taken over as local self-government and the city of Belgrade, and given this situation, it is quite logical that you gave such a solution. Because, financially and essentially, the city of Belgrade, as the primary unit of local self-government, practically manages finance and as the second-degree body of 17 municipalities within the Belgrade city corresponds to the Republic and to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, such a solution is absolutely logical, that local self-government, or urban municipalities can no longer be the founders of public utility companies. The situation found here says that 691 companies belong to local self-government, that 457 companies belong to public utility companies. We have defined 12 public utility companies in the city of Belgrade, and everything else, over 12 more, falls under the authority of the city's municipalities. It's just not normal. If you manage these companies, and city municipalities are not able to manage financially in an adequate way, since they depend on the city of Belgrade, it is absolutely logical then such a solution is simple for the Ministry of Finance, because in the future they will have the opportunity to simply control investment-related contracts, when we talk about investments, but also what concerns contract-making based on a public private partnership. And another thing, you have bad examples of corporate governance when it comes to Kragujevac. The Serbian Progressive Party has assumed power for almost two years. What she found, say, in the waste management sector, is 1,000 people who are employed, debts over a few billion dinars. So, completely pre-named enterprises that have funded themselves from the budget of all Kragujevci citizens. The budgets were over-indebted, they didn't have the opportunity to function at all. After this takeover, it is the Republic that must essentially ensure the functioning of local self-government and therefore public utility companies themselves. So it is perfectly logical that in this way in the future you provide an opportunity for the city of Belgrade to resolve the issue and management of waste and waste water management, but also some major strategic projects that are expecting us. Of course, the opening of some cafes does not involve the formation of public utility companies. This represents disabling the public in an extremely unskilled way. So I thank you for this very solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50785	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Would you like a word, Mr. Pavicevic? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50786	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted, as we have announced to Minister Sertic in the principle of discussion, amendments and to Article 15 of this proposal of the Law on Public Enterprises, which defines the bodies of the public enterprise. In Article 15, the authorities of the public undertaking are the Supervisory Board and the Director. We were answered by Minister Sertic that he could not accept this amendment, as he believes we did not well explain the amendment to this member. Since our amendment is being deleted, then I have to ask Minister Sertic - does this mean that Minister Sertic is in direct conflict, when it comes to access, with his colleague Tasovac, who is in a similar situation, and that can be confirmed by Mr Becic, accepted, Mr Sertic, our two amendments are "expunged"? He did not come, so he said - this is not complete, or - this is not meaningful, or – you did not explain, but said - the amendments "wipe" are accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of your amendment. Mr. Sertic, not only with Mr. Tasovac, but also with the Governor of the National Bank, Mrs. Tabakovic, who also accepted two of our amendments "is deleted", with the following explanation - to accept them for reasons declared in the explanation for the amendments submitted. I, Minister Sertić, on this amendment, ask you one simple thing - did you, in conflict of opinion, approach your colleagues in the government, for example, with Minister Tasovac and your party colleague, even though she has now frozen her position because of what she is doing, Mrs Tabakovic? Here, you tell me, what do you think, are you or aren't you? So, what is the course of this government, when different ministers have so many different approaches, confusions, etc? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50787	How do you explain the amendment without saying a word about the amendment? The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50788	Your Honor, you've just had luck with Mr. Tasovec and the governor. You don't have it with me. I can't accept in this law any of your proposals for an amendment in which something, as you have suggested and as it says, is deleted, because we don't have any cellity and purpose to get any better solution that would allow us all to live better and have much better public enterprises than we've had so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50789	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50790	Mr. Becic, you are already reminding several times of a respected colleague of Pavicevic to spend his time explaining the amendments without having spoken of the amendment itself, and I fully agree with that, but your obligation, Mr. Chairman, is to take away his word when he does not speak of the amendment, because that is how you violate the Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, the amendment promoter usually has some very strange mathematics. So, comparisons -- so many amendments accepted, so much support in the electoral body. Come on, I'll take it in that style like my dear colleague said--what's my grandmother's pleasure, that's what happened to her. But now to accept the thesis – you know, one of the ministers has accepted the amendment "to be deleted", and you, Mr. Setiæ, are in conflict with someone there who has accepted the amendment "to be deleted" because you do not now "be deleted" to this article. I mean, that's the logic only the amendment promoter can understand, really. Here, I've made an effort, I'm probably not smart enough, how to "wipe," the amendment "be deleted" to different laws must be accepted everywhere, otherwise the ministers are in conflict. So this is the logic that's amazing. Article 15, and now I'm going to talk about the amendment, it can't change at all, it can't be erased at all. Because Article 15 introduces order in the management of public enterprises. That's what the amendment promoter doesn't understand, order. Instead of two-home management of public enterprises. Instead of many supervisory and management boards with an infinite number of members, with compensation that was like in these capital investment funds, Bojan Pajtic. It wasn't known, it was just a matter of birth or party membership. Now there's order. Now, instead of two two-home management companies, all we have are boards of directors. The following members shall also define the number of members of the Supervisory Board. So for public enterprises that founded the Republic, that number five, and not like in the previous regime, was just needed to be an odd number, seven, nine, up to 21. How many people did it take to put them somewhere and make them up to some fat reward? There, they were just thinking that way. Now you know exactly. For public undertakings established by autonomous province or local self-government units, the number of members of the Supervisory Board is three. It is known exactly how many independents, how many in front of employees, and how many units of local self-government the Republic or the Autonomous province give. Therefore, Mr. Sertic, don't even bother to understand this logic, because there is no mechanism that can understand such logic. The amendment must not be accepted because it would return Serbia, it would return public enterprises to total anarchy, to the total "drp" system as someone said. Compensations that do not know what they are or what they are, the number of members of the Supervisory and Management Boards was disastrously large, and thus the large funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were poured into the party pockets of officials or close to the former regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50791	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The answer to these two questions, you first see for yourself that the MP is incorrigible. Secondly, when it comes to logic, you might want to check it out with the students who failed the exam with the distinguished professor. Thank you. Mrs. Jerkov, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50792	Thank you, sir. I have a question, actually, about article 106. Since Mr Babić complains about MP Pavicevic not talking about the agenda, and you yourself have complained about the MP not to talk about the agenda, so just so we know about the future work, is the agenda only when it comes to Bojan Pajtic and the government of Vojvodina, when reading the party's SNS informer, because if we were in that part of the session, we would have something to read too. I mean, just don't think we don't. So, I don't know, if we're in that part of the session, you tell me. If it's the agenda only when you talk about it and you claim it's some real data, it's data from an SNS informant that... (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Which member? Article 106, Mr. Granny, listen up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50793	Please, Miss Jerkov, don't like it the way you behave.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50794	Is it only the agenda when it comes to the government of Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic? Answer me that question, if it is then that we know, we also have to talk about the government of Vojvodina...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50795	Miss Jerkov, you asked me to answer. Understandably, you must report as Mr. Pitiæ's advisor. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I am not Mr. Pitiæ's adviser, you are Mr. Babic's advisor. I say it is understandable for you to come forward and defend Mr. Pitiæ, your Prime Minister. Every time, every time, over and over again. I can't stop the MPs from mentioning the President of the District Government, so if you ask me to keep the name and last name of the President of the District Government of Mr. Pajtic from being mentioned in this great hall of the National Assembly, unfortunately I can't help you here. It's up to you to just call every time and try to challenge the arguments you put on him. I can't tell you anything else. Mr. Pavicevic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50796	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, you have just injured Article 32. The Rules of Procedure which define the actions of the Vice President of the National Assembly, especially those who chair the sitting. How? By not first allowing one lady, our colleague, the MP to finish her reasoning and not only that, but then, even like this, you called out to her, with a raised tone, you addressed Mrs. Jerkov. During today's session, you yourself had more direction towards the messengers of the people to speak a little more quietly. Here, you told me too, you said I was incorrigible. I don't think it was all the same that I was correct, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, according to your standards. But when he said to a lady, a MP, a colleague, I thought it was my turn to draw your attention here to treat your colleagues a little more appropriately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50797	You're wrong, Mr. Pavicevic, I'm very gentle when it comes to a colleague, especially every lady. I tried to give an answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50798	Then a reminder...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50799	Mr. Pavicevic, it's rude, distinguished professors that in such a way, each of the MPs when they complete the exposure turn off the microphone, you do it in a way that is ugly, to get someone's word, to act like it's not quite a folk MP. I don't think that's expected of you, Mr. Pavicevic. You respect this House, the great Hall of the National Assembly as you wish and always speak. As vice president, in this case as chairman, it is my duty when someone points out a breach of the Rules of Procedure to give an explanation in the way I believe I should give it. I have also given an explanation to Miss Jerkov, whom I very much respect, to understand her reasons why she must report every time the President of the District Government is mentioned, but I cannot help her and to prevent the MPs from mentioning the criminal actions of the Provincial Government, as they say. I can't be a judge and say whether it's true or not, and stop them from saying it. And that it was her only possibility as an MP to call and try to deny it in her presentation. There's nothing more I can do about it. Are you satisfied with the answer? Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Here you go. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50800	Mr. Becic, when you gave me an explanation earlier, you came out of your business options, so I would like to draw your attention to article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because when you interpret my reasons for reporting to defend Bojan Pitiæ, you miss to see that I am not answering at all to defend Bojan Pitiæ. I answer to tell you that you react every time one of the opposition's MPs speaks of something that you don't like warning them not to talk about the topic of the agenda, and that Mr. Babic here reads the SNS party bulletin for five hours and that you think it's the topic of the agenda. When on the agenda we have a agenda item called – SNS informer we will then discuss what is written in that informer. When the Law on Public Enterprises is on the agenda, then there is no need for Mr Babic to read to us the SNS informer, and it is your obligation to warn him. No one here should defend Bojan Pajtic because everything Mr. Babic says exists on the government's website and everyone can see it's incorrect. It is your obligation to make sure that there is no SNS informant on the agenda that Mr. Babic has been reading for five and a half hours every time he comes forward. You should tell him it's not the agenda theme, not that someone's defending him, he doesn't need to talk about it because it's not the agenda theme. There's no way for the Rules of Procedure to talk about it. That's all I wanted to say, especially not to talk about yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50801	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. Let me have your opinion and I have that opinion, if every time you call the President of the District Government, I think it's your obligation as a MP to represent your president and that's fine. You are now challenging me and you are now asking me, but you could also ask Mr. Pavicevic to keep books in front of you and in his presentation to use some literature. You have some other books, Mr. Pavicevic. Very often you take the Serbian Dictionary and use that literature or book to claim, dispute, or something else in your presentation. You are now asking me to challenge Mr. Babic and not allow him to quote in his presentation some allegations from the press, from the book, from some informant. I don't know how I could do it and how you even thought you could ask me to be the chairman. Many things Miss Jerkov has not been the subject of both Mr Bozovic and Mr Ćirić, so that I do not list the MPs now. It's not a topic, but I'm like the chairman and that Mr. Markovic keeps throwing away, and that's not the subject, but I'm just letting it happen in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. One more thing, Miss Jerkov, it's not correct and you don't have the same arches, you're also here at the National Assembly in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, reading some lists, calling out the MPs, saying something that's not a topic, and now you're contesting it to your colleagues. I don't think that's right. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny. Please, I have pressures here, threats, not to let you read literature, so I'd like you to try to protect me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50802	Mr. Becic, you must endure the pressure. I know you're used to the pressures and I know you can handle that kind of pressure. I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, I do not see any connection with the advertising of Article 100's Rules of Procedure and the abuse committed by Ms. Aleksandra Jerkov, because a member of the 100th says that the president of the National Assembly when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wishes to participate in the search, leaves the presidency of one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. What does a member of 100 have to do with the Serbian Progressive Party's Informor, and with me personally, because she spoke more about the Serbian Progressive Party's Informor. Seeing the fascination, I will be very happy to present to my colleagues my picture with a dedication, and the Informor of the Serbian Progressive Party, and the only comment on these words that have just been made – the truth hurts, and I will continue to present the facts, I will continue to speak the truth, as my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50803	Thank you. You're right, Mr. Granny, the truth hurts. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50804	I have reported to the Rules of Procedure Chairman, Article 27 refers to you, to your work, I would like to ask you not to allow anyone or Mrs Jerkov, and you have repeated that something that works as an institution in our Constitution and law, and it is called the Executive Greater AP Vojvodina, and someone here calls the Government of Vojvodina, Prime Minister, etc. It's not the government, it's the Executive Bigger AP, let them plead so. So, the government is from Sudotica to Commerce one, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President is Aleksandar Vukic, and after the upcoming elections there will still be only one government, and that Serbia will win those elections and of course Alexander Vukic, and thank God someone else will be the president of the Executive Council of Vojvodina, not Mr Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50805	Mr. Shormaz, you're absolutely right, but you know that the Constitutional Court has disputed some provisions of the Statute, you know that they wanted that name so much that the Republic of Serbia still stands the AP of Vojvodina Regional Government on the site. I know it's a huge wish for them and I'm just handling it, that they feel so much like the government, and if it makes them happy, it's not a problem for me to say it. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day. (No) I thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50806	Thank you. You have injured Article 107, which binds you to the dignity of the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court has named it the Regional Government. The Constitutional Court, that's what it says, so please, while you're preside over it, we're saying that at least you respect the Constitutional Court. If you feel you have the right to say here that MPs represent party presidents, which is also a violation of Parliament's dignity. We do not represent, neither of us, the president of any party, but the Provincial Government is called so, not by choosing any party in Serbia, but by interpreting the Constitutional Court, by filing an appeal, that it cannot be the Government of Vojvodina, but by the Regional Government of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. The executive council isn't called long ago. I understand everything and charm to carry you and everything, but it has a limit, when you mock the Constitutional Court decisions in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50807	Mrs. Comic, that's proof you didn't listen to me. I have just said that the Constitutional Court has disputed some provisions of the Statute, but that the District Government is called the Regional Government. Mr. Shormaz had an objection to what I'm saying to the Prime Minister, which is not exactly how you say it, so... That's what the citizens of the Vojvodina dispute, it says, I respect it and that's why I say so. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) Whether we will return to the amendments or continue to suffer the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Risticevic is eager to talk about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50808	Of course. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that my colleague, I think he made a mistake, made a lapus, there's a provincial government to say right away, there are those of us who fought for it. There are those of us who have fought for it while those who laugh were some of them, let's say the Duke's government at Camp Milan Paroška and absolutely disputed the autonomy of Vojvodina. Since 1990, my People's Peasants' Party has advocated that Vojvodina has some kind of autonomy because it has more specificities than it deserves. Do not slow down the fact that some other regions that have that specificity, which I am primarily thinking about Kosovo and Metohija, have the same thing. But back to the amendment. So, I support the government's absolute proposal, it must not be deleted, I will give an example – we, for example, found 21 members of the board of directors in the RFZO. Twenty-one members. We've cut that number by seven. So seven people were doing a job that used to work 21 people. If they needed 21, seven people shouldn't have done everything. But it was only at the drug savings that compared to 2012, to save 3.6 billion, that in Serbia's budget, and it was intended for 30 billion, it remained 12.1 billion, not withdrawn for health care. So, instead of 21 people, the job worked seven people and achieved the savings recorded and thus helped the government of the Republic of Serbia buy a gamma knife with that money, while the former regime's party ruled and up to fourm euros were set aside for operations in Turkey. Also, while they were conducting various public procurements six times for the purchase of radiation machines, the government of the Republic of Serbia has managed to purchase the non-RFZO-saved money, including one for Vojvodina, which has tried six times unsuccessfully to obtain and to maintain these public procurements. What I understand, and here some applicants of the amendment look like that folk story about Grandma Djurovica, I understand the grief and pain of the lost elections in 2014, I understand and the anxiety, the grief and the pain of losing censorship, but I think they need to concentrate more on the data, see what progress is, to keep that progress intact, and not dispute at all costs. We should have a different opinion, but we have to agree on something, but let's say the number of members on the board of directors, the number of members who were on board, every reduction, any savings, regardless of the opposition, regardless of the grief and pain of the lost elections, because of the censorship they don't have, should support perhaps in such a situation, at the last minute, some voters withdraw. I will give only one example of the duchy, or capital investment administration. They bought two of the same machines. The Institute of Pulmonary Diseases paid three million and 536 thousand, and the same Oncology Institute of Vojvodina paid eight million 328 thousand. So five million more. It's about the model of their behavior, and I believe that's why they're lost, and that's why they're a little nervous. I believe it may be funny, I believe that I may have been mistaken in the 1990s when I saw the Duke of Duchy with the flag, the black one, at the camp of Duke Milan Parosko, because I didn't know that he was an amateur actor for 15 years, and only since 2000 has he played professionally in the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50809	Thank you. Miss Jerkov, do you want a word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: am I the amendmentr? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50810	Thank you, Mr. Becic. When he first spoke of why this amendment should not be accepted, Mr Babic said that the boards of directors, the boards of directors of Vojvodina have many members and fees for those memberships on these boards, so it should simply be said that, for example, there was no compensation for the board of directors in the Capital Investment Fund mentioned so much. It was in the Development Fund, but now interesting, the SNS also has members in the Management Board of the Capital Investment Fund and in the Supervisory Board of the Capital Investment Fund and in the Supervisory Board of the Vojvodina Development Fund. So that's all you have in mind. I'm asking you to direct these members, because such a crime as you mention I don't know if anyone could have suffered without reporting to the authorities. I don't believe they only delivered the data to the SNS informant. So when you talk about these boards of directors and supervisors, I ask you to inform yourself, to ask your members of the boards of directors and supervisors, that everyone was very happy, very actively and regularly participated in all sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50811	I thank Miss Jerkov, but you didn't understand. It wasn't about the present time, it was about the past, as it turns out, there were no boards of directors and supervisors at the time. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50812	I thank you for the opportunity for the replica, Mr. Becic, but all this information that I've been talking about is coming from these people sitting on the board of directors and of course voting against such a criminally corrupt, corrupt distribution of funds to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina. Of course they filed dozens of criminal charges against Bojan Pajtic and those of Mr Petrovic and others who distributed such funds. Of course they're the signatories of these criminal charges, and what you want to share is responsibility, so if you'll excuse me, that there's compensation for membership in the Management Board of the Capital Investment Fund, they've settled enough through these investments without cover and which have not been recovered. They got enough for grandkids to provide. There was enough to be one "Hatterland" of millions and 200,000 euros, where you left these children nothing, and to companies close to Bojan Pajtic's regime, I cannot say profit because what is taken cannot be profit, a million and 200 thousand euros. Of course, the competent state authorities are working on exactly that knowledge, just the people in those organs. We're talking about other things here, we're talking about system arrangements. Here we are talking about that there can never be another case like it was in the Republic Health Insurance Fund when he was 21 members of the board of directors. Twenty-one members, then compensation times, then expenses times, times I don't know what. Now for public enterprises set up by the Republic of five members of the Supervisory Board, with compensation determined by the Government, transparently and publicly, public enterprises established by the AP and units of local self-government, three members of the Supervisory Board, are not responding to you. The system doesn't suit you. Order doesn't suit you. That's the problem, which is there's nowhere else to replace party personnel and relatives and I don't know who's replacing you with membership on such committees anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50813	Thank you. I beg you, Miss Jerkov, you are now wondering why Mr. Babic is saying this in a replica, you have caused with your exposure to this replica and then you wonder why someone is saying something. I'm asking you to go back to the agenda on the amendments and then we won't get a chance to talk like this or talk about replicas, but we'll talk about the amendments that are on the agenda, and if you forget, we've got over 500 more. You have exactly two more hours of debate on the amendments, and then that's over, Mr. Pavicevic. If you want to talk about amendments, and you don't want to do that because you haven't explained a single amendment in the last few hours and that you've talked about the amendment. I ask you to at least do me so much that now in the next period and the next time of this session you are doing just that. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50814	Ladies and gentlemen, since Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Becic has asked me to strictly stick to the amendment, I will now read the explanation for our amendment to Article 16. I think it will be a strict adherence to the business provisions of our National Assembly. Here, we have written in our explanation for the amendment to Article 16 – this amendment has been submitted in order to bring the amendment to Article 1 in line with the defined objective. This means that Mr Sertić and the distinguished guests of the ministry had to return to the explanation of Article 1 in which he writes, so this is an explanation for the amendment to Article 16, as we believe, therefore, the MPs of the New Party, that it is not appropriate to hear it again here, that the issues of regulation of the legal position of public enterprises and other forms of organisation, which carry out the work of general interest, which makes the subject of the bill defined by Article 1 at the meeting of the National Assembly are discussed within one item of the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50815	Time, Mr. Pavicevic. For the sake of the public of Serbia, I will read the amendment you submitted. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: That's right, that's right. ) The amendment reads - the board of directors of a public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia has five members, one of whom is the chairman, the board of directors of a public enterprise, whose founder is an autonomous province or unit of local self-government has three members of which is one president. What does what the amendment says and what you asked to delete have to do with the explanation of the amendments that you have given one explanation for all the members of this law, you have started with Article 1 and you think you can read it with each member? It's your right, feel free to read, if you think, for every member, but you've made only one effort to write an explanation for all the members of this law and only one of your views, which is to be deleted. I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You're out of time. According to the amendment, Mr. Orlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50816	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you not accept it. Why? Once again, because we keep not hearing a single good reason why something like this could be supported. Why can't we hear it? Because those reasons just don't exist. Now we have heard a quote of the arguments that we have received in the written material by the promoter. So, I have to say, it's regrettable that, as long as this conference is going on, it's more than a year and a half, we're telling the amendment's proposing that this argument is completely pointless, that it can't try to adjust the text of something else by dealing with all ten members. It has nothing to do with logic. I'm going to try to provide appropriate help, so that what he wanted the Proposer to say should be formulated. The proposed amendment wants us to get closer to the goal we set for ourselves, explained it in an explanation of Article 1. That would make sense. And to influence the text of something on the tenth, and you're not doing it at all, that doesn't make any sense. Once again, the question of the agenda can't be a reason to delete the entire law, it can't. Why? Because the agenda is determined by the National Assembly, if we are to call on democracy to some of our arguments, then it is normal and meaningful to respect democratic decisions. This is completely non-serious. I may expect too much, because I expect the seriousness of some who pretend they haven't even heard of the city's municipalities, that they haven't heard of Obrenovac, Mladenovac, public city enterprises, but even though I may expect too much, I will still call once again for seriousness. Let me remind you, we are not here to satisfy our desire for promotion. That's not why people sent us to this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50817	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic. Thank you. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50818	Dear ladies and gentlemen, despite this quick reading of Mr. Becic, I will apply for every amendment and explain our amendments - is deleted. Here, in the case of Article 17, Minister Sertic suggested that he write the following, and we promised few citizens in the principle debate that we would refer them to the content of this Bill proposal, in article 17, the president and members of the Supervisory Board of Public Enterprise, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, appointed by the Government for a period of four years, one of which is a member of the Supervisory Board of Staff, and one member must be an independent member of the Supervisory Board. And that is the content of Article 1(1). Proposal for a law on public enterprises. In its position, Minister Sertic proposed the following text, to let the citizens hear a little: the president and members of the board of directors of the public enterprise whose founder of the autonomous province is appointed by the body designated by the statute of the autonomous province for a period of four years, one of which is a member of the supervisory board of staff. We also have the position of the 3rd member, which we also propose to delete and we have given an explanation for this, Mr. Bečić, the president and members of the board of directors of the public enterprise, whose founder is the units of local self-government, appointed by the body designated by the statute of the unit of local self-government, for a period of four years, of which one is a member of the Supervisory Board of Staff. Our opinion was, gentlemen, that because of the government's unserious approach to this legislative project, including the contents of Article 17, this member should be deleted, as well as all 86 members of this bill, respected Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50819	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. So that's why you signed the argument from Article 1. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 17th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50820	We discussed this in principle, what is this independent member of the Supervisory Board, and in what is it different from the other members who are likely to be dependent on and on whom is this independent? Shouldn't they all be independent in doing their... (Zeljko Sertić, from the place: This is not a member 18.) I thought it was 19, but here, I can do 18. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50821	We'll go straight to Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50822	I can do 18. She's 18. Do not deny the MPs if we want to talk. Okay, I'll call you when it's 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50823	Mr. Pavicevic, do you want to explain Article 18? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50824	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Jerkov has been very good at arguing the amendment to Article 18. I now wish to support Miss Jerkov with this performance...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50825	You think you're copying from Miss Jerkov?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50826	No, no. Dear gentlemen, it is most appropriate that we stick to the truth. When a person does his job well, properly, I think it's okay to say it, to be congratulated sometimes. That's why I support Mrs. Jerkov in the amendment to Article 18, with one note...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50827	But, Mr. Pavicevic, Miss Jerkov was talking about article 19. You've got a little bit of a mix-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50828	Yes, but the 16th in relation to Article 18 one goes after the other. Mr. Becic, it is obvious that you are not reading these legislative projects, unlike us from the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50829	I'm reading, Mr. Pavicevic, but Miss Jerkov said she thought this was Article 19.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50830	You'll eat me two minutes again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50831	You've got enough, Mr. Pavicevic. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50832	Mr Sertic certainly does not know that this amendment to Article 18 that we have submitted, Mr Becic, is one of the 2260 amendments submitted by us by the People's MPs of the New Party for this year and ten months of our joint work in this assembly of the National Assembly. Yeah, for example. I think, Mr Becic, that it is also worth congratulating, that here you, who are commenting on other MPs here often to take advantage of this place, to say once – all honor, MPs of the opposition, of dedication, of industriousness, because according to this, I think, we have become champions of Serbian parliamentism. Mr. Becic, just one more sentence, not just by the number proposed, but by Minister Sertic, and by the number of amendments accepted, almost 200 accepted amendments. We have almost 200 amendments accepted, you are, I think, the only minister who has not accepted any amendments. How is that possible, Mr. Sertice?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50833	Mr. Pavicevic, you don't understand. If you understand, you'd understand that I'm very sad that you've been spoiling your average by submitting these amendments. Now the average is much smaller. You lost support with the citizens, with the MPs. The average is no longer 9.90 or something. So you have a trend of decline. You had to think about it when you submitted these amendments. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50834	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MP Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZ has submitted an amendment to Article 18 and it is essential and I think it is worth the attention. The explanation we got is, let me say, I'm not looking for an expression because I'm going to read it, so you're going to figure out how you gave us the explanation. We ask that Article 5, so this member regulates, namely, what are the conditions to be met by the members of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, add some other conditions that should improve quality and satisfy what you are in your interpretation of the law permanently instructed, which is that you want to know what is done, to seriously manage. We figured that out in that sense. We have suggested that in Article 3, instead of five, seven years of work experience on high education jobs, point 5 is then that it is not at the time of appointment or in the last two years before the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board. In the end, what's most important, this argument of yours needs to have knowledge from corporate governance is too broad a term and it doesn't have to be expressed to that extent, but it's enough to leave that part out for the reason that a complete programme is adopted by the government and it practically manages this public enterprise. You have explained that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that there are no reasoned reasons. I'm the one who explained it. The proposed amendment would also undermine the integrity of the regulation of the matter in question as set out in the draft law. It's completely pointless. So neither has this amendment come without explanation, nor is this being violated. On the contrary, this strengthens the capacity of a public enterprise to function in terms of better control, more competent management. I think this amendment should be accepted and the explanation you've given is below your level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50835	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50836	I will try to explain and supplement the explanation you received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for a very specific member and for the suggestions on how to improve this member. We have already completed it, compared to the previous law, and set certain criteria that are significantly higher. We think that if we set the criteria that you put in place, we wouldn't have full purpose, that we would have problems in selecting good and quality people for members of the Supervisory Board, because the criteria you put on seven years of work experience are five years of serious criteria. I'm not saying it's not a good idea, but let's slow down, as we raise the capacity of the overall economy and responsibility in our country, we also raise the capacity of people who can work. So I would always agree to set maximum criteria, but somewhere I think we need to make sure it's balanced. So, anyway, no matter what we don't accept this member, I thank you for your constructive approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50837	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Dr Miroslav Marinkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50838	Let me add another very important thing. We also predicted this amendment that a member of the supervisory board is not a member of the political party and that he does not serve as a member of the political party. You'd practically do a complete depolitanization. I'm afraid this is why you didn't accept the amendment at point 7. I don't think that's good for anyone at all, because every government, whatever it is, and now and in the future, has to count on competent people having to manage national good. But it didn't happen in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50839	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 18th amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50840	Thank you. Now is what I wanted to ask in advance of the previous amendment. If we say that one member alone is independent, does that mean that other members are dependent on who they are addicted to? Shouldn't we be thinking in the direction that it's all going to be independent? I don't know what the intention was. We're getting something out of this article in 19. However, this "independent" is not a good term. If we point out that he is independent for one, then the other is the opposite of the independent, or the addiction, so I'm just asking you to tell me who they're addicted to? Is he of the one who named them, is he of the company? I don't think it's a good term, but I don't think the whole law is right, so this term is less.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50841	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50842	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I support colleague Aleksandra Jerkov in an argument for an amendment that reads as "wipes" to Article 19. Proposal for a law on public enterprises. First of all, and about this term to add one part of my argument, because as Mr. Becic noticed, I have some books here. One necessary in the work of the MPs is a Serbian dictionary. We need him here more than we need him, gentlemen. Now, over one of these termological dilemmas, announced by Mrs Jerkov, for example, "independent" and "dependent" in the dictionary says: "independent" – on its own, free. Mrs. Jerkov said nicely. If we put an independent on whom it's independent, and what would it mean if it's dependent on who? If we apply this meaning here, that it's independent or free, we haven't solved the dilemma. Everything Mrs Jerkov said was very well stated in favour of this amendment. I have another argument for this amendment to Article 19, regarding this moment. Mr. Becic, it's one hour and seven minutes now. For more than six hours, we've been discussing amendments to this bill. We only made it to Article 19, and in this law there are 86 members. So we may be 1/5 amendments on the first draft of the law just finished, and we have 13 other draft laws. For me, if I were a minister, it would also be one sign that there must be some things wrong with these legislative projects, gentlemen. I'd take that as one, if we called him Mr. Becic, if you'd agree to a situational argument. So this current situation has now shown us that we are right and that the minister is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50843	Mr. Pavicevic, I didn't expect you to say, when you support colleague Jerkov, that you also support the chairman in his efforts to talk only about amendments. You've noticed something else, and that's that we're already in the sixth hour, and we'd be already at the end if we talked about the amendments, if it hadn't been for everything and everything, and that's the first time that you've at least half-explained some amendment for the first time. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50844	Parliamentwoman Jerkov had a very specific question, and I will try to answer as part of article 19 has been made. This means that an independent member must fulfil, in addition to all these conditions defined in the previous Article 18, and additional conditions, which is: that he has not been engaged in the audit of financial reports in the last five years, so there is no direct interest in the last five years with the company; that he is not a member of the political party, therefore not to freeze his function, but cannot be a formal member of any political party; and third, that he is not appointed, appointed, elected, elected person and is not employed or engaged in any way in the company. Since we have defined in Article 17 that there must be and there must be a representative and an employee, i.e. a representative of a supervisory board, the independence of one of the members is defined here, whether it is a three-member board or a five-member. This one must be fully independent of all of these elements listed in Article 19, i.e. in paragraphs one, two and three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50845	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50846	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Article 19 speaks of special conditions that should be met by an independent member of the Supervisory Board. I would only relate to what my colleague Marinkovic said, and it has to do with Article 18. If you have looked closely at our amendments to Article 18 and Article 19, you will see that we have put some of the conditions that you have given in Article 19 into Article 18, and here we have added that, or we have changed the text of Article 19 and where we say that an independent member of the Supervisory Board should also fulfil the condition that he is not a public official in terms of the provisions of the laws governing conflict of interest. We think this is very important, and we don't think that a member of the Supervisory Board should be a public official who has any obstacles within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Of course, we received a type of response to the refusal of this amendment, where I would read again what is mentioned all the time, which is, the amendment is not accepted because there are no reasonable reasons for the proposed amendment. The proposed provision would also undermine the integrity of the regulation of the matter under the draft law, where I would really like you to explain to us, Mr Minister, that this provision would violate the integrity of the regulation of the matter in question as set out in this proposal for a law, given that we have included all the conditions in Articles 18 and 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50847	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50848	Yes, but you cannot give a summary replacement of a member, i.e. an amendment to Articles 18 and 19 together, but you have individually put the article 18 and the amendment on Article 19. Since we didn't accept your amendments to Article 18, we can't go to Article 19, because you just said yourself that you've mixed the rules in both members. You have set a different practical methodology of choice and I have supported you in terms of the general idea that this is a good direction, but that we have remained in the position that yet as it is written is well enough at this point and that it represents an improvement compared to the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50849	Thank you, Minister. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 19th amendment. You don't have time for this amendment, Mr. Markovic. Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Master Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50850	The Honorable Minister, the President-in-Office, speaks of an independent member of the Supervisory Board, and I am fully aware of why you went in this direction, as well as that you explained both in the principle debate and what you wanted as a goal to achieve in the draft of this law, and that these members are 16,17,18,19, related to right here, to say, the depolitisation of these systems. However, what my colleague and I have proposed is to consider whether a better formulation is, to say, that it is not a political party official and at this point 2 where you say - that this member of the Supervisory Board should not be a member of the political party. Realising that we may open that topic in perhaps one interesting way, we suggest that this be considered. Why? Because you said that the experience you had in adopting this law on the draft of this law was crucial, and I think that the experience that we all had in the past three years in the work, above all, of the Supervisory Committees at the local level that you spoke of and in the principle debate, should be worrying. If you wanted to put this member of the Supervisory Board in an independent position, you shouldn't say in article 17 who are dependent members and I think if you thought about having experience, where 50,000 people in the previous three or four years are employed on the party line, it was through the work of the supervisory boards of this character that should have limited some other things. For example, it should have been said that a member of a narrow family or who is on the Supervisory Board could not be employed for the next few years in that system and some judicial systems. I mean, yeah, time is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50851	Time's up, you finish your sentence free. I'm just warning you on time. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50852	I understand the context of your speech and proposal, but just to define exactly what is defined and said in Article 19(2). So we suggest that an independent member cannot be a member of a political party at all. It's a much stricter solution than what you're proposing, and we'll definitely stay with this independent member at this point that he can't be a member of any political organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50853	Thank you. Members of the 20th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. You want to talk? I thought you might be a little tired. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50854	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Becic, you schedule a night session at seven and then I don't report for my amendments. Would that make sense? It wouldn't make sense. If the session had been scheduled at ten o'clock, so let me say, let's say, let's say, let's say some amendments go a little bit more detailed, some a little less, but at seven o'clock in the night, and now that I don't explain. That doesn't make any sense. I promised Minister Sertic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50855	Mr. Pavicevic, you know the rule very well. We've completed the principle debate, it must be 24 hours, as soon as it's been 24 hours, we've continued in detail. So it's all clear here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50856	All right, I'll do that in the Rules of Procedure later, and now let me explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50857	You asked me, Mr. Pavicevic, I have to answer now. Whenever you give me a question, I have to answer it. It's the presidency's duty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50858	When I talk about the amendment, Mr. Becic directs me to talk about something that is not an amendment, for example, now about the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where he writes to Mr. Becic that the rule that we have sessions is from 10-18, and I wonder what we are doing here...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50859	You said it yourself, Mr. Pavicevic. So it doesn't have to be like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50860	The rules are that we stick to the rules, not that we don't respect them. What do we schedule for a session outside the rules? Answer me now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50861	Let me answer you first. You said it yourself, by the book. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What is it? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50862	What's this about? The night session at seven o'clock starts, at half past two we need to talk about amendments to public enterprises and now what's going on. It's just that night sessions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50863	That you have no arguments for amendments and then you're looking for reasons to talk about anything just so you don't talk about the explanation of your amendments. That's what this is about, Mr. Granny, if you don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50864	They're my primary amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50865	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50866	It's a 106th term. It's about everything. In the presentations of Mr Pavicevic, I see by the volume of literature he brought, I believe that in some early morning hours, and we are ready and in the mood to talk as long as it takes, probably some chef will read to us. I haven't heard of any amendments, but I ask you that at the time when I or any of my colleagues from the SNS, as well as my colleague Pavicevic, cross that line of harassment and mobbing that we are exposed to for personal promotion, I ask you to stop him. On the other hand, I fully understand Mr. Pavicevic. I understand colleagues across the street, the elections are close, they know that this building and this hall will probably look only on the screen or when they pass the Square of Nikola Pasic. They know that they are below the censorship precisely because of the policy they are implementing in this way and this unserious or towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then they want to make up for it by reporting and talking about what it is, but not about the amendments. It is up to you, Mr. Chairman, that you respect the Rules of Procedure and that everyone and me and other colleagues and colleagues at the moment when we cross that border and don't talk about amendments that are on the agenda, take your word away. It's your right, but it's also your obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50867	Thank you, Mr. Granny. What you said last thing I'm going to do is listen to it completely. First of all, you are wrong because Mr. Pavicevic spoke of the amendment on one amendment. He managed on one amendment to have the subject of the amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50868	Dear Chairman, I have been sitting in this room all the time trying to make some of the work and amendments that we have submitted here, and we are making a contribution to this debate in the right direction, and I really call on you to, in accordance with Article 108(1), which speaks of you taking care of the order in the session, to ask how much you have actually contributed to this atmosphere together with other colleagues, how much Mr. Pavicevic has been exposed to this pressure that he has several times already been unable to show what he wanted, that he has been in trouble all along, that you are throwing about what he wanted to say, that you are interpreting his statement... People's MPs are getting it. What? Here's how it's thrown.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50869	Please, Mr. Markovic, because you're using a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MPs are getting it. I only have one question for you. You've asked me a question, and I'm going to answer you through one question. You spoke of your amendment earlier. Did anyone interrupt you in any way? You spoke for two minutes, I eventually warned on time, said you could finish. Did anyone interrupt? It would be the same case with Mr Pavicevic if he spoke of his amendments as you. You have properly fulfilled your parliamentary duty, spoken of the amendment, and no one has interrupted you. Mr Pavicevic does not talk about amendments and he must be interrupted by the chairman. I'm going to take Mr. Babic's advice, not because Mr. Babic said it, but whoever said it in this room right now. So, the moment the amendment isn't spoken of, I'm gonna hang up right now. Whoever wants to talk about the amendments, he'll be talking about the amendments tonight, who doesn't want to, will have to do it another time with another chairman. Are you happy, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I did not finish. No, you're done. Thank you. I've given you, you can direct the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've instructed her. I gave you an explanation and that's it. There's no further, Mr. Markovic. Thank you. Jovan Markovic throws. It's enough to know that I'm interpreting the Rules of Procedure, that you have the right to point out in two minutes, I realized after a minute and a half and I gave an explanation. I can only ask you if you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. We're moving on to Article 20. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want to follow this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50870	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have tabled an amendment to Article 20 which, in the post-word position - Article 18, is added words - except for point 5. He's in line with Article 18 and the amendments we submitted to Article 18, and here I'd like to give a special explanation, you gave the exact same explanation, if it wasn't, and I'll read it for you, not for me. What if it's a public enterprise that is a medical institution, where the activity it performs is strictly specific, the Reproductive Centre, artificial insemination, the institute, etc., where it's important that one of the members of the collective be someone who participates directly in the affairs of this area, and you conditioned him to have knowledge from corporate governance or finance, which is completely unnecessary for such a type of institution? I think you've made an oversight, probably, and you have to bear in mind that in such institutions it's much more important for you to have a member of the collective as someone who deals with the work that this organization was founded for, rather than doing financial business, because you have four other members who can be. I think the amendment is acceptable, because it only says that it's except for point 5, and it's completely too much and there's no way to convince me that it's not, and you've given me an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why there are no reasoned reasons. Also, the proposed provision would undermine integrity. It wouldn't violate, on the contrary, even better, because this member of the collective should certainly be someone who knows the process of production that the organization is dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50871	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50872	As just before, the argument is primarily legal because we haven't changed members 17,18,19, so by automation we can't do your proposal on Article 20. You have asked another question about the ability, or health of professional people from the company. Article 18 states precisely in one position that the president and members of the Supervisory Board are obliged to further develop professionally in the field of corporate governance. If you want to be a member of the Supervisory Board, you must have special knowledge. It's not just expertise that's enough. You need expertise to be director, manager, chief or any other management body if there is already a management mechanism in a particular company. If you want to deal with these broader aspects of work, such as managing through the Supervisory Board, we are introducing through the law the process of education of members of the Supervisory Board. We will also introduce certain licences, the government will bring in very short-term regulations on what it is that all those people who want to be members of the supervisory board of any company in the RS will have to know, and that is one big step forward, one big newspaper compared to all the rules and rules that have defined this area so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50873	Thank you. The word has Dr Miroslav Marinkovic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50874	Mr. Minister, you didn't understand me at all, and don't bother, and it doesn't matter. I have to say this because of the expert public who will resent you and you are wrong because a geneticist at an embryo-technology institute knows the process of production will better predict and manage and propose to that supervisory board than someone who is layman in that area. You have completely excluded most of them, and here is evidence for you: 70% of the people in the institutes make up these people for you. You automatically shut them down from being able to participate. (Zeljko Sertić, from the place: It is not true. It is, but you don't know what you have. Believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50875	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Balša Bozic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50876	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 21 on the basis of one of our orientations to the free market that we should have at work, Minister Sertic, and on the occasion of our amendment to Article 21 which make up four positions, I am now particularly interested in one question in the event that this bill is accepted and that most MPs vote for him. For example, in his last position he writes – the president and members of the supervisory board to whom he has suspended his mandate are obliged to perform their duties until the appointment of a new supervisory board, i.e. the appointment of a new president or member of the Supervisory Board, and for a maximum period of six months. I was wondering, what happens if the president and members of the Supervisory Board cease to serve, they continue to carry out their duties, not named new within six months, what is the penalty? Then how is this situation solved since I noticed that even now we have some examples of where a period is given for some organs that they can act for example. in some V.D. a condition or in some temporary state, to extend that time limit beyond what is legally prescribed without having any kind of sanction for it? When I carefully read the contents of this article's attitude, I especially took a look at all the objections that we generally have on this law and on your approach, and I particularly wondered about this and I'd be interested in hearing whether you might have a solution to this potential problem that may arise as problems have arisen in the abuse of public enterprises, for example. in local communities, local self-government units?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50877	Time. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50878	The legal solution so far did not limit the duration of that condition in which you have a deadline or a limited time limit so that you can be in that temporary governing body, since you have resigned or have been resolved on some basis. We have very consciously put the conclusion of a sentence that says – and for the longest six months, just to avoid any abuse and any question of what to do afterwards. If the Authority does not have a chairman of the Supervisory Board or a member of the Management Board, it cannot function and you automatically have a system problem that cannot be solved differently but just by setting up a new member. So far, according to current solutions, you could have had an almost unlimited period of someone who was formally resolved, and he was legally left to last until the appointment of the next one. So this is one big promotion in advance and regulation of that right that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50879	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50880	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this six-month deadline I understood for practical reasons. Someone who wants to learn can understand it very quickly. For example, the term of office of one local self-government expires, the term of office is about to expire, it lasts four years, no assembly of municipalities is established, no local government is established, you need one transitional period, so for three months, until a temporary authority is established. In order to establish new authorities in the notified companies, i.e. to appoint new members of the Supervisory Board, this transitional period is necessary. I'm not a college teacher, but from practical experiences and logical thinking, who wants to learn, who knows, who knows, who knows, who doesn't know, he already knows something. I advise my esteemed colleague to try to learn something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50881	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 21st amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50882	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, Article 21 deals with the termination of the term of office of the President and members of the Supervisory Board and now says that the term of office ceases with the resignation or resolution. There are then cases where the chairman and members of the Supervisory Board are dismissed, that this provision, which we have now spoken of, would be in the last position, that the president and members of the Supervisory Board who have suspended the mandate are obliged to carry out their duties until the appointment of a new Supervisory Board, i.e. until the appointment of a new chairman or member of the Supervisory Board, and for a maximum period of six months. We have proposed that this change be made, so that after the term of office of the members, or the chairman of the Supervisory Board, they will remain in that body, only when the termination of the term of office is due to the resignation or expiry of the period for which they have been elected. Because it doesn't make sense that if the founder makes a decision to get rid of some member of the supervisory board, doesn't appoint another, we don't know, again, for some reason maybe he doesn't appoint another, and they're resolved because, I don't know, they didn't do something from these earlier points that this member is saying, how do they stay in office? So we think that this extension can only happen when they resign or the period for which they are appointed expires. That's one change. The second change is that this deadline can last, not six months, but 60 days. I think we've been throwing ourselves at each other for months, and then we remember that we can catch something, that we don't have to do something for a while. I think if we want to make and bring order into the country, then this 60-day deadline that we suggested is appropriate. I'm just going to remind the MPs who, I see, in the debate, have been disturbed by similar reasonings on certain amendments they have made to this bill, to look at the government's arguments about non-acceptance of amendments, which are the same. No matter what the amendment says, the Government tells us that the amendment is not accepted because there are no reasoned reasons for the proposed amendment, which is an insult, because there is an explanation for each amendment. Then he also says -- the proposed provision would violate the integrity of the regulation of the matter in question set out in the bill. So if you're consistent, so do you mind, then I'm asking you to mind this argument, same 245 times written by an old lawmaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50883	Thank you. I might have a comment on this, Mr. Pavicevic, but I'll refrain. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Well, what a comment... ) Well, on the same account, there must be the same explanation on the other hand. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50884	Your Honour, you have put in your amendment a two-seat correction. If you'd gone individually to the amendments or if you'd just put this first attitude to name a person for the longest time in 60 days, I'd be willing to accept such a solution of yours. But since we must legally accept the entire amendment, we cannot accept it in part, then unfortunately we must refuse this part. Anyway, we don't think it's a bad solution that you suggested in this first position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50885	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 21st Amendment. Members of the 22nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50886	Dear ladies and gentlemen, and this member, like all members of the 16th and so forth, concerns the Supervisory Board. I now want to extend my argument a little bit, above all, to the arguments for not accepting this amendment and by other MPs. For example, Article 22 now states what the supervisory board is doing. I was suggested here that the best way would be to get a little bit of guidance on how the supervisory board works, how people change, how after six months, they can't work any further, so I could get on some supervisory board to get a little practice, and then I'll know that. Dear gentlemen, I've never been a member of any board of directors, no board of directors, I've never had that experience, I've never had that practice. Dear gentlemen, I am otherwise a great opponent of this accumulation of certain functions, of taking up a large number of positions in this monitoring board of public enterprises. I've never been on that board of directors. I've always tried to do one thing, and here's the thing. I no longer work at the Faculty of Political Sciences as a doctor, because I have dedicated myself to my work as a MP in the National Assembly. (Zoran Babic, from the post: This much about the amendment. ) Here, Mr. Babic is constantly making remarks – let's talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50887	Well, rightly so, Mr. Pavicevic, because you're not talking about the amendment. But Mr. Babic forgot what I said, that you were incorrigible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50888	Well, was it me that was told – get practice in supervisory committees, boards of directors? I have to fight against partocracies, gentlemen. Have we all defined here that partocrat is one of the biggest problems? Now that I say a word against partocratism, Mr. Babic says - stop him from speaking. So, Mr. Babic is an advocate for the consolidation of partocratism in Serbia. That's the conclusion I've just drawn, here, based on this intervention by Mr. Babic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50889	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50890	I think we're all in the same room and we're all talking to each other. I just heard Mr. Pavicevic offer to join some board of directors, some board of directors. He said, "Here, I want to join the board of directors to learn how to do and what to do there." Well, who's for partocrats, the one who's offered himself or me who resigned because the SNS made a decision to ban the accumulation of functions? One man, one function. That's it. We have shown this in practice, unlike the amendment promoter, who in this way offered you, Mr Sertić, to put him on some board of directors, in some supervisory committee. He did it in a second, third sentence. For truth's sake, look at the stenogram, look at what's said and who's for partocracy, then who's for the parting of the boards of directors and supervisors, the one who's offered a seat on that committee. And what I intervened for, I intervened for, and now and in the future I will intervene when it is not about the proposed amendments, but about the chef, about what wishes, greetings and congratulations, as Mr Pavicevic did just now, and I will always intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50891	You're right, Mr. Granny. Time's up. I'm taking a break, since we have a lot of reports that few people are... Break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50893	So you violated article 101. A Rules of Procedure that says the President of the Assembly can interrupt the Assembly to hold a new session of the Assembly, with the obligation to explain the interruption and that the president of the National Assembly, he further says, informs the MPs about the continuation of the session. So, you've introduced practice here that at some point when you have the impression that you can't keep order at the session, you say you're setting a break without informing the MPs until that break lasts. Whether it lasts for a while or for a while, minutes, hours, whatever. You have to when you say you're setting a break to say how long this break is going to take, not to say I'm setting a break and you're going to continue after ten seconds of sitting. Please stop this practice because it does not exist in the Rules of Procedure, does not give you the Rules of Procedure that right, gives you the right to terminate, but you have to say how long this break will take, because this is not how we can do it. It's not a solution to your inability to hold sessions of the National Assembly. So, read the Rules of Procedure and see that you have to tell us how long the breaks take, because only such breaks make sense and can be determined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50894	Mr. Đurishic, you've been an MP for a long time, and I didn't expect this from you. I will read Article 112 for the sake of the public – that if the president of the National Assembly and the chairman of the regular measures cannot hold order, they can hold warnings, and I do not want it, the order of the session will set a break until order is established. My estimate is if it's after ten seconds, after 30 seconds, after five minutes, after three hours. I thought after 30 seconds that I had established order and continued the session. If you do not understand, I can read again Mr. Djurisic – if the chairman of the National Assembly cannot establish order at the session with regular measures, he will set a break until order is established. I also considered Mr. Zivkovic, now that he has come to sleep, he has fallen asleep, I can read it again – if the chairman of the National Assembly cannot establish order at the session with regular measures, he will set a break until order is established. I'll do it as many times as I think is enough. Are you happy, Mr. Djurishic? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I did not talk about it to a member, so I do not know what you're talking about. You are referring to another member, and as chairman, I am calling on a member who gives me the right to do what you have challenged to me by the chairman of the National Assembly. Thank you. Do you wish to speak by amendment to Article 22, which was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic, who was accepted by the government? Unfortunately, you can't have time. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandra Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50895	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, Article 22 speaks of the obligations and rights of the Supervisory Board, and says that it adopts a long-term and medium-term business strategy plan, so it adopts an annual, three-year business programme, adopts reports on the degree of implementation of the annual, or three-year business programme, adopts a three-month report on the degree of compliance of planned, implemented activities, adopts a financial report, monitors the work of the Director, adopts statutes, decides on status changes, establishing other legal entities and investing capital, and so on, in Article 1. Article 2 states that the decisions referred to in Article 1(1), (2), (7) and (9) of this Member shall be taken by the Supervisory Board with the consent of the Government, the competent authority of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government, depending on the level at which level. who is the founder of a public enterprise. And the next point is that the decision referred to in point 8 of Article 1(3), and I will repeat point 8 of the decision on the status changes in the establishment of other legal entities and the investment of the capital of this member, shall be taken by the Supervisory Board with the prior consent of the Government, the competent authority of the Autonomous Province or the unit of local self-government. We add a new position, we propose a new position that shows – the government, the competent authority of an autonomous province or units of local self-government delivers consent within 15 days of the date of the request of the Supervisory Board. In the event that no consent has been delivered within that period, it shall be deemed not to have been given. We have proposed this in view of the importance of a decision requiring the consent of the founders, and we believe that it is necessary to establish the time limit within which the consent is delivered, i.e. not to deliver consent within the specified time limit, means that it is denied. You refused us with an explanation not to accept it given that it wasn't precisely defined. Well, I'd like to ask you for an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50896	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov and together by MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50897	Major reforms have been announced as preventing members of the Supervisory and Management Committees from earning some material gain by being on those committees. However, Article 23 says - the president and members of the Supervisory Board are entitled to an adequate fee for working on the Supervisory Board. The amount of compensation referred to in Article 1(1), i.e. the criteria and criteria for determining it, shall be determined by the Government, so we ask that it be deleted. This parliament, we could have determined that compensation, so we could say that compensation is one dinar or an average salary in Serbia or nothing. I'll give you a few good examples of how that's possible. I've been in my political life since 1993 on three boards of directors. At the Management Board of the National Theatre in Nis, the Management Board of the SDPR or the South-Import and the Management Board of the Development Fund of the Republic of Serbia. Not in any, of course, I haven't made any material compensation, no matter what some of them had the right to do at the time, it's just completely pointless. It is an honor to be on the board of directors or supervisory board of some such institution. Therefore, it should have written in this article – there is no fee for anyone to participate in the work of supervisory or management committees at local, regional or national level. That didn't happen. That's why all the members and this one, especially the 23rd, but everyone else needs to be wiped out. I call upon the minister to accept the amendment and ask for the removal of all members concerned with any material compensation from anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50898	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50899	I'd just like to add what my colleague Zivkovic said. So we have this attitude that this member should be deleted, we have concrete reasons and we have cited them in our own explanation. We think both the president and the members of the Supervisory Board should have no compensation for working on the Supervisory Boards, and even less for that amount of compensation to be determined by the Government by its act. So, if the state said it was saving, and if it keeps warning about a difficult economic situation all the time, we thought that by erasing this member, we would contribute, if nothing else, at least to the fact that public enterprises don't spend money on supervisory committees, their members and presidents. Even weirder is the explanation I also got and I wouldn't read it, it's typical for almost all the amendments, I'd just read this second part that says – the proposed erasure would disrupt the integrity of the order of matter objects. Please, don't make such amendments where we state the specific reasons why we propose to delete the members, because this is about saving, because it's a difficult economic situation, and don't give us any of these reasons, and I would ask you how the integrity of the matter's order would be disrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50900	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50901	I know we've been here almost seven hours and we've been discussing this law, and I know some of our colleagues rested, so they came, it's legitimate and normal, but let's talk facts. By deleting Article 23, does that compensation come down to zero? No, I don't. If you wanted the amendment to be zero, you had to submit an amendment that you would say, the president and members of the Supervisory Board do not have the right to receive adequate compensation, etc. As you suggested, it would only mean that in one non-transparent way with the lights off, as is the desire of local self-government or AP or the founder of that public enterprise, to determine that compensation, as there was no rule, other than to be an odd number of board members and supervisory boards, and the second rule, you didn't have. Don't distract the people who are watching us now, that you are showing this amendment some desire to preserve the funds of Serbian citizens. It's a lie. If you wanted to save the funds of Serbian citizens, the amendment would have to be different. In this way, by erasing only Article 23, you only leave the possibility to determine in an extremely non-transparent way the compensation of these people. We don't want that. We want it to be a government decision. You say, imagine the government determining compensation. I'll remind you of an example that was here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The members of the VSS and the DVT from the ranks of lawyers and professors at the Faculty of Law were compensated at the height of the parliamentary allowance, and then by the decision of the Administrative Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, the compensation, by raising the hands of former members of the regime who are sitting in parliamentary benches, the compensation, do you know what amount it was increased to? On six average salaries in the Republic of Serbia, six average salaries, each of these members, and four, VSS and DVT, from the ranks of lawyers and law professors received compensation for membership in the VSS and DVT of nearly 200,000 dinars. By your decision, gentlemen, you who now care for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have honored those four people, ten million dinars, and wonder how many kindergartens, schools, better conditions in the infirmarys? How much more for the social categories of people, and you've bought ten million dinars by decision of the Administrative Board, by your decision, four people with ten million dinars, not yours, ten million of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's how you do it when there's no law, that's how you do it when you delete Article 23, Mr. Sertic. Do you know what happened in 2012? That year, another congregation majority, which was made by the SNS, was returned to the old ones, to make that compensation the way it was before, which is at the height of the parliamentary allowance. Do you know what happened in the next 48 hours? That four people, all four of them resigned, which just shows that your man only came here for money, just for money. At the time that compensation was reduced to a normal amount, everyone resigned because they had no motive to work. This is how you prescribed fees for memberships in the Management, Supervisory Boards, VSS, DVT and VT. Therefore, please don't just talk about taking care of Serbian citizens and public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50902	The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50903	Mr. Chairman, from this speech of my predecessor, I can only conclude, and I must ask the minister, did the government give up the austerity measure and that is my first question. The second question, and it concerns this member of the law, how can a fee be paid for working on supervisory committees, if it is not in the law? I'd really like Mr. Secretary to explain that to me. How can compensation be paid to the president and members of the Supervisory Board, if it is not in the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50904	Same as before. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the title above the members and the 24th amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50905	It says Article 24 that the director of a public enterprise, whose founder of the Republic of Serbia is appointed by the Government, the director of an enterprise whose founder of the province has been appointed by someone designated by the province's statute and the director of a public enterprise whose founder is the units of local self-government, is determined by the local self-government authority responsible for this. Of course it needs to be erased. Of course, that's understood. A public company is established because of public interest, and the Constitution of Serbia says who is in charge of public interest. There is no need to burden the law with such standards that are completely pointless, it is as if we are determining that today is February 23rd and that it is Wednesday and that tomorrow is Thursday and that tomorrow the Serbian Prime Minister cannot come to answer our questions, and everyone knows that. There's no need...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50906	Mr. Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50907	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 24. It's just for the best. So, the directors are elected by the Serbian government, the government of Vojvodina or the local self-government. There's no doubt about it. Some MPs wondered where I was, I had slept to prepare for this debate, and I am always ready for any debate, as did Mr Pavicevic. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50908	Mr. Zivkovic... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Were you arrested? ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Did you interrupt him who pronounced the insult? ) Mr. Zivkovic, I interrupted you so that I could tell Mr. Martinovic that he must not throw away the Rules of Procedure, and if he continues, I will have to make a point. But I also wanted to tell you that before you came, we agreed that we would no longer be allowed to speak outside the amendment. The moment you try it, I'll break up and don't ask why I'm interrupting later. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: If you give me my time... I don't want to give you any more time, now we're going to go to the next amendment, but in the future... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I had more time. You don't have time, but in the future... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You have wasted my time you.) You have enough amendments, you don't have to worry. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: I hold you to my word. And why are you, sir, so I'm telling you that you already have the next amendment... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Because you took 30 seconds from me. Mr. Zivkovic, I'll... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You're a good thief. It's no problem for me to give you... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Why are you acting like this? Well, because you're acting like one, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How am I acting? Well, you're acting like one. You won't let me run a session, to warn Mr. Martinovic that you can't throw away, well, because you're acting like one, Mr. Zivkovic. It's not a problem for 30 seconds, you'll get 30 seconds and minutes and two minutes and five minutes, but just a request to talk about the amendment. Nothing more. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: I do not steal. Every time you talk about amendments, I won't interrupt you two minutes later. So, I'm asking you... (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: 30 seconds. ) You will get 30 seconds, but please go back to the amendment and talk about the amendment, we've just started, we've lost a lot of time, we've started talking about amendments, this is important for the citizens of Serbia to hear what our arguments are on the one hand and on the other. So please return to the amendment. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic, will you allow Mr. Zivkovic to use his 30 seconds? There's no need to go back to... I'll have to take a break if we keep going back to the Rules of Procedure. I beg you now, we've cleared this up, Mr. Zivkovic, to use his 30 seconds and continue the debate. Do you agree? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: But we didn't clear what Mr. Martinovic was throwing all the time. ) Mr. Markovic, I have already pointed out to Mr. Zivkovic that replicating with me makes it impossible for me to follow from the other side what someone throws and whether someone throws, I ask you to talk about the amendments and there will be no need, believe me, here is a colleague Karavidic talking about the amendments, you have talked about the amendment, no one has thrown you. No one was throwing you away, so I ask the MPs to follow your example, both you and Mrs. Karavidic, and no one will throw you away, and I will not interrupt you. I hope we have a deal. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50909	Thank you very much. So the directors of public enterprises are elected, as they have been chosen in the last 200 years, or at least for the last 50 years in this country, and that's perfectly normal. What's the problem? The problem is that they have too many salaries, which they don't deserve in any way. All these companies are big losers and this loss is passed on to some future generations. I've been gone for two hours, because one Emily was born, which unfortunately will have to be burdened with the debts created by this government and I congratulate Mark...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50910	I thank Mr. Zivkovic, you've spoken for over 30 seconds, it's really for congratulations, but you have to talk about amendments. Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Granny? (Zoran Babic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50911	Every child is a treasure and I join congratulations on the birth of a child, that she is alive and healthy and that she is much better than we are, she won't be hard at it. But what I have to notice is how far the previous speaker has been prepared for the debate has also been saying something that has claimed that public enterprises have chosen for the past 200 years. Something I don't remember is that public enterprises existed in Serbia 200 years ago. Well, he's made it right that way for the last 50 years. I don't remember it very much, I'm 45 years old, I remember for a long time, but 50 years there are public enterprises in Serbia, it also doesn't stand. But the highlight of not preparing for the debate shows the fact that it hit the day. We are in the middle, but not February 23, but February 24th, so I see that the effects of that celebration are that they feel and hear here for a reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50912	Please, Mr. Granny, I think you've realized for yourself that we should go back to the amendment. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50913	Of course, I always stick to the agenda and the Rules of Procedure protocol. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this amendment, I understand my fellow farmer's stomach. It is a great injustice that you can be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia without being able to be the director of a public enterprise. I understand that you should delete it for the simple reason that you can, with more in vain you can be Prime Minister, but with more in vain, since you have no college, you did not finish it, as he says – you do not have it; then you can't be the director of a public enterprise and not even in the village of Colonel, and you can't do some work, not even a member of the Supervisory Board can you be. And for a member of the supervisory board of the last communal company, you must have a college education. That's why I believe my colleague's stomach is doubled. The first pick-up for that, and the second one is because the censorship is far, far, far away than the Serb army was from Serbia when it was...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50914	Please, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50915	Wait a minute, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50916	You must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50917	I'm back on the amendment. So, the director has to be a qualified person, he must have a graduate college, and that's why my fellow farmer gets cold, otherwise he says one big lie. He said – today is Wednesday 23 February. Today is Wednesday February 24th, and one day, one mistake in agricultural work can do a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50918	Thank you. The 25th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50919	Public enterprise director, whose founder is Serbia's appointment to the government for a period of four years, etc. and, of course, it is another pointless formulation that should convince us that for the first time in history, never before is the director of a public enterprise, the founder of which Serbia is elected by the Serbian government. Of course it's an old form, that and those who don't remember, and those who try to remember, but they have legitimate problems, of course it's always been. I would like the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, my colleagues, to like it whether I like it or not, to know at least some of what their job is. Public enterprises in Serbia have existed in the people's Republic of Serbia since 1945, which is a little more than 50, 45 or I don't know how many years. The problem is that we are now coming to define in the middle of the night things that are defined in a natural way, there is a natural right, not only the right to which some people who have no idea right are called, but there is some natural right. I'm not talking about anyone, I'm not talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50920	You're talking to Mr. Zivkovic. You said you loved some, you hated some. You talk about economic law, you talk about everything, you don't talk about amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50921	And who are you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50922	I'm afraid I have to rule you out. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Who are you to forbid me? What part of your life allows you to forbid it? What part of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Serbian Parliament qualify you to interrupt me? Besides being nervous, since you're the only one left to sit... ) According to article 106, if you do not know the Rules of Procedure, I can read it to you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I know, but you don't know. You don't know much, you know something that isn't commendable... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You do not know the order of the ride. It's not worth it with you, Mr. Zivkovic. I think one of the MPs was right when he said you came from the party. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You should be arrested! You're one of the most common bastards! Please, Mr. Maritovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: first you to catch me! Mr. Zivkovic, we had a normal session until you arrived. We had a normal and cultural session until you came from a celebration to act like you were in a bar. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You had a good session with him?- I'm sorry. Mr. Zivkovic, I'm going to have to give you a heads-up so we can continue the session. I must, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: "Don't yell at me!" That's what he's talking about. Serbian citizens see how you behave. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50923	Mr. Becic, there's a comic book where generations of adults have grown up reading it. That comic book is called Alan Ford, and there's a guy named Super Hick in Alan Ford, so I can see that there are some guys here who could match that hero from Alan Ford. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, for the sake of truth, the first Law on Public Enterprises to define the existence of public enterprises was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1991 after the December elections. Before that, there were various socialist self-managements, various SIZs, SOURs,OURs and such an organisation. But the first Law on Public Enterprises, which introduced public enterprises into our legislation, into Serbian legislation, was adopted in 1991, not 200 or 50 years ago. It is sad that one Prime Minister or former minister, or formerly whatever, does not know what these things are, the basic knowledge of our legislative system.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50924	I thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50925	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 25, if I'm not mistaken, because this too much noise on the right is obviously a lack of knowledge. In point 1, point 1. tells the director that the person is full-time and businessly capable. For years and for years and for business, especially the business ability, this is already the reason why a member should be asked to be deleted. Point two, where are you going upside down on my fellow farmer? He says he has acquired a higher education in basic studies for at least four years. That wasn't in Macedonia at his time. It was a higher one that, by the way, lasted only two years. Now someone was Prime Minister, and it can't be what I was already saying, and you interrupted me. He can't be a director or even a board member. I believe he's resourceful in economic law. But, I suggest, please, everyone who you know, because he says the director should have a college in his one-time class, I ask you to find him an old timer college that's a little over the top, so he gets that high education, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50926	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 25th amendment. Mr Dejan Radenkovic submitted to the 25th amendment. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. A group of MPs, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 25th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50927	Thank you. Article 25 deals with the regulation of conditions for the selection of a director of a public enterprise. One of the things that has gained great media attention is the provision of item 7 in item 1 which says that it is not a member of the political party's body, or that it has been given a standing position in the political party's body. It has been announced as a newspaper that will now lead to the depoliticalisation of the governance of public enterprises. Then I look at the old law, Article 22 of point 5, says, the same is said about conditions for the selection of directors, and says he is not a member of the political party's body, or that he is assigned to stay in office in the political party's body. I'd like to understand the difference now. There's no difference. Well, then how's the president of P.O.P.P.P.S. Director? How is Mr. Bajatovic, Vice-President of the SPS, the director of "Srbijagas"? Were the laws passed in 2013 respected? (Zoran Babic, from the post: And what happened in 2008? ) Mr. Arsic, I ask you to calm down the MPs so they do not receive me. Is it respected? This law applies, Mr. Minister, and is not respected. And now you're saying, we're gonna respect this new law. Well, how can we trust you? What is this lie in a sea of lies? Now we need to believe that this will be respected and not respected until today. We have suggested that it stands out that the Director cannot be a member of the political party or perform the role of the political party's body. You, refuting our amendment, have said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill's solution achieves the goal, which is to depolitise public enterprises. Is this how you achieved your goal, respecting the same point of law that exists so far? How do you think someone believes you'll be respected now? I think the citizens of Serbia should know that this law is another delusion of the government and the whole departisation story, professionalisation is one big delusion, because this law says, among other things, in this article - the director should have acquired a higher education. Well, half the SNS directors can't get through this, those people didn't get an education, they bought diplomas. Getting an education means going to school. So this is going to disqualify the entire John Nezbit university and the like. There's no one getting an education, there's a buyout.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50928	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50929	What I would like to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, and I would like to show by one example that they have treated public finances and public enterprises in this way, which is that the SNS decided on 5 August 2014 that anyone who has a double function does not have the right to perform a double function. Because of the decision, Mr. Martinovic resigned as chairman of the Galenika Management Board, Mr. Djukanovic resigned as chairman of the Management Board of the "State Lottery of Serbia", Mrs. Tomic resigned as the Management Board of the "Borbe". I resigned as chairman of the Laste Supervisory Board. Therefore, everyone responsible has resigned and has no dual functions, unlike the period when Mr Dusan Bajatovic was also the SPS vice president and MP and the director of "Srbigas". (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is today. ) It is also the time when the amendment promoter, who very rudely throws away, but cannot intimidate me or shut me up, voted for it, voted for what he now criticises. He voted for Dusan Bajatovic to also be the director of "Srbijagas", and the MP. Okay, he didn't vote to be the vice president of the SPS, but he made it possible for him to do all that, all that he's criticizing right now. He made it possible for him to do all that, all that he's criticizing right now. He allowed Bojan Pajtic to be the chairman of the Regional Government's Board of Directors of the Vojvodina Capital Investments Fund and the chairman of the Vojvodina Development Fund's Supervisory Board. You know, when they combine functions, it's all right, it's legitimate, it's democratic, it's perfect, it's good, and then when someone, showing responsibility to a public call, according to public functions, according to the property of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and resigning, if it doesn't fit, then they turn their heads to the other side, and when they did something like that? Never. Never would, but good will not, of course, be able to show something like that at all. Follow the example of the SNS. Take the example of what we did. We're not born in a chair, we're not even gonna end up there. We are not super glued to that armchair, as Bojan Pajtic tied himself to Banovina, although nothing works for citizens living in Vojvodina, and he only works for himself and his own.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50930	Mr. Djurishic, on what grounds do I ask you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50931	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50932	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50933	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50934	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50935	Replica, to Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50936	Mr. Babic only mentioned how elected directors were and how he acted when he had a double function, nothing more, or if you find it offensive that he said you look up to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50937	That really offended me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50938	That offends you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50940	Here, you have the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50941	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't have, I have to admit, a lot of time to commit, I found a member of the SNS in the Management Board of the Post, and we've been looking at this legacy farce for a year and a half with the president of the RIK, who, after that big SNS initiative, had resigned from the Assembly in 20th and August of 2014 and which, by the day of today, on February 24, 2016, was not put on the agenda. If we discuss the elections, i.e. the President of the Republic, in accordance with the Constitution, without the change of the RIK president, we will have RIK President, who among other things is the Head of the Government's Legislative Secretariat, a professor at the university, in some boards of directors, I don't know if he's accumulated from all that, in resignations. A question will be asked about the legitimacy of the election to be held in two months, and responsibility will be given to the irresponsible SNS policy, and not to anyone else. I'm on SNS, thank God, I'll never see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50942	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50943	A colleague is right when he said he had not prepared for this session, so he did not make that effort look and see where the MPs are, and where the officials are, and whether there are double functions among the members of the SNS. What's elemental ignorance, but I guess in some political hatred, I can't explain it all differently, now I've heard that RIK is a public enterprise. The Republic Election Commission is a public firm. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: It was. I don't know. It is known what RIK performs and what it does, but RIK is now presented as a public enterprise, so even Mr. Djurdjevic is resented that he is a professor at the Faculty of Law. Wait, do you want to take away his diploma? What's Bojan Pajtic? I didn't put that function next to this three, I'm not even the one who's in the shadows, because there's nothing going on in it either. Of course, I didn't want any single moment that Mr. Pajtic is a professor at Law School to represent it as a function, but I can see that it's for the previous speaker to function, so that we have to resign to what we are and what we have to call it. I think it's inadmissible and that it's more borderlined by elemental rudeness, not by any fact. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: The injuries of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50944	Who's hurt, Mr. Zivkovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50945	Article 106. I'm not worried about you, you're not hurt, but a member of 106 is injured. You hurt him, because the speaker, the first position of that member, can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Can you define a word that the previous speaker said to me, and that has anything to do with any part of the agenda, since this is a united debate, and especially about the Law on Public Enterprises, which is now under discussion? If you can catch one word that's longer than three letters and say it has anything to do with the subject, I will withdraw this request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50946	Just to answer to my colleague, Zivkovic, who is an experienced MP. I think it's a matter of tiredness, so that's why you've messed up, that's why I apologized, that's why you're discussing the amendment and the right to the replica. So, first, Mr. Djurisic spoke, answered his colleague Babic through a discussion on the amendment and caused a replica with Mr. Djurisic. I gave the right to a replica of Mr. Djurisic, after which, my colleague Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50947	No, no, he was talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50948	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50949	It's not? I'm sorry, but I don't think you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50950	Would you like the Assembly to come forward in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50951	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50952	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50953	Dear Minister, in the principle debate, in one part of your presentation, you discussed that the big problem of the existing legislation is precisely that the conditions for selecting a director have not been defined, or have not been, and that you have paid attention to that member. From my point of view, I can only say that I can never accept the thesis that we should be proud of the results of the SNS. You, in your explanation here, Mr Babić, have been given an explanation saying that in 2014 there was a loss in the economy of the Republic of Serbia of 131.8 billion dinars, which is four times more than in 2013. We've tried in this amendment, which we've given here, to point out the illogicalness to be defined in points 9 and 10 the way you've done it... This formulation, which, in my opinion, is far better and I am absolutely certain that you, from the experience you had in the work of the director at the local level and at some other local level, had to specify all of these things that you listed, especially in point 9, but I think that setting conditions for the selection of directors is in this way extremely bad, offensive and it would be good to have accepted our amendment, which in a far better way treats this issue. If you were talking about having to make someone mandatory if he's not being treated for drug abuse, alcoholism, not being a psychiatric patient, I think it's a far better formula that we listed in this article and that you should have accepted it. I think the experiences that we've all had together in the last three, four years should be in some way the guidelines that we should do and that this proposal is far better than yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50954	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50955	You suggested adding point 10, which would state that a practical person was not given a safety measure, a ban on performance. However, the reasoning set out in the basic law, i.e. in the Bill's proposal, is much broader in paragraph 25, and we have very detailedly explained each item and, in particular, in point 9, we have put five additional things. What you're proposing right now would mean exactly the opposite, that a man with psychiatric problems could be a director, that someone who's a drug addict or referred to a special hospital could apply for a director of a public firm and not list all of these five points we've put in. And you can't tell me – it's not true when it is. If you throw out the five points you put in Article 9 and you put in just a 10th extra, that's exactly what it means.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50956	So, what's the base of the team? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I think I was misread. ) Wrongly interpreted amendment, not you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50957	I think it's very important, these five or six things that you've listed here in an explanation aren't enough, if it's the context in which you spoke. So, if it's about determining the degree of crime that you had here as an intention to accentuate, there could be a series of other crimes. In my opinion, it's enough that you've called the criminal code and that we've delivered it in a later form. I think that if you think that way, it's a good idea to say that he didn't commit domestic violence, that he didn't have any thefts and a lot of other things. I think simply, these things you've had, it's not in the context of what you wanted to get. On the other hand, earlier and now there are medical examinations for competitive certain public functions and medical examinations mean that all of these conditions are met, that is to prove that the man was not a junkie, that he wasn't a treated alcoholic, that not all of what you've listed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50958	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 25th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50959	One more member of the law that irrevocably repeats the general known things. He says the director of a public company represents and represents a public company. Of course, like every CEO of any other company. To organize and manage the process of work, of course, as well as any director of any other company. To run the business of a public company, I don't know how different it is from organization and management. He runs the business, where does he lead, which way does he lead? He's responsible for the legality of work, so, of course, it's all in the Company Act. The company law also includes public enterprises. I think we agree, Mr. Minister? It doesn't? Where does the company law say it doesn't involve public enterprises? My question, once again, for the third time, I ask you not to defend yourself with silence, to tell me by what law the director of the public enterprise EPS can charge a fee for RTS? Where does that say? Is that under article 26 of this law, the 25th of this law, or is it somewhere in some decision that doesn't exist in any law, but in ordinary law? Just tell me how? I ask you for the fourth, fifth time, how can the EPS of Serbia charge a subscription to RTS, when it is registered only for electricity traffic, for electricity trade? What does electricity have to do with RTS, except, of course, as for these lamps, watching television requires electricity? But that's not why this company can take that responsibility. Answer me once, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50960	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50961	Your Honor, we spent a lot of time together here in December and we talked about a large set, a large number of laws. Many MPs gave their amendments, we talked about them, tried to improve them. One of the laws was also a law which defined and specifically regulated payment of RTS fees and fees for RTS as a public media service, and that law defined that in the next year the tax, above all, would be significantly lower than it was in the previous period and made an obligation to charge a tax on behalf of public services through that law, EPS for the next year. I don't know where you got the question, and how do you define it that you don't know how the EPS does it, when we're here, in this assembly, explain it? You've been making remarks, and you've also been making remarks about that law to delete, one, two, three, five members, I don't know how many, and now you're saying you don't even remember how that happened. To whom it is not clear and what, you can take the stenograms and see your speech, and you and Mr. Ambassador Pavicevic have commented on this law, you have also made remarks for each member to delete. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50962	Mr. Zivkovic, nothing is said or offended by Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I received five questions from the minister. He didn't ask you any questions. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Well, you didn't listen then. He asked five questions, how, where, why, when... ) Comrade Zivkovic, I will still protect the dignity of the MP and the National Assembly because I don't think the ministers can ask questions to the MPs. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Ali posted it. Here, no more. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the title above the members and the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50963	Article 27 defines the Institute of Executive Director appointed by the Director of Public Enterprise, so it says what he should do. My question to the Minister, and I have the right to ask the Minister, how is it that an executive director per article 27 can break the law and say that RTS or EPS can charge a subscription to RTS and RTS? What it says in some other law is insufficient. First, space must be created in a law that defines public enterprises, including EPS, to allow space to be able to transfer the right to collect claims. It doesn't say anything. Of course, constitutional protection will be sought and, of course, we'll make sure it takes as long as it takes. It's not a dilemma whether to charge or not, I mean no. The law has been passed to, okay, enforce the law, but enforce it legally. Let RTS charge a subscription to RTS. What's hard about it? What's complicated about it? Why would the EPS be more competent to charge a fee or to subscribe to RTS than RTS? Explain to me, you're a longtime businessman. You've been president of the PX, you should know a lot about it. I have no doubt that you know, only part of that knowledge you give to me and the citizens of Serbia to figure out how RTS is unable to charge a subscription for its services, if they exist or the TV, and how can it charge an EPS which, as far as I know, doesn't record any TV program or broadcast a diary?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50964	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50965	Dear Vice-President Arsic, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that no amendment be adopted for a simple reason because what the motionaries are talking about has not been proposed at all. They have proposed to delete itself, which means that the executive directors are also deleted. So, the amendment is unsustainable, not to say meaningless, provoking, negative, non-transparent, etc. Why would they suggest that? For the simple reason that there would be chaos and lawlessness in public enterprises, because they were the best to pass. Their former regime director, in a public enterprise, alienated 310, along with his colleagues, 310 million in Belgrade for which they were sentenced for 73 years. One of the amendment's proposings has estranged from the budget of this country's Republic of Serbia 530m just because it was calamating the vine on the grass. Therefore, they advocate that directors should not be appointed, i.e. to delete this amendment. I really expect, Mr. Vice President, that the amendment promoter, having offended me at first, made a lie at the beginning of the session, having not finished, to apologize to me here. If not on behalf of nothing, then on behalf of academic integrity, at least minimum and civil responsibility. I suggest not to accept the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50966	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50967	Not going into what reasons led the predecessor to bring out complete untruths, nominal, characteristic, qualifications. So, 500 million, I don't know what...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50968	Please, just tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50969	Article 108, of course. I don't know what a man's talking about. I'd like to help him, but it's not in my jurisdiction. It's in your jurisdiction, Mr. Vice President. You need to help him, tell him – stop, man, you're falling, you're talking about things you don't know, you're talking about values that don't exist, or if there are, you're not qualified to define them. I apologize to anyone, especially him? About what? What qualification? Who took the money? Where are 300 million, 500 million? What else did he say? So that's one galamatias word, one salad very ugly. Here's even the minister can't handle it, but he's coming out so he can calm down. I ask you to put the debate in order and help a colleague before me who also has a hyper-quick attack sometimes other attacks that are really problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50970	Comrade Zivkovic, I think you've gone too far in the last few sentences. Zoran Zivkovic throws. ) I will read to you, counterpart Marko Atlagic expressed himself to the applicant of the amendment, to this member, the applicants of the amendment are Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Balsa Bozovic and master of Aleksandar Jerkov. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I was the only one who spoke.) So, I'm not... The applicant for the amendment said, no - the previous speaker. So I... Zoran Zivkovic throws. ) If you have identified yourself with what your colleague Atlagic was saying, it is quite your problem, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50971	Ladies and gentlemen, I now suggest that special attention should be directed towards the position of 2nd Article 101. The rules of procedure in which he writes - the president of the National Assembly can set a break in the work of the National Assembly session. Mr. Arsic, I respect you as the chairman of the National Assembly. It seems to me now that it is time to set a minimum break of half an hour, because on the basis of Mr Atlagic's speech, I have concluded that one fatigue occurred, the same words, the same sentences are repeated, and a small number of SNS deputies present here are present...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50972	I understand my colleague Pavicevic, but you know what, I have to apply the same standard to all MPs. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I agree. ) You agree, so that my colleague Atlagic, I do not want to influence this and what his discussions are, as I have not interrupted your colleague and our colleague, Zoran Zivkovic, who has already talked several times about the subscription and the EPS, and has nothing to do with the amendment. So I'm very intolerant about that. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50973	Dear Vice President, a member of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly because Mr. Zivkovic insulted, let me say, my smallness to the team more than he gave faceless lies. I said it was a public enterprise in Belgrade where the judicial verdict was 310 million dinars, and for which the responsible persons were sentenced for 73 years and I can verify that. So they're not lies. I said that one of the amendment's proposings had estranged from this budget 530,000 euros just because he was calamating the vine on the grass. As far as personal insults are concerned, to what he said, I mean really, I openly say that since Mr. Zivkovic came in late, not to say an hour ago, I don't think that since he doesn't know where the Squawk is used to do it really, and should be checked out, about a drunk man. That's why Mr... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50974	Please, colleague, I just interrupted you at the same time that I interrupted a colleague like Zivkovic. I would ask you to stop the things that disturb the dignity of the National Assembly and this whole discussion that has been under way raise questions whether or not we will continue on normal work or we will act irresponsiblely and unhealthyly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I advertise Article 109, which among other things says that the reminder is given to the People's MP if he uses swearing and offensive expressions. If someone tells someone that they've had a hyper-square attack and in such a way very ugly expressions about a national MP's dialect, and the equinox is a Serb dialect, among other things, and that's how people speak Serbian and the way people write and read, it's particularly expressed in the trans-Serbs who have brutally and tragically suffered in the last 20 centuries. As someone whose ancestors come from there, I am deeply offended. I don't think of saying the words of the Zamfir's Zone, whose sponsor was my fellow farmer and thus insulting those who have a different dialect and who speak in different ways in the same Serbian language. I don't think we're here to share. That it should be precisely because of the tragic 20 centuries of this people that we have understanding, especially for those banished, exiled, refugees, tragic victims of the 20th century, that we should not divide, that we should be gathered together and if we have ideological differences, politically. If we can't reconcile dead ancestors, I guess we can't fight today's generation and future descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50976	I thank my colleague Rističević. I really cannot influence what an MP will say in the first sentence when he begins to violate the Rules of Procedure or the dignity of the National Assembly. According to the amendment, MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50977	Thank you. I will return to the amendment and say that the amendment has been submitted to Article 27. Proposal for a law, and Article 27 regulates the questions of the Executive Director. Of course, the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that Article 27 is in the proposed law, and I must return to the beginning, that the Law on Public Enterprises is an innovative member precisely because it accurately and precisely regulates the responsibilities of the Executive Director, and unlike the previous law by which the Executive Directors were adopted under the proposal of the Supervisory Board, this Member of the Law is the one who proposes and elects the Director because the responsibility is personalised and because the full responsibility for the work of the Public Undertaking has a director, which is later seen in those criminal and criminal provisions. Also, I must say that the amendment should not be accepted for the reason that Article 27 provides that the public undertaking may have up to seven executive directors, which is, unlike what was in the previous law, and what savings, and what an increase of responsibility both the director and the executive directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50978	Thank you. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50979	Dear Chairman, the minister has no intention of asking him to understand this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask to ensure working conditions. It's a very serious amendment. Our amendment to Article 27 implies two serious changes, which would contribute to improving the functioning of public enterprises and lead to what the minister is talking about all the time of the debate. This is, for one thing, in point 6 to add, i.e. after point 6 that in Article 27, in Article 1 after the term “6” is added to the number “7”, excellently, Mr Minister, which refers to party membership, because in point 7 of Article 25. - that he is not a member of the political party's body, or that he is assigned to stay in office. So, if one is an executive director, it must also be referred to by this clause as a director, not as a member of any political party or as a member of any function. The second objection was to the number of executive directors. We felt it took up to three executive directors to have every public firm, because every major number would not be rationalization, because in the previous law, which you also proposed and which was adopted, we had seven executive directors. So you don't recognize the new quality in the functioning of a public enterprise, or in the legal solution you've offered. So we're against the executive directors being, they can be party personalities, and that opens up the possibility of full politicisation. If this amendment is not adopted, we will have a completely clean situation - the elected director by the government, which will place up to seven executive directors from its political party. So it has absolutely nothing to do with what you're talking about, and I don't think it's right for you to answer that that's not a whole argument and that you have a more comprehensive solution. I think it's completely arrogant one explanation that is not meaningful and is not in service of the truth and functioning of the future of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50980	Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50981	Ladies and gentlemen, in preparation for the amendment to Article 28 of this bill, we have come from three thesis, Mr Sertic. First thesis, we want a free market at work in our country. Another thesis, we want to abolish the monopoly of the company in production, transport, sales of goods, which can be exchanged on the market. Third thesis, liberalisation of the market. Article 28 is essentially the opposite of our thesis, dear Mr. Sertic. Because in Article 28, we now have two attitudes concerning the actions of so-called executive directors. Instead of what we are fighting for, which is part of our system of ideas, beliefs, values, opinions, through this member with the content of Article 27 and Article 29, we will actually, by adopting this bill, strengthen the partial system in our country. Mr. Marinkovic was very well noted, here all day long talking about how some people will have to freeze party functions, those people who want to be directors of public enterprises, and here these same directors of public enterprises, Mr. Sertic, will be able to choose up to seven of their executive directors, who will not be subject to those restrictions in terms of action in their party, which apply to the director. So, all these executive directors, who have never existed this defined before, will be able to be all these people who, for example, are activists in political parties, prominent officials. This completely loses the importance of eliminating the party's membership of the director, the Partocratic system is being consolidated. For me, it's a step away from reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50982	Time, fellow Pavicevic. The 29th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50983	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is a rare opportunity for me to speak twice in a row like this. If Mr. Becic had the presidency, I think he would have eliminated it automatically. So, it's very good that you, Mr. Arsic, are the chair of this session, so that we can discuss our amendments in an appropriate way. Our amendment to Article 29 is directly related to the amendment to Article 28, Mr Sertic. But there's one addition. This consolidation of the Partocratic system through the installation of executive directors, which can be people from the political party, predominantly, in this case of the Serbian Progressive Party, we now have one addition to that party. Here, in attitude 1, says – the director and executive director have the right to earn money, and they can also have the right to stimulate, gentlemen respected. Well, we hear daily, ministers, members and members of this government talking about saving, about the necessity of saving. People shrink and earn money to save, and it says here – they can have the right to stimulate. In the next position, it writes – The government will lay down the conditions and criteria for determining and the level of stimulation set out in Article 1, paragraph 1. So, to those seven executive directors, who can be party people, all of them will have the right to stimulate. Mr. Sertić, I'm sorry that you're giving up your words. I'm very sorry that we don't have a government that sticks to the word, gentlemen, and that doesn't stick to one of the most important principles in modern politics, which is the principle of ethics of responsibility. That politics is measured by results and that when word is given, it has to stick to it. We don't have that here. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50984	Time, fellow Pavicevic. Don't, colleague Pavicevic, let them give themselves up in advance. Now there's an election, so maybe you're following this bill, or you're already... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: We will change him first. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As short as possible. Unfortunately, another sad indicator of how understanding is, or not understanding, what is spoken of and how well it is known, actually does not know the content of the law that is being commented on. Not to be accepted, because everything we've heard has nothing to do with reality. The one who proposes to delete every member of the bill, in fact, is, is, in fact, rooting for the law that is currently in force, which says, among other things, what was already controversial, that the Director and the Executive Director have the right to earn money. It would also remain in force because it is the content of the law that is currently in place. Stimulation, and that determines the government, and that and those executive directors up to seven, amazingly, and it is written in a law that is currently in force, for which, what now is now, the amendment promoter cheers. I don't think he actually knows exactly what he wants, except for the few seconds he can get him a direct transmission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50986	The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50987	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, we've asked that in Article 29, except for the sentence of the Director and the Executive Director have the right to earn the entire rest of the expropriation. That's this part, we've heard now, about the stimulation, about how that stimulation is determined, about who it is, how it's determined. The provision is also not new, it exists in the old law, Article 24 speaks of the possibility of paying off incentives, also predicts that the sublaw will set out the conditions and criteria for determining and the level of stimulation. I failed, Mr. Minister, to find that regulation, I don't know if it exists. What is interesting in the final provisions of this law is not mentioned anywhere in the deadline for the adoption of this sublaw. I'm asking you, when and if you think you're bringing it at all, because we heard and knew that the government under the austerity policy has cut salaries and pensions, and now they want the directors to reward the party executives to reward some of the incentives based on the criteria the government itself will set. Well, that's where it's likely that brothers, godfathers and others can get rewards, they can spend any money they want, but some others won't. Also, this law is unclear because it is unclear whether the government criteria will determine for all public enterprises and for those who are the founder of the Republic of Serbia, but also for those who are the founder of an autonomous province, i.e. local self-government. So we think that this article is unclearly written, that it's confused, that it's not in line with government policy, with economic savings measures, and that's why this whole part of stimulation needs to be erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50988	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 30th Amendments in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50989	The procedure for the appointment of the Director shall be defined from Articles 30 to 42. This Article 30 reads – Director of Public Enterprise is appointed after a public competition. It would be logical to say that the director is elected after the results of the competition, so that it is known who won the competition, according to which rules, where the competition is published, who can report, what qualifications. But it's not true, it's not happening, but when we get to Article 42, then we'll see that three candidates from I don't know how many have come forward, if one comes forward, it's hardly going to be three possible, but three candidates are giving the government a decision, which completely devises the whole process. That means you're not choosing the best candidate in the competition, but you're forming a commission. That commission works, so the commission announces, so the commission has a deadline, then a traveller. Once again, this comes to Article 42 where the government decides who will be the director of the public enterprise. So we have 12 members of the law that are a pure form of waste of time and that ends by choosing the one who will be proposed by someone who is powerful in that government or three who will propose three of the largest parties in the coalition that will win after the next elections. Whatever the coalition is, it's inadmissible. Complete inaccuracy in defining conditions for competition and the selection of directors of a public enterprise. Then you'll hear from the directors who had the roasters, who didn't have the roasters, who were co-workers on the roasters, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50990	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for not accepting for the same reasons as before. It seems that any one of the motions to explain his proposal suffers from a lack of recognition of the content of what he proposes, what he deals with. An interesting observation on the subject of a waste of time, and perhaps we could also call this proposal and an explanation. We want to erase something, and the same thing is in the law that would remain in force in case we wipe it all out. Unserious to the limit, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50992	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I owe an apology to the Minister, present MPs for the explanation of my fellow farmer. Namely, it's about Article 30. – Director is appointed on the basis of a public competition. In further members, it is elaborated, perhaps written with a chav, so it may be a little distasteful, it is a letter from Jovan Ducic, Nikola Tesla. What are Jovan Ducic and Nikola Tesla, for him, go run. But what I meant to say is, there is a clear commission in further members -- who can make a commission, how the first three candidates are elected, how they propose the first candidate for director, etc. I don't think it takes much school and a lot of literacy. You don't need to go around school much, you should have gone to school more. What are you going to do, these Polish works, over here, over there, there was no time, so little lagging behind, so it lagged behind in reading this law. I don't know who wrote the amendments and didn't tell them well or they didn't get a message on the phone that the next members had detailed how the first three candidates were selected on the basis of the competition carried out, the first proposed director, etc. So I owe you all an apology, which, by night, is so hard, and when a man comes back, he sweats, takes off his jacket, it already affects his psychophysical abilities, and that's why I apologize for the actions of my fellow farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50994	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50995	Thank you. Amendment relating to Article 30. The bill, which has been submitted and which reads, is deleted, of course it should not be accepted. Why? Because Article 30 in a detailed, precise and clear manner has laid down the procedure for the appointment of the Director. In fact, not only Article 30, but also all the subsequent members of the laws resulting from this article, a transparent procedure for selecting a director has been established. The procedure is conducted through a public competition, but the amendmenter appears to have read further members of this law where it is clearly and precisely stated that the public competition is being published in the "Official Messenger" or another vote on the territory of local self-government or autonomous province, to be published on the website of the founder or the Government of the Republic of Serbia or local self-government or autonomous province. It is also fully transparent that the candidate can have an insight into the documentation and that this commission is obliged to allow each candidate to see the documentation. Given transparency, clarity, precision, the proposed amendment is incomplete and should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50996	On behalf of the members and members of the 31st Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50997	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 31 because it is contained in Article 31, so it obviously shows us that one government is doing from what it says it will do. We are constantly faced with messages coming from the government that it is necessary to change our minds, to change some principles in order to focus on modern democracy, and then with the contents of Articles 31, 32 and 33 concerning the selection process of directors, here is Mr. Martinovic, who is now responding here, a part-time system. What does the Partocratic system mean? That means, if we have installed a partial system here, it means that the rewards are not due, gentlemen, but on the basis of the party's belongings and the ruling one. And then when it comes to power, then it's said that it has everything, and this appointment procedure for the director is exactly that, gentlemen. I felt that when the Prime Minister, when members of the government care to speak, we should change our minds, we should change some principles, then we should be in a legislative procedure to refer legislative projects that will confirm such a commitment, not to do what they do, Mr Sertic, the government does the opposite of what its members keep saying. And then beyond that, to come across here one hour of MPs, who support the government whatever it says, and even if in two days it changes what it said two days ago, which was the case last week, gentlemen of honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50998	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u50999	Mr. Chairman, for the sake of truth, I will read Article 31. – public competition is conducted by a commission to conduct competitions for the selection of directors, in the following text of the commissions. The Commission may, under one, be the Commission of the Government, the Autonomous Province Commission, the unit of local self-government. Where's the partocrat here? So, where's the partocrat here? What follow-up? Well, I guess we're talking about Article 31. Well, I guess we're talking about Article 31. When the Proposer doesn't know which member he proposed the amendment to, or when he doesn't know what he's talking about, he's talking more about the amendment promoter. On the other hand, I can understand, Mr. Minister, I can understand the amendment's proposing and why they're fighting against partocracies, as they say. Look, when you have a party of two members and they're both in Parliament, they have no one to carry out this and they can delegate someone, so they don't have anyone. So, I totally understand why they want to delete this member, but so do all the other members. This concept of super-hic and other brothers will be spoken more in the context of the next amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51000	Right on line, MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51001	Well, here I am now going to explain to Mr. Babic on the basis of which I was entitled to the replica and that Mr. Arsic has done indeed now, strictly following the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. I'll always say that. Whoever, from whatever party to chair the session of the National Assembly. So, Mr. Babic, here a little while ago, he said I was one of two members of the NS. Forgetting, here at the speeches Mr. Zivkovic and myself, and also at the speeches of your party president, Mr. Vukic, who, with great respect, spoke of a member of the NS Council, who is called Vesna Rakic Vodalić. The most respected legal authority in legal science with us, gentlemen. Here, let me hear if Mr. Martinovic is okay with it. Mr. Vukic said that twice when he just talked, if you don't believe me, do you trust the president of your party, Mr. Babic? In addition to Ms Vesna Rakić Vednelic, I could now by noon tomorrow, and still, list and list the names, members and members of the NS, activists, members of NS's resolution councils, for example, here is now to tell you the one with which I prepared myself to discuss "Belgrade on Water", during which we beat you to the feet, with the power of arguments, respected gentlemen, Marin Kresic, I prepared the slides here to prove that "Belgrade on Water" is an anti-modernisation project and we convinced you, only it was not to be said by members of the ruling coalition. So I ask you with respect to the members and members of other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51002	On what basis are you looking for a replica, Mr. Zivkovic? As party president? Well, you can't both, so I gave it to your colleague Pavicevic. Don't be at the end of your heart. Right on the line, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51003	Very short, Mr. Arsic. With all the effort, the previous speaker listed two other members, a total of four. Here I admit to those four, we're going to add four more votes to how many they're going to get and three to the cards, so a dozen votes, that's about it, because I don't believe they can vouch for family members, not at all. In the building, they wouldn't even pass for home counsel, let alone for something more. Today I have learned and thank you, that this party, has four members and I respect and respect, as well as all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but today we have learned that this party has four members, and thank you for seeing what capacity it is and what potential it is, that can swing Serbia and take it, I don't know where, but here I have learned, for all four members, I know them by heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51004	Right on the line, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51005	As president of this party, I'll let you know that the current number of members is somewhere around ten thousand, whether it's 9,000 or something, or 10.023, I won't swear. I look forward to a previous colleague showing respect for the members of the New Party. I show respect for the members of the SNS, whether there are 10, 20, 50 or 100,000 SNS in Serbia, 200,000 SNS... .. As many as there are, I respect you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51006	Comrade Zivkovic, I ask you to point your discussions in the direction of being absolutely clear. I'm not a SNS man, I'm a member of the SNS, anyway. Like you're not an NSR, you're the president of the New Party. Right on the line, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51007	Mr. Arsic, I understand when these evaporations break the tongue a little bit, and then the man becomes a little braver, you know, when the Muds reach and win a man, then he can say anything, but I'm not going to do and put an equal sign between us. How many times over the past two years have we been exposed to various insults, threats, most ugly names. I know that the happiest colleague would be if I fought back with the same measure, and then I'd be like him. SNS isn't like that. I'll repeat, I respect all four members of the New Party and I'll never call them names. I will never call them "stoco", as the party's president called us, I will never call them "primatima", as the party's president called us. I will never call them "bad guys", as the president of the party called us, and I will respect every man, whether he was a member of the SNS or not, whether he is a sympathiser or not, he is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia deserves respect. The fact that someone's playing some hero by insulting someone else and demeaning you is more about you, Mr. Zivkovic, which is more about your culture and about the hopelessness you're in... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51008	Please, Mr. Granny... . Time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51009	... about political hatred, it won't lead you anywhere to power, ever again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51010	Thank you, colleague Granny. Since I see that many people are in the mood for work and in such small hours, and that the situation is complicated by discussion in accordance with Article 112, I set a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted the same text. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51012	The title is the Commission of Government, and Article 32 defines the precise democracy of the election of the director of public enterprises. And, behold, there are five members of the government's commission, of which the president and two members, as the Serb three members would say, are appointed by the government for a period of three years, and one member by two-thirds of those present is appointed by the Committee of the National Assembly, responsible for business affairs. That means the same ruling majority. One member shall be appointed by the Government for each individual appointment of the Director. So, of the five members, five members are appointed by the government's democratic procedure. It's really one big democratic contribution to the development of the governance of public enterprises, and it's really one phenomenal thing. I am not sure that all MPs of the ruling majority will understand this complicated, decadent, democratic way of electing members of the commission. But to try and help them, it's all called the government. And since we know that in Serbia we have the smallest government in the history of humanity that has one member and one 15 extras around it, then I am inclined to conclude that this commission will appoint the Prime Minister, only until the election, I hope in April or early May of this year. After that, of course, this law will be repealed, we'll go back to that old law. And one normal government, not advanced, but normal, not radical, but one normal government after that will try to keep the level of public enterprises to a minimum, to bring the management of these companies in a manner that is decent, and that means that it is not stolen, that not the most incompetent roasters in the ruling party are forced to do so, but to be there...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51013	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is in the end not to be stolen, it was really moving, since it came from my colleague. But let's take it in a row. It's called a commission, a transparent selection process. Watch out, pick the director. Public procurement stores don't go until later. But let's see how transparent that was when my fellow farmer asked himself, or when he was a federal interior minister, a businessman. Well, if I can get a wrinkle, I can do that. But, look at the wonders, a contest has been called for the sale of the CK building. It lasted 30 days. A commission has been appointed, but only after the competition has passed. Seventeen days after the end of the competition. That's what this committee was like. Watch out now, the federal interior minister isn't responding to that. He reacts to a small defence, based on the contest, based on documentation not received by the commission, but only when the competition was closed, 17 days later, was decided to sell the building. One draft contract came to the Federal Attorney's Office, which drew the federal government's attention to shortcomings, and the other contract was signed entirely, not the one approved by the federal defence. All along, the federal police minister was my fellow farmer. Let's move on. It's time to sign the contract. I guess those companies were supposed to be ranked MK, so let's move on. Participants in the June contest who did not give the documentation to the competition commission, because there was no deal, which was to be signed, did not pass the federal defence. It was signed by the company. Do you know which one? In December, a firm that was founded 15 days earlier, a company that did not exist at the time of the competition. Now, that was also transparent about it, not to mention me, written by Pistalska, freely you who understand the Internet find this affair of the Ustec building and you will find that it was sold for the price of aluminum hanging on the windows, and later the City of Belgrade with the former regime took a step further and donated an even larger area of building land, so that the profits of those who bought that building were multiple. Now, speaking of the fourth member, I have to plead there. I thought it was a condition for a party registration to have 10,000 members before you register it. This is the first time I've heard that someone got a ten thousandth member a month ago and registered two years ago. So they themselves admit that their registration is a fake. I listened very carefully, so I didn't go to the cafes, so unlike my colleague, I could tell the difference. In the end, Vesna Rakic Vednelic claimed recently that they were not a member of any party. This is where they put it in the party of those who advocate against partocratism, at least that's what they said. Look at the wonders, the lady was a member of the High Court Council. You can imagine the kind of reform or deformity of our judiciary, when it played some judicial role, I may have made a mistake, but it must have worked in the judiciary and now suddenly a member of the party. That means we have to imagine whether they're for the party judiciary, whether they're for the party or not, but all I've said is that the good advice I'm trying to give my fellow farmer, as a donation to the organ, if the endangered organism doesn't accept it, is all for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51015	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51016	Mr. Chairman, completely unacceptable, I would say a pointless amendment and a pointless desire to delete the said member and does not deserve any comment and does not deserve this kind of discussion, but to report to me, most of all, the oral explanation of the amendment promoter and the invitation not to steal, and this is what the amendment promoter says. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, to show everyone, I found an interesting flyer in the mailbox this morning. On it is a politician sitting with us here in this hall, proposing an amendment with a glass of wine in his hand, with the title – how it is, so I won't read his last name, how he became a millionaire.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51017	Please, colleague Markovic, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51018	It's about the amendment. So, the amendment promoter is in his oral explanation why he wrote the amendment – he was deleted, used, among other things, one syntagma and the invitation not to steal. So now I'm making a parallel with it, where it says -- what can be done for 41 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51019	You can't do that, Mr. Markovic. Don't do that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51020	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51021	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted the title above the members and members of the 33rd amendment. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51022	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 33 because we have noticed that it is also contained in Article 33. The draft law on public enterprises maintains and not only maintains, but also strengthens the partocratic system under advanced authority in our country, respected gentlemen. This means that in vain, the invitation to Webber, Mr Sertic, to the Libnica is respected gentlemen, to Roosevelt, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, when we arrive here with legislative projects that are contrary to the messages of these great people in history, gentlemen. Here's what's going on here. Let's imagine a man neutral, not knowing what's going on here, reading how a commission is supposed to run a competition to elect a director. And what does he see from the members of both the 33rd and the 32nd and 31st till the 40th? See that the government here is everything and that there is one approach that when you take that power, there is no obstacle, no control, you can do whatever you want. The Progressive Government rests on it, and this legislative project is proof of that. I considered it appropriate to point to one of the great principles of every modern democratic state regarding the amendment to Article 33, and when someone calls on Weber, Libernica, people who have dealt with the political theory to know that there is one great principle in every modern democratic state, which is the principle of power-sharing. When you take power, it's not all yours. That power should be shared, that it has good control and obstacles to absoluteism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51023	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51024	Very short. I don't know when he learned better about the principles of the amendment policy, with white sheets, Jovu Kapičić, or with his colleague here from the parliamentary benches? I don't know where he could learn more from, with Jova Kapicica, white leaves or here, from a colleague of Mr. Marijan Risticevic? 3Better learnt about the principles of the amendment policy, with white sheets, Jovu Kapičić, or now with his colleague here from the parliamentary benches? I don't know where he could learn more from, with Jova Kapicica, white leaves or here, from a colleague of Mr. Marijan Risticevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51025	Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted a name above the members and members of the 34th amendment. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51026	And here, now, in the third level of government, so we had proof at the level of government at the level of the Republic that it's a little complicated, so as someone chooses, someone chooses, when you look at it better, everything chooses the government. In the province, that's what the majority chooses. In local self-government, it says the same thing here, a commission of local self-government has five members, one of whom is president. So this one is different from these others, and they're all from the ruling party. It's like having a party activist who had been handing out some flyers two years ago and putting in boxes, and then he got to be a member of the ruling party in the Serbian Parliament, and he didn't open his mailbox for two years, and then what he put in, and then maybe he couldn't read, in the meantime he learned all the letters, became an MP, opened the mailbox and discovered...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51027	Mr. Zivkovic... (Zoran Zivkovic, from place:... that there's a president or vice president who'll take my word for it. Mr. Zivkovic, so don't say that, the election's in two months. Don't give up. You told your voters in advance that you would lose the election. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I think you are intellectually at the level of Aleksandr Markovic, which is not good. I'm glad you're not an expert on that. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51028	Thank you. It's going to be an amendment anyway. They didn't deserve a word to be devoted to these nobly provoking motionaries. So, what are these proposed? What do these accomplish? So, what in God's name does this even understand, since we're talking about understanding? It is astounding that this debate is taking so long, and that some people insist on being thrown out as unacceptable things to wipe out the whole proposal and, consequently, remain in force by the law that implies the same things. Well, it's not clear enough, and it seems to some people that something here is persistently, chronically not clear, they're still saying it. One day when everything changes, the law that is now in force will come back. So, what about him? Just what's bothering these people, they're the only ones who know why. So something praises and wherever at the same time, they call for it as good, and nothing's wrong with it, and everything's bad. I can only conclude, ladies and gentlemen, some here are not as bad as they think. Actually, as far as they think, they're fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51029	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51030	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to go by the Rules of Procedure. But my colleague, a farmer, in his explanation, was deeply offended by individual MPs, especially Mr. Alexander Markovic. I believe he didn't read the proposal to the end and now he's convinced himself. I warned him before three or four members, before the 10 amendments, that there was a commission, that there was a procedure, that there was a choice, etc. Knowledge doesn't justify it. What we know, a drop in the sea of ignorance. However, it also has a sea of ignorance and seas so-called. the knowledge he most likely obtained in the way he insulted the MPs. I'm afraid he got it when he immunized the chickens in the village of Pukovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51031	I ask my fellow Members to respect each other. National MP Nejko Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 34a be added after article 34a. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51032	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will explain my amendment, with the previous one note that I am telling Mr. Arsic that he may reconsider his right that follows from Articles 101 and 112. The Rules of Procedure might take another break, because the minister's tired, he's not here, he must need a break. Where is he? Look where it is. I thought it was Vienna. It's Becic's place. Also, Mr. Arsic, so the minister wants to turn into MPs, and the opposition in the next session, which is good, Minister Sertic, I think. I'm seeing a decrease in the number of SNS MPs, and the fatigue has arisen, and the fatigue has prevailed. Mr. Arsic, our MPs of the New Party are 100% here, we are here, ready to discuss as long as it takes, and I don't think there are so many SNS MPs, I think even 15%. Now, Mr. Arsic, I think it would be appropriate to consider. I'm not saying I'm right, but to consider taking a break, to rest a little of the SNS MPs. I'm ready, of course, to discuss... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51033	Comrade Pavicevic, I had to interrupt you in order to explain some of the rules in parliament. The minister has already made a statement about your amendment and said it would not be accepted, so I'm telling you that you are wasting your time in advance to convince the minister to accept your amendment. You should convince your colleague Babic that he accepts your amendment. It's the MPs who decide. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Where is parliamentaryism? Confronting arguments? That's exactly what I'm talking about, Mr. Zivkovic. The MPs need to decide on the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Trust me. I'm the oldest MP since 1993) It's been nice, colleague Zivkovic, but I wouldn't brag about years, nothing else. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. You've got 45 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51034	So this was one of my proposals to remind members of 101 and 112 and, of course, I noticed one more thing, since we are talking about members of this bill concerning the election of directors. I have not noticed that any of the MPs here from the ruling coalition have made one argument against my argument that this legislative project strengthens the partocracy. Let's hear that argument, gentlemen. If I heard one argument, so let me imagine if I was wrong, if I misread it, whether my analysis was wrong, but not one. I'm asking you to discuss it in an argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51035	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51036	We have two MPs here, one of whom is not seen by the minister, and Mr Sertic is a corulent man and it is difficult not to notice him, and the other one sees two ministers from once. I don't know what they're on, but it's working.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51037	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51038	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, the honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, Article 35, speaks of the commission and says that the president and members of the commission of this law cannot be MPs, MPs in the assembly of the autonomous province, council members of local self-government units, as well as persons appointed in the bodies of the state administration, the authorities of the autonomous province or bodies of units of local self-government. We agree with that. We have suggested adding a new position that it says - members of the commission cannot be members of political parties, nor can they function in the political party's body. Mr. Minister, you have refused us the amendment in the following sentence, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposal will not contribute to the depolitisation of public enterprises. I mean, really, the one who wrote this argument, it's good for him. He really didn't read the law, he didn't read the amendments, or he messed up the papers. There's a problem here. We are talking about that the members of the commission cannot be members of political parties, nor can they function in the political party body, and you answer that the amendment is rejected because the proposed will not contribute to the depoliticalisation of public enterprises, given that the selection committee of directors of public enterprises must act in accordance with objective and clear criteria to be established by the sublaw. Well done. I've read everything you wrote. I have read everything, and it really has nothing to do with what we have proposed, so I ask you to reconsider and accept our amendment, because this will fulfill what all MPs are committed to doing, to depoliticalise the selection of directors and in people who will be in charge of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51039	Thank you. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51040	Another pointless member, who says the decision to conduct a public competition to elect a director of a public enterprise, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia's government. Very unusual. I expected the Patriarchy to make a decision about it, but there's the government, and then the ministry is responsible for it. Probably run by this self-inflicted minister, who sits there for a while, the hour doesn't sit anywhere, the hour disappears somewhere between, which some see two or three times, and they might look themselves in the mirror, and then says a public competition ad contains particularly information about a public enterprise. So I don't think you wrote it yourself, Mr. Minister. That someone helped you, someone from the SNS parliamentary group helped you to run a competition for the selection of the director of a public enterprise by defining what a public enterprise it is. Did you come up with that idea yourself or did someone help you? It seems to me that there are a lot of people who can help you come to such a brilliant conclusion, which is to be defined first, when a competition is called, which is a public enterprise. That's really fascinating. That's to tell you, for the first time in history. It never was. It's now and never before, so what business does that public enterprise, because that company does business. That's genius. Have you applied for the Nobel Prize for Economics or for public administration or for the one who helped you, double, triple, fivefold, drunk or sober, running for a large reward, so that we can improve not only the Serbian public enterprises and the public sector, but civilised to take a step forward and that when you call a competition you know exactly which company is the jurisdiction, or part of the company. That's genius. I'm proposing you for the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51041	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: Let's go get some blood.) Let's get some sobering. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: And you could go to more therapy. ) (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Let's get sober. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: First you could stop... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: You are for smoking. I ask fellow MPs to die. If they have anything to discuss, they don't have to get used to it all over the O.R., get out of the O.R. and make a deal. Comrade Rističević, please re-apply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51042	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to interrupt these unarticulated sounds made by my fellow farmer, not to say in what very strange state, and therefore I beg your forgiveness. But since it's a competition discussion. He got a little mixed up in there. What is in Article 36, what advert from the public competition should contain, is not meant for those who publish the competition but for those who want to apply to the competition. With them most likely that it would be formal, we publish and receive immediately or first receive, so we publish. Now he doesn't understand why he who writes the ad must write which public enterprise, that it contains data on jobs, conditions, appointment, place of work, professional skills, etc. This one competition must contain if it is a normal ad if, and this government has modernized all this, this authority has found 781 thousand people in the public sector. It's 50% more than Montenegro has residents. This government has found such a situation in the public sector that it has lived as it pleases and the people as it must. So she decided to seduce the order and decided to seduce the order and the competitions she had announced. So the ad is not meant for those who write it, but for those who need to read it so that they know which conditions they need to meet, to whom to report, which public enterprise is involved, for God forbid they can compete for the affairs of those immunizations in the village of Pukovac, as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51043	The 37th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandar Jerkov. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51044	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad Minister Sertic took his place, so we can see him running a dialogue here, not walking around in the O.R., because I could go there, over there and talk from all kinds of places. That wouldn't be appropriate, I think, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51045	Well, you can, but we haven't gotten any wireless microphones yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51046	There's no wireless, you wouldn't hear it. Well, if there is, come on. So, dear gentlemen, here's another member in which I have found yet another proof that the SNS from the position of government strengthens the Partocratic system in our country, and the Partocratic system is an absolutely unfair system. He rewards those who are obedient to his party, who are humble to their party, and do not reward those who deserve it. (Zoran Babic, from the place: And where is he? ) Here's the evidence, Mr. Arsic, as I see Mrs. Tomic, Mr. Babic is looking for proof. Here's one attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51047	Come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51048	Here, one attitude here to announce. It's a good thing these members are being read a little, seeing as they haven't been read. Here is what it says, for example, one, two, three, the fourth position of this member, says – untimely, incomprehensible and not all the necessary evidence, the Commission of the Government, again, rejects the conclusion against whom no specific appeal is allowed. Dear gentlemen, no mechanism of control of the process, no mechanism of authority of the government, no mechanism to question anyone who performs in the name of the government in this process, gentlemen. Is that what we want? Isn't that the partocrat I'm talking about about the last few amendments? Here, gentlemen, I offered an argument, cited a certain attitude. Now let me hear Mrs. Tomic or Mr. Babic or Mr. Orlic, to hear the contrary argument to this. Let's hear it. Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51049	Comrade Pavicevic, I am going to ask you to pay more attention to the amendment in some future presentation, because with full right MPs draw attention to me so that you do not adhere to the discussions on the amendment. I know it's not easy, but I'm asking you to get ready for that sort of thing. First of all, they have the right to a replica, they all have, you mentioned them all. First, MP Zoran Babic, as head of the SNS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51050	What the amendment promoter has just said introduces discrimination, pure discrimination. Because Article 37(4) defines that untimely, incomprehensible and non-accompanied all necessary evidence is, of course, rejected. If you want to be unfavourable, incomprehensible and not accompanied by all the necessary evidence to be considered relevant, you shall thus discriminate against those who have supplied what is necessary in the competition documentation. That way, you want to dissipate the whole procedure so that someone attaches white paper is deleted and that it is valid competitive documentation. I think that such a procedure is very not serious and we are trying to make our country a serious state, that only timely, understandable and applications accompanied by all the necessary evidence are relevant for the commission's decision. We leave these untimely, incomprehensible and unintelligible documents to you, so you deal with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51051	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51052	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, here is the opportunity to respond to the esteemed counterpart Pavicevic that this is not forging partocracies. Namely, if you put this member and the previous member together when you mocked that explanation who can compete, what should be done, how should it be done, what are the conditions that should be met by the candidate, you will see that just the widest layer of the population is presented all the needs for which the competition is being called. So they can compete from the widest layer of the population. Then, when it is well explained to them and they are given the knowledge of where they should compete, why compete, thus further explaining that the incomprehensible and untimely applications are filed on the basis of the very decidently precise conditions for the competition in the previous article will not be considered. So you have a colleague, Pavicevic, another proof of what is called that this law does not force partocracy. By the way, SNS didn't take that long to deal with this. For example, my small town of Cačak has already formed people in its previous meeting through competitions that were not members of the SNS and perform or perform the very responsible functions of the director of public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51053	The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51054	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, which commission, was she at the republican, local level, in primary school, in the home of health, in any institution accepts untimely, incomprehensible applications that are not attached without special evidence? By not accepting this, we would accept lawlessness in the Republic of Serbia. What is the security of Serbian citizens if you really delete a member like this? Please, Mr. Sertić, you must tell all other colleagues in the government that the proposer of this amendment advocates untimely, incomprehensible and non-provided applications. So for blank paper when applied for any public call, for a choice of any function and you see, please, what your colleagues think about it. The whole state summit is likely to be asked what are the proposals of MPs who introduce lawlessness into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51055	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, you see, this is how you see, that I have someone for a conversation that I could expect reasonable and reasonable behavior, I might say that there is a possibility that certain conclusions can be drawn from everything we say during this debate, because some are persistently pummeling into identical mistakes. If I had, I might have referred it to the ZUP, which is actually the essence of this provision, for which he might get help from maybe a first-year student at Law-Byrotech School. If that were too much, Mr. Chairman, I would refer him to the final position of a member of the law, which is currently in force, which he seems to have not read again. If I could expect reasonable and reasonable treatment, perhaps, Mr. Chairman, I would say all of that, but since it seems that none of it is there and that my hopes are too ambitious, I don't think I'm going to say anything this time. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51056	Mr. Pavicevic, you have no right to a replica. You challenged four MPs, not considering that again... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Everyone spoke, and I can't. You mentioned them all by name and by name. Now's your chance. The 38th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51057	So, from that series of 12 members who are completely pointless, Article 38 says, and that is why we have given the amendment - it is deleted - a decision to conduct a public competition for the selection of a director of a public enterprise whose founder is AP, the Authority, imagine, the AP responsible for the appointment of a director of a public enterprise elected on a proposal from the competent authority of the AP. The same applies to a competition for the selection of a director of a public enterprise whose founder is a unit of local self-government and is brought by a unit body of local self-government to elect a director of a public enterprise, which, by local self-government, is the same. This is a paper dump. This is an entirely inconclusive procedure for you to define things that are ordinarily known and there is no doubt that when a competition is called for the director of the public enterprise of local self-government or AP or at the level of the Republic, it is called by the competent authority, and that is precisely what the authority is and we already have it in the previous members of this law. So, spending time, but if it's all about getting us a modern law that, for the first time in history, is a dynamic way, solves a question that even those who were born less than 50 years ago, but have not enough level of literacy, they couldn't determine that there are over 50 years in our practice, no matter what the names were not exactly like this, but the essence was just like that. Therefore, these are the reasons why the minister of the economy in four hours and four minutes of today should...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51058	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51059	... accept our amendments, that these pointless members...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51060	I thank my colleague Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they first found that there was no way in the law in which the commission carried out this kind of ad. They are now rebelling over why the decision is taken by the competent authority of local self-government and the AP. I only hope that the duchess government is watching this television broadcast and that it is clear to him that with my fellow farmer together in the alliance of censors there is certainly no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51062	Members of the 39th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51063	Ladies and gentlemen, in nine hours of our debate in detail on the draft law on public enterprises, I no longer think there is a dilemma for anyone that the force of argument, Minister Sertic and respected colleagues and colleagues, is on our side. The arguments of the Serbian Progressive Party's MPs are based on achievements that were once well-prepared intellectually, but do not concern arguments for the position on the content of any member of the bill. I'm always in the mood, gentlemen, for an argument based on arguments, not achievements. It's just, you know, the impressions can sometimes make things better, you know, decorate, that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51064	I completely agree with my colleague Pavicevic about the results. You've been talking about dots all minute, and the amendment reads - article 39 is deleted. In Article 39, there is a text that you propose to delete, which begins – a public competition for the selection of a director of a public enterprise whose founder is an autonomous province and unit of local self-government. So please dedicate this second minute to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51065	Thank you, Mr. Arsic, and for this congratulation for my battle of praise. Of course, now I'm going to use this time to offer another argument for my claim that this bill strengthens the partocracies. Here, this article, with its contents, points to one severe arbitration as a feature of those people who need to wear the selection process of the director. So, arbitration. Honorable gentlemen, so whether arbitration that can always direct us towards some will should be one element through which, for example, the election process of the director is defined. I'm not up for it. When I notice that it becomes one of the key characteristics, I need to react here. And not only arbitration, but one heavy populism that monitors the work of this government. By the way, as far as the censorship is concerned, the New Party is on today's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51066	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51067	One of these members that I said was pointless until 42nd – at the end of the deadline for submitting applications, the commission reviewed all the applications. So, not before the deadline, but after. It's a brilliant solution. A revolutionary advance. Commission members are obliged to make written statements as to whether they or their related persons have an interest in conducting the competition. What does it mean to conduct a competition? Does this, Minister, mean they have something to do with the newspaper where the competition is announced or have to do with the choice of the font to write a competition or have to do with the choice of the language in which the competition was written or have to do with the selected candidate in that contest? This last one, if they had connections, interest, connection directly, indirectly, if I were to bother you in your pleasant conversation, then it would be smarter and more useful and it would look like something that makes sense to say that they have no related interests with the candidates at the competition, and not as it says here that they have an interest in conducting the competition. There is no Serbian language, no page 10 to write, an explanation of what it means to have an interest in conducting competitions because it can mean anything from what I have stated and probably another 10.15 of these same examples. If I haven't upset you too much and interrupted your conversation with your colleague, who's been going on all along my performance, I'm asking you to give me an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51068	Mr. Zivkovicu, Minister and members of the cabinet... . (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I did not speak to you at all. I asked the minister a question. I must sanction such insolence and such behavior as the chairman. But it's your manners and your home education. I was trying to let you know that what you should know is that the minister and the cabinet members are right here for consultations during the debate and for supporting the minister of questions that you ask that he may have ready answers. If you don't understand it, your bar behavior is always in a way where you just insult not only your colleagues, but also the ministers and members of the government. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51069	I'll let my colleague Pavicevic go. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot be surprised by one of the most experienced Members of the Parliament not to know the Law of Administrative Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: To whom? I can't be surprised that the government elected by the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51070	Don't throw it away, Mr. Zivkovic. I'll have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51071	... to rule. That's why the government is chosen to exercise power. That's right, especially since the former prime minister forgets that he's exercised power. They're not going to rule Serbia, are they? Not someone who doesn't have legitimacy, is he? This law only regulates closer to one matter. They forget that for all the laws, even for this one, the Law on administrative procedure that regulates and supports this law is applied. That's right. The National Assembly, and it conducts some electoral proceedings. We choose the judges, we choose the prosecutors, we choose the governor. Here is a full procedure to be conducted in the National Assembly - the election of a president and members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Are we gonna let someone else do this? I wouldn't. Council of the State Auditing Institution for the Assembly. I can't figure out why someone's bothered to write in Section 4. The criteria set out in Article 3 are prescribed by the Government, so they're asking to delete it. And who's going to prescribe? In every part of the law, do we want to pass and what are sublegal acts that are closer to editing, or does it simply take more imagination for amendment promoters to participate in quality work? If they had more time and opportunity to speak as an opposition, they're short now as an opposition, so they don't know they're getting ready, lack of imagination, and then we have this problem that we simply want to reverse both the Constitution and all the other laws with one amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51072	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51073	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure twice. The first thing you've allowed yourself to evaluate my behavior, which you have no right to. If you think I'm in any way jeopardizing the debate, then you can take me away from the session with your decision. And the fact that you're assessing what my values are, for that you don't have any conditions... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51074	Mr. Zivkovic, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I said two injuries. ) This gives me the right of the Rules of Procedure, and if that is not clear to you, when you are in power, in one hundred years, then change that Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted together. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51075	Article 41, of course, unambiguously defines who draws up the ranking list, four candidates. The previous speaker, who was he? Oh, yes, Arsic. I don't see him from this pay phone. He said there's a law of administrative procedure going on here. That's right, that's why there's no need to write it in this law. It's a burden. It's an outflank. It's a drive... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51076	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Are you insane? ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, forget about the peasants in the O.R. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What did you say? Here you go, Mr. Markovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Can you, sir, conduct the session in an appropriate way, or will you be savage? ) Warning to Mr. Zivkovic. The only MP who's wild today in the Assembly is you, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Are you aware of what you said? I gave my word to Mr. Markovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Are you aware of what you said after that to me? ) Unlike you who said we were cattle, unlike you who spoke cattle... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I didn't say you were cattle, you know who I told. It's a court of law that's defined... Mr. Zivkovic... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It has been four hours, half five is... Mr. Zivkovic, you yourself said you came from the celebration. I'm asking you to come back and sit down. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You look like you came from the funeral, but it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if I came from the celebration or not, it has nothing to do with what... ) Second warning, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: It has nothing to do with the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, I'm going to need a third warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: So what? You'll have to be expelled from the session. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: So what? Well, that's your intention, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, this is your intention. No, it's yours, because we had a democratic debate until you showed up. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: If you had a democratic one, then why didn't you keep it? Because you showed up... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You are giving qualifications here to people, you as chairman, what does it look like? What does that look like? Mr. Zivkovic, you, after all the qualifications you have given today to the MPs... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What did I say? )......................................................................................................... In addition to insulting the MPs of the people, in addition to insulting the ministers and members of the government... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Tell me one.) Well, you know that, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Wait, how do you transfer to me, and when I ask, you don't know? Here, exactly what you're doing right now. (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: That means you cannot transfer me. Mr. Zivkovic, exactly what you're doing. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What am I doing? Here's what you're doing. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What am I doing? You know that's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You can use the most primitive expressions, and I should enjoy it? Well, I'm not on this side. That's where the thinking people sit. ( See how you think.) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: This is an important difference. That's a drastic difference. Mr. Zivkovic, if you insult me, you can continue, but do not insult other MPs. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I do not insult you, I warn you. Mr. Zivkovic, what you're warning, what you're threatening, what you're insulting, I've already said several times... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: wait, he arrests me, and I... Mr. Zivkovic, I have already said this several times, that you have the right to do so, please, but do not insult other MPs. Don't insult your colleagues. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You do not know what insult is. ) Unlike you, I know very well. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: You have a completely wrong system of values. I just want... ) Well, the public of Serbia can see how you behave. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I am only protecting my rights. ) You protect your rights by your Kaphanic conduct. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Four years is quite enough, Serbia has realized... ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. The People's MP, Jovan Markovic, came forward. I apologize, Mr. Markovic, for having to attend this scene and for not having the opportunity as a MP to exercise your rights. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51077	Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, I am truly sorry to even talk in this atmosphere about such an important and important law, but I have chosen Minister Sertic to accept that the law... Mr. Chairman, I really think it's about time that all this is happening in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51078	I apologize to Mr. Markovic, I cannot influence Mr. Zivkovic not to throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51079	I don't mean Mr. Zivkovic, I mean these people who play these clips that they recorded in the previous period. Mr. Sertic is probably a little surprised, but he's also laughing at this atmosphere. But your acceptance that in this way, on this night we talk about such an important law and that in such a casual way all amendments, Mr. Minister, all those people who had a really serious desire to say something that contributed to this law has led to this atmosphere and to talk at half-five in this way about these amendments is absolutely pointless. One of the amendments, which I think are really good, is the one we submitted to article 41, and it's very difficult after everything that's been going on here, to talk about it. We've suggested here, Mr. Secretary, that Section 4 be deleted in this article, because it's too high, because... What's funny about that? That pitching of them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51080	Go on, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51081	... It's really pointless here anymore...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51082	Well, keep going, don't pay attention. It is my duty to warn the ambassadors who earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51083	So, I said the director's appointment act says it's final, based on the commission, based on the decisions of the authorities. We believe that this part is excessive and that, of course, it is possible to initiate administrative procedures for all those procedures and for all those people who are considered at risk in these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51084	I thank Mr Markovic, for, unlike some of your colleagues, trying to talk about the amendment and the contribution that I have made to withdraw the warnings I have given to Mr Zivkovic, because it is not worth the fact that this debate, which is important to the citizens of Serbia, is directed towards one MP terrorising the entire assembly. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, mg Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, mg of Dr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51085	Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted one fundamental amendment that is very important for the normation of the entire law. I'm sorry that Mr. Minister, probably because of the atmosphere, has gotten the impression that this is such a bit of a joke debate, and I think he's also been taking a casual look at these amendments. The amendment which we have submitted to Article 41 requires that it be added after Article 3(4), which states that the appointment act of the Director shall be adopted within 15 days from the date of expiry of the application. Why 15 days? Well, public enterprises, as we heard in the previous debate and in the debate in principle, are one of the very important levers of public interest in our country. A public enterprise, which would not have had a appointed director, risks being left behind during that period, means a standstill or some kind of verse that could question the general interest, which is the property of all Serbian citizens. That 15-day deadline is considered reasonable, as you did not foresee in the law at all what is the time limit within which someone should consider these proposals, i.e. applying to the competition and make a decision about it. We felt that it was necessary, in the spirit of positive legal rules, that this amendment, by adopting this amendment, precisely defines the deadline within which the Director must be appointed, because all of you have there and the possibility that, which says the appointment act of the Director, is final. So I don't see why that deadline would be unlimited and unpredictable?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51086	Thank you. Members of the 42nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51087	Dear ladies and gentlemen, basically the contents of Article 42. The proposal for a law on public enterprises, one says, that the government is choosing to exercise power. There is no dilemma about it and in the process of appointing the director, this attitude is fully applied, but respected gentlemen, when we say that the government is choosing to exercise power, it does not mean, as Mr. Arsic said, and Mr. Sertic follows that logic, that the government can do whatever he wants, beyond any control mechanisms. Because when it comes to power, in the Constitution of our Republic, it says in Article 3. Mr. Sertic, an arrangement of what? The authorities, honored gentlemen, are resting on a division of power, both legislative, executive and judicial. That means, gentlemen, that winning power doesn't mean absoluteism, that doesn't mean that you're doing everything, and basically the content of this article stands exactly that. Here, Section 3. Here, for example, from the position of the 3rd member to confirm, writes – the candidate who participated in the electoral procedure has the right to apply for insight into the competition documentation, but has no right to appeal, because in the previous article he writes – the appointment act of the director is final. That's what I have a language grudge for, Mr. Sertice. That would be like saying -- the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a legislative body. Again, it would be more appropriate to say - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a legislative body, as the appointment act of the director is final, but I am not for it either. That is why we have submitted the amendment – it is deleted, because it seems to us that our argument goes counter to a partocrat that is hardened and contained by this article, this bill. I don't find any counter argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51088	Please, MPs, understand that we have MPs who have not prepared for the session and that I simply have no way to direct them to the agenda. So, I ask the MPs to have an understanding, that just in addition to all requests, besides goodwill, aside from all attempts when someone is not ready for the session and when there is no argument to talk about the agenda, he has to discuss it this way. Understand that. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51089	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the noise always points to a lack of arguments. Democracy has its drawbacks because you can't stop someone from talking, but at least you can't listen to who's talking. However, no matter how hard we tried, we had to hear this. Who resents our partocracies? Those who made a party out of the state, and when they had something smaller, then they made a coalition out of the state. So, that party they're talking about, it absolutely doesn't stand, and we've proven more than once that they've been doing everything for the expense of their parties, for the expense of their coalitions, and they're the last ones who can object to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51090	Thank you. At the 43rd amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the people's emissaries Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51091	Can you make it possible for the minister to attend, since it is a condition for discussion, the amendment? Are you able to answer my question? I find that the chairman is unable to answer my question and I call upon him to determine his ability to continue the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51092	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51093	I, Mr. Chairman, fully understand this amendment, because Article 43, paragraph 2, says - the deadline laid down in Article 1, for particularly justified reasons, can be extended for another eight days, and that is the time limit when the candidate, the appointed candidate, would be required to take office as Director of the Public Enterprise. Now, imagine the situation, that after the next election, since, of course, the censorship won't cross, Bojan Pajtic is running for director of a public enterprise. And, uh, pass that contest, say, but then in order to get on duty he still has to go to Brione. And of course, it's logical to give him more time, eight days, to get so good, since he's used to spending on those destinations, one month at a time, then it's normal for that time limit to have quite enough days before he enters office. On the other hand, what do you think is that the amendment promoter, Mr. Balša Bozovic, is elected director of a public enterprise, and he is elected in Maldives. How to come all this way, so much, twenty and some thousand euros costs a stay at that destination, it can't be interrupted. It is perfectly normal to consume this position of Article 2 43, and therefore I see justification for those who are the most lazy in their functions, actually suggest that they can continue to lazily in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51094	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51095	I don't know why you all the time so humbly need to thank Mr. Babic for this kind of innuendo he's making, instead of giving him a warning about not talking about the amendment, you thank and question everything I want to say again. So we've really tried to improve a lot of things here. Em, what the minister isn't here is, um, allowing this kind of debate, and you're simply citing a discussion in one direction that doesn't really deserve this law or this effort we're making here. Come on one more time, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51096	Mr. Markovic, if you're not talking about the subject of the MPs, you're in a bad mood. I can't stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51097	And this was about the subject just now? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You can't, tell someone else if you can. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51098	If you were talking about the subject, this wouldn't be a problem, here's Mr. Djurisic throwing it right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51099	But then just tell me the coffee ties have just before what Mr. Babic was saying, with the amendment. What a way to talk about the subject like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51100	Mr. Babic spoke about the amendment, artificially cited some examples. I can't stop it. Shall I give you a heads-up about throwing Mr. Djurishic? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Go ahead. You're very nervous, I understand, and I don't pay attention. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51101	So the third position of Article 43 refers to saying that the director of a public enterprise is based on a working relationship for a certain period of time. I understand the intention of what it was said, but our proposal to amend it according to the amendment and to say – the director of the public enterprise is based on the working relationship on which he was appointed, and if the intention was to limit it in such a way and to say that it was for a certain time that the bar here should stand either a special position or be said for four years, or to say that it was at a certain time with the mandate he was on. So our observation here was completely in place. Of course, I'm sorry the Minister didn't respect that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51102	Thank you. The word is from the MP Rističević. On what basis, Mr. Pavicevic? Mr. Risticevic has already received his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that the situation in the former regime's party is difficult, but I do not understand this in any way on the same member of the same party has submitted two amendments. If we look logically, if we adopt the amendment of the previous group from that same party, we would delete Article 43. If we delete article 43, then this second part of the party that suggested that item 3 be changed and said. It doesn't make sense to me. If we go in a row and vote on the amendments, since the same party asked for a member to be deleted first, and then another group from that party or another party suggested that the third position be changed. How to change the third position in the deleted article is not clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51104	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Here you are, Mr. Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51105	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm advocating the injuries of members 161 to 166. Mr. Becic, I believe that you are in agreement, too, that without the present minister we cannot talk, and I ask you to give a break on the basis of Articles 101 and 112 until Minister Sertic returns, because he is the only one who can give the court a final ruling on our amendments, now on behalf of the Government, and I believe that it is obvious. Please, pause, let us abide by the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51106	Thank you. On Article 44 of the amendment in the same text... Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51107	Dear Chairman, I invite you to perform the duties of the chairman, or President of the Assembly, under Rule 27, as said in Article 27, and to take care of the respect of this Rules of Procedure. For this debate, four ministers were appointed by the government, the president read at the beginning of this debate, and if Mr Sertic cannot endure all the time here, I can understand it, some other minister, Mr Vujovic, Mr Lončar, Mr Rasim Ljajic, has not appeared once. I ask you to ensure that we have a debate with the presence of one of the ministers authorized to follow this debate on this important law. I warned you today at the beginning of the debate that this debate would not make sense, this is an important law and we are discussing it at half past five in the morning, in a completely inappropriate way, given the importance of this law. Out of your cowardly fear of getting into this meeting on Thursday, so the government at the head of the prime minister would come here and answer some questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51108	I thank Mr. Djurisic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. The minister is in the O.R., so your argument has no place. Thank you. The 44th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Did the minister hear all this talk while he was away?) He's heard everything, Mr. Markovic, so there are cabinet members in the O.R. that if the minister doesn't hear anything, they faithfully pass it on to the minister. Unfortunately, your argument is not enough for the minister to react.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51109	They could be cabinet members, I'm sure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51110	Are you going to speak for the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51111	Yeah. So you're definitely saying that members of the cabinet are both professional and capable of understanding what we're talking about? [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51112	I will not allow you to insult the members of the government who came to the National Assembly to explain the laws, we should respect the guests of the National Assembly, not insult them. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: The fact that you don't understand anything can be determined by an alcoholic test. You said well to Mr. Zivkovic, you said yourself that you came from the celebration, so I will suggest to the president that we use an alcohol test in these times or situations, because it would be effective. (Zoran Zivkovic throws on his way out of the O.R. but he doesn't understand. ) The 45th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51113	Dear ladies and gentlemen, due to the irregular conditions of this session, disrespect for the rules and procedures... (Zoran Zivkovic throws on his way out of the O.R.: and a drunk vice president. )......................................................................................................... We Members of the New Party will no longer participate in this night session of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51114	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I apologize to the MPs for having had a situation where people who are neither in the mood nor in the capacity to discuss things in the O.R. have been disrupting the course of the session. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51115	Mr. 107th Chairman, leaving the O.R., my colleague said he was doing it because of the drunk vice president of the National Assembly. I don't believe it, and neither does he. It would be good if he stayed in the O.R. and determined the psychophysical condition of all the MPs, vice presidents, and himself. I believe that this device would be maximum burdened at a time when it would examine my fellow farmer's psychophysical condition. To all the MPs and authorities of the opposition, I apologize, deeply, for the actions of my fellow farmer who, this night, has been very strangely offended by many people, and therefore I, as his fellow farmer, owe you an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51116	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. That's what he says about some other people. I've been here for 20 years, people who know me know that I haven't had a drop of alcohol in my life, but it doesn't matter now, it's important that I now have an obligation to apologize because an MP who came from a celebration by his own admission has come for hours insulting your MPs, insulting members of the government. I feel bad that I haven't been able to stop it, and that's why everyone who is offended tonight by the MPs who tried to bring down this high house, why they had the right, why they had the chance to feel it, so I hope now we can discuss the law that's on the agenda. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Thank you. The 47th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 48th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. The 49th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. The 50th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together, together with the MPs Gordana Komic and Jovan Markovic, submitted the title above the members and the amendment in the same text. The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51117	Dear Minister, again, I am expressing my dissatisfaction with the fact that in the attempt to propose many amendments, we have had very constructive proposals and that you have turned your back on all these proposals, as well as now that you have turned your back on what I am saying and in choosing whether to leave the hall and leave this session that is not suitable for this debate, the importance of this law and that we remain and keep talking, even though the minister is turned back here again. I have chosen to say what is professionally on my part and state this attitude that is related to this member, Mr. Babice, and whatever happens in this room, I consider it my duty, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, this Article 51 refers to the suspension of a possible director when a certain procedure is being conducted and we felt that this member is too high, because the Labour Act is regulated when the labour relationship ceases under the law and what happens and what procedures are in the event of a judicial decision on guilt. It means it's about a crime and it's supposed to be a prison sentence, so the formulation that we've proposed here seems to be better quality and better. I must again point out that your attitude and turning your back on what we say is highly unprofessional, that everything you have to tell the MPs of the ruling coalition at 5:00 in the morning, you should have waited to at least hear what we're talking about. He's devising himself, Mr. Chairman, by preside over everything that we're trying to make as a contribution to this law, and it's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51118	Time, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51120	As you can see, the minister has listened to you but his assessment is whether or not you should adopt the amendment and allow it to be the right minister. I expected you to also condemn the behavior of your colleague who tried to turn this session into a circus. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together, together with the MPs Gordana Komic and the MPs of the people, Jovan Markovic, submitted the title above the members and the amendment in the same text. The word is Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51121	In this article, we propose that Article 4 be deleted which states that the Director's office must meet the conditions for the appointment of a director of a public undertaking under Article 25 of this Act. Also, we explained this article about an hour or an hour and a half ago, precisely because it is possible to conduct an administrative procedure in this regard. So, all of this process, which challenges the right of those who are damaged in a particular process, and in this case, people can be damaged who are in competition and because the commission has made poor assessments, which has been ignored, what is happening locally, and Minister Sertic has repeatedly talked about how much trouble you have, or how much we have as a society of problems because people are very incompetent in various places and in this case did not respect the fact that party obedience is a very often a problem in implementing procedures, and therefore I think it is very important to leave space and the possibility that people who are damaged by these processes have the right to appeal. Given that you have not observed the previous arguments or arguments that we have made under Article 25. We think that you will be faced very quickly with the problems that will occur on the ground and no matter how much you count on this party obedience and obedience commissions and those who will make decisions, I am absolutely sure that very quickly the practice will show that we were right and that you should leave the right and opportunities for people to complain in the administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51122	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and a group of MPs, Boris Tadic. Here you go, the word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51123	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, although you have refused to answer for more than an hour, article 52 defines the acting director, his authority, the length of the term of office, and the government boasted in the principle debate that it had made something better than the existing law. The existing law has prescribed that the mandate of the performer can last six months, in the old law. In this law, it now stipulates that the period cannot be longer than one year. But then he brings a completely undefined attitude that he says – the same face cannot be twice appointed as the performer of duty. I don't understand how it's going to apply, is that twice in a row, twice in the same company? The entire government policy, and that's what the minister said when he criticised the current law, says – You have passed the law; I don't know who he meant, because it was brought by the same majority that this law also intends to adopt, this previous law, which prescribed that all competitions for directors must be discussed by 30 June 2013, but you didn't bring a deadline when they were due to end and then the ministers think it's normal that they haven't completed the competitions for two and a half years. So here and here. We have proposed that our amendment be reduced from one year to three months, because this would be a more responsible management, not an extension from six to one year, and that the person appointed as acting director could not be appointed director of a public enterprise. Of course, the government rejected this amendment, as well as any amendments that came from the opposition MPs with a standard explanation, that there were no reasons and that the proposed amendment would allegedly undermine the integrity of the regulation of the matter in question. So, Minister, you keep your mouth shut and keep your mouth shut. We will talk about why all the members of this law are bad, why these laws are bad, why you are bad, why it is a bad government and why these elections will bring about a change and start of Serbia's recovery and Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51124	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51125	Each of the MPs has the right to both his political position and his professional position on the subject of members of the law. The government remains, and I, as minister, in this solution written in Article 52, and it is progress in relation to the previous law, because the previous law has defined six months with the possibility of extending to six months, and then it was once not respected in some period, but was interpreted as being able to be extended several times. We have therefore defined in this article a maximum of one year and that one person cannot be appointed twice, so you can't take a break for three days and re-nominate a new man. So, in any case, if you read this way and interpret article 52, you will see that this is significant progress in relation to the period behind us, and if, as you have suggested, we would discriminate against the right of the performer to apply to a regular competition, I don't think it would be correct or fair to the people who have been given a certain task to be acting directors. All have the right, citizens of Serbia, in accordance with this law and with all other rules, to apply to competitions announced by the state, so that we also give such rights to the performer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51126	Thank you, Mr. Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51127	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I think you've had to react. You can have, or co-worker Djurisic may have any opinion about me, about Mr Sertic, about you, about anyone, but the basic and home education is that when he asks a question, he waits for the answer. He can like that answer and he doesn't have to like it, but to turn his back and ignore dialogue in that way, I think it's scandalous and it's not the first time, and I'm sure it's not the last time. What kind of call is that? He just advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, for God's sake, the minister wasn't there to talk to. And who's the minister talking to now? An elemental, homely education, a nice education, a human education, requires that when someone talks to you, even if he is the worst man in the world, listen to him, look him in the eye. What's hiding, in what way, why did he turn his back, not say what else he turned? Is that respect for the government of the Republic of Serbia? He may like it or not like it, but it's the government of all citizens, including his government. What kind of way is that? What would that mean? You don't think we can talk now, whenever Mr. Djurisic or any of his colleagues from the SDS, that we all get up now and turn our backs? What would that look like? I don't want to see the Assembly or our society, but our society won't go forward as long as there are individuals who call for dialogue, listen to themselves, and then turn their backs. Look at the courage, look at the culture. I ask you to respond and sanction in future to such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51128	Thank you, Mr. Granny. You will receive your word, Mr. Djurisic, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it is my duty to give Mr. Babic an explanation before that which I believe did not violate the Rules of Procedure. I've seen Mr. Djurisic's behavior, but believe me, I can't teach someone basic home education. But I also have an understanding today, left by an MP, and I have an understanding today because of their behavior. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51129	Thank you, Chairman. I think he's a injured member of 103. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the right of MPs to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the proceedings of the chairman. I did what I did just to make sure there were double arches in this assembly, and I proved they existed. Five minutes ago, less than five minutes ago, the minister listened to a colleague, Markovic, and his exposure. He spoke with Mr. Babic and other MPs. Don't move your head, everyone in the O.R. who was there to see. And no one said a single word, although Mr Markovic, and you, the chairman, pointed out that it was wrong when the MP spoke to the minister, that he was facing back in the hall. I wanted to see if there were double arches. I did it on purpose, I am not rude, as is the minister obviously, because for no reason whatsoever, he was giving MPs, turning their backs, standing in the O.R. while the messenger spoke to him. I'm sorry that this won't be able to see enough citizens at five in the morning, as Mr. Babic's neglect as he's a nice gentleman, how terribly offended he is. And why was he not offended three minutes before that on the same behaviour of the minister, who is rude, unworthy of this congregation? That's all you laughed about, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to hear Mr. Babic's explanation, your explanation and justification for how you can or can't do something. There's nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51130	I can tell you've just come up with it and it didn't happen like that. Before he began to speak, Mr Markovic, the minister came down for consultations on the amendments with the head of the SNS parliamentary group and with an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. At the moment Mr. Markovic began his presentation, the minister finished consultations at the time, but it took him a second, two to come and return to his post. And he listened to Mr. Markovic's statement. So, what you just came up with, I don't think it's on you. You didn't do it for that. You did it because you think you should continue the behavior the opposition has been conducting all day, where we have been talking for hours and we have been talking outside the agenda, outside of the amendments that are on the agenda and we are trying to discuss this debate. I was expecting now that Mr. Zivkovic has left the O.R. that you will realize that it is not in the interest of the Serbian citizens and that you will discuss the amendments... What are you going to explain to me?- I'm sorry. Like you're throwing now and not telling me what you're doing. It's not worth it, you don't want a normal dialogue, you don't want a normal dialogue. You don't want a normal dialogue. You don't want a normal dialogue. You don't want a normal dialogue. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You did not explain it in a single word.) Well, here, I explained it. Marco Djurisic, from the scene, you're telling lies. He was standing there for a minute. ) As I told Mr Babic, I understand that you are upset that you were left today by an MP, Mr Karic, who left your parliamentary group. I understand that you are now trying to pass on this anger to the other MPs and with your indiscriminateness to discuss this debate, but it is an honor for you and for the citizens of Serbia to see it. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: How can you lie?- I'm sorry. Here, it's a question, when someone's talking, that you're throwing away. It's a basic question. I'm the one who let you finish your exposure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: "Don't talk to me about raising me!" ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 53rd amendment in the same text. The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the title above the members and members of the 54th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordža Stojšić and Mr Dejan Capo. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, article 55, says: "The public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia has a review committee, the review committee has three members who appoint the Supervisory Board. An independent member of the Supervisory Board is the chairman of the Audit Committee. The members of the review committee shall comply with the conditions laid down in Articles 19 and 2 of this Act. At least one member of the audit committee shall be the person authorised by the auditor, in accordance with the law governing the audit." And the words we propose to delete "or which has appropriate title and work experience in the area of finance and accounting". We have suggested that we delete this so that the audit can only be done by an authorised auditor in accordance with the law governing the revision. You have rejected this by reason that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the draft law strengthens and precise conditions for selecting members of the review committee, and that, in the light of the tasks that this Commission is carrying out, it is necessary for the members of the commission to have adequate knowledge and working experience in the area of finance and accounting. That's what we're proposing, Mr. Minister, that only professional people and auditors can be members of the commission. You refuse our amendment, and in an explanation you support what we have suggested. Please reconsider and accept our amendment, because this man who needs to exercise professional control should be a licensed auditor and have all the necessary knowledge.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51132	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. At the 56th Amendment, National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted the same text. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Thank you. Members of the 60th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Jovanovic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 61st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 62nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Members of the 64th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 64th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 66th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Members of the 68th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Thank you. Members of the 70th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Members of the 73rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 74th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the title above members and Article 75 of the amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. National MPs Goran Ciric, Dejan Nikolic, Dragan Sutanovac and Vesna Martinovic submitted together to the 75th amendment. I thank the 76th Amendment, in the same text, together with the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, together. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Members of the 77th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of Chapter III, the name above the members and members of the 78th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by the MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The 78th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dejan Radenkovic. On behalf of Chapter IV and Article 79 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 79 is set in transitional and final provisions and sets deadlines for the alignment of acts with this law. We have provided for the position of 1st, which says, the founders of public enterprises and capital companies, referred to in Article 3(2) of point 1 and 2 of this Act, will comply with the founding act with the provisions of this law within six months. We have proposed that the deadline be reduced to three months from the date of entry into force of this law and in paragraph 2. — public undertakings as well as capital companies, as referred to in Article 3(2) of point 1 and 2 of this Act, shall be obliged to comply with this law and the founding act within 90 days. We've also cut the deadline here for 30 days, because we think it's important that this law comes to life as soon as possible and that the period of six and 90 is too long to comply with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51134	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51135	With respect to your efforts to help and to solve the situation in public enterprises as soon as possible, it is not realistic to expect all companies to do so. Since we are leading both the financial and any other consolidation of a large number of public enterprises, especially these large, republican ones, these deadlines are in line with the World Bank and the IMF and are accepted as sustainable, given all the obligations that public enterprises have, so I thank you for the proposal and the goal you wanted to achieve, but we have remained in this fundamental position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51136	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 80th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this is the last amendment to Article 80 that we have submitted, and he has been tasked with, in these transitional and final provisions, with a cut, in our opinion, by introducing a more reasonable deadline, which is perfectly reasonable, let us cut those deadlines in which the Supervisory Board will be appointed, because members of the Supervisory Board and representatives of the founders in the Assembly of the Capital Society of Article 3 of Title 2, which do not meet the conditions, you have foreseen that those within six months must be appointed, we have foreseen three months. For the Chair and members of the Supervisory Board, they shall be authorised before the expiry of the period for which they are appointed. If the Supervisory Board does not adopt the acts referred to in Article 59(1), you have provided for a year, and we have asked for six months. We think that's enough time to see if anyone is able or not to work. In the end, in a public competition for the selection of directors and others, it means in attitude 5, they ring, because you didn't put a deadline here, it's six months. You are in our explanation, here I finally have to ask you to give me an explanation for such an explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why there are no reasoned reasons. That's your standard explanation. Also, the proposed erasure would violate everything. We didn't foresee erasing at all, this argument probably refers to some other amendment. We didn't predict anything to delete. I think I'm right, though, that we've shown one of these pretty easy attitudes towards a very important law that should provide the possibility that the state works better, i.e. that public enterprises owned by all Serbian citizens function more effectively and that we really have control over them. When we say, we mean the state and the institutions that represent the state. This is how it comes down to being the same and a little bit worse because you have seven executive directors there, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51138	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. You don't want the minister to answer. It's okay. The minister called. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 80th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51139	The Serbian People's Party is of the opinion that article 4 and Article 6 of the 80th position should be deleted, given that the bill as a newspaper introduces elements of corporate governance in public enterprises through specific knowledge that the directors of these institutions must possess. Competitions for their election are necessary for all public enterprises, and those headed by the current and current law guaranteeing the directorial post by the end of the term of office. Only in this way will the condition that professionals who meet the conditions to meet the director of such an institution, i.e. a public enterprise, come to the head of public enterprises in Serbia. The adoption of this amendment finally stands in the way of the directors elected by party office, and I believe that this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51140	Thank you. Members of the 81st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 82nd amendment in the same text. Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and the joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted the 83rd amendment to the same text. Thank you. The 84th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 85th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Thank you. Members of the 86th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE METOROLOGY LAW You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Chapter I, the name of the member and member of the 1st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 2nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 3rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 4th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter II, the name of the member and member of the 6th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 7th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members and members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of Chapter III and Article 11 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of Chapter IV and Article 15 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter V and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter VI, the name of the member and member of the 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter VII and Article 18 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Thank you. The names of Chapter VIII and Amendment 19 were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of Head IX and Article 20 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 21st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 22nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 24th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of Chapter X and Article 25 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 26th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 27th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 29th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter XI and Article 33 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. The names of head XII and member of the 34th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members and members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter XIII and Article 38 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Thank you. On behalf of Chapter XIV, the name of the member and member of the 39th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members and members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of Head of the XV and Member of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of members and members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The title of Chapter XVI and Article 53 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The names of head XVII and member of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Laws on the Control of Subjects by DRAFT METALS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the Law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the voting day decide only on the draft law in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Rights of Property in the Land, Objects and Waters of the Industrial Society for Production and Processing of Steels of Smederovo D.O.O. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The names of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic, head of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51141	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, we have also in principle debated what little time we have had, given that there has been a merger debate on 14 points of the agenda, said and pointed out that this law is extremely harmful and that adoption can have inconceivable bad consequences both in the fate of Jelizara and in the justice system of RS because this is another lex specialis, another special law that derogates the applicable laws and procedures that this law practically derrogates now and in its title says that the proposal for a law on the acquisition of property rights on land, buildings, the waters of the Economic Society for the production and processing of steel by Želizara Smederevo D.O.O. Brown. This law also deals with other things in the title that are not spoken of in the title, and that is another reason why we feel that this title should be deleted, as well as the whole law. We did not get an answer from the minister – what did the government and leadership do, as it says, that the decades-old problems that exist are being solved? Ironworks D.O.O. Smederevo is owned by a four-year-old RS. I believe that the previous owner, since he comes from the United States, knew very well that he was taking care of the company's assets because he knew how much he paid for it and how much he invested in it, and I'm completely vaguely aware of this argument that a law like this will now be required to derrogate and the applicable laws relating to the traffic of real estate, construction, protection, waste management, environmental protection, I don't even know what not. So, what was done not to get into this situation? If nothing else, what was this secretly paid foreign management company sitting in the Ironworks for a year to clear up this situation, when it was already unable to deal with its primary business, which is the production of steel because there's nothing in the story that's going to double the production of steel? One of the furnaces is on fire, and the other one is shut down immediately the next day. So, there's no progress in production unless there's an improvement in debt. What was done to clear up this situation, to clearly define what was the property of Jellyzar Smederevo? Finally, the question arises, if the reason for the failed privatisation of one year ago is the fact that it wasn't done, and what now you want to do overnight with this law, then who's responsible for it, Minister? You were the minister a year ago when a call was issued for the privatisation of the Ironworks. You were responsible to offer a potential buyer a well-established company that knows what his property is, and you were obviously unable to do so a year ago and now you are coming and defending this law in the Assembly with an explanation that he needs to be taken care of and to know what the properties of Jelizara are. Then I ask you -- why wasn't it done a year and a half ago before an international call was called for the privatisation of Jelizara Smederevo, and are you responsible for the fact that this privatisation failed, and not someone else, someone from some previous years, how are we likely to hear stories and fairy tales again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51142	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51143	As you ask questions to us – why is it not settled in the meantime, I could also ask the previous governments a question – why is the issue of rights and forms of property over the property of Jelizara tens and dozens of years ago if we know that in a long time here in Serbia, over 270 days it took for one simple permit for ordinary, simple construction, and then we can only imagine what procedure it was to implement all these procedures in such a complete business and the realization of work related to Jelizara. As for privatisation last time, when we talked a year ago, you said that I was a minister at the time, that I was a minister, was a different model of the envisaged privatisation in which this was not a problem at the time because the property was equal even then and today, but not all forms of property rights and forms were properly defined. At this point, we need to realize that in order to save 5,000 workers working there, to allow for an additional 15,000 workers to work and to employ both new people and new capacities and to open new plants that we are planning in the next period. All of this can be taken out of context and so simply said – why didn't you and we do it, but here we came to the moment when we realized it and when we proposed a legal solution that should be adopted here in the Republic Assembly, which will allow us in a very short period of time to realise this job that hasn't been done for decades. As for the contract you mentioned, if HKK had not entered Jelizar Smederevo in time, today Jelizara Smederevo would not have worked and both of the high furnaces would have been shut down. So, the debts that were at that moment and all that happened after the second quarter of last year would result in the fact that today Jelizara Smederevo would not produce a kilo of melted iron or any other cold-rolled or warm-rolled lime. So we're going to have a chance to talk through the amendments, and once again I'm going to show you a lot of information why I'm responsible for what I'm talking about, and I'm going to ask you just to ask everyone who participate in this not to give a flat rate, not to do politics at Jelizara Smederevo, because this is our common interest, not to realize this job, but to save Jellyzar from the development of our country's economy for the sake of the citizens of Smedereva, but also on behalf of all economic factors that are very important for the economic recovery of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic and a group of MPs from Boris Tadic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs from the DS parliamentary group. Here you go. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51145	Dear Ministers, given that the importance of the work of Jelizara is far more important than any kind of political debate in this House, and given again, I must stress that it is really harmful and bad to talk at five o'clock in the morning about such a serious topic in the atmosphere where everyone is nervous, where everyone is exhausted, where we simply can hardly achieve real communication, or to help you first and foremost as the minister in charge of this area to improve this law, I must express from this context my dissatisfaction that we are speaking in this way at this time with such few MPs, with MPs of the majority who do not have any obligation to participate in the debate. I think we could all contribute together and help you sort of improve this issue. My core objections, as well as my colleagues to the DS Club, are related to the procedure. You here, in the light of this bill, said that since 17 February last year, when the talks with Esmark were concluded and when the government concluded that these negotiations were being suspended, you practically admitted that the procedure you were conducting was not successful for various reasons, and that, among other things, it was necessary to resolve property relations. And you're saying yourself that these undefined forms of ownership are a problem for further management of this system. We support the insistence that 5,000 people remain to work, that "The Irons" develop, but we express our doubts as to why this law is proposed in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51146	Time, Mr. Markovic. Finish your sentence, but I had to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51147	It's about topics, so I'll continue later, so let's make this an introduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51148	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51149	Thank you, Chairman. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, respected Mr. Becicu, citizens who look at this in these tiny hours, here, now it's half past six, so the people who work from seven to wake up, we've tabled an amendment to Article 1 that we're asking him to delete. He says - This law regulates the conditions and the way in which the company of economy for the production and processing of steel “Gelezara” Smederevo d.o.o. Smederevo acquires property rights on objects defined in terms of the law governing planning and construction and land on which these buildings are built, as well as on undeveloped land. This law regulates the conditions and the way in which “the Iron” acquires the right of ownership in the waters. This law regulates both the way and the conditions of the use of the cost, which is the waste from the high furnaces created in the production process in "The Irons". This is another law in a series of lex specials. So, this law, which will put the majority in the voting day to vote, all the other laws by which these problems that are being solved by this bill are being put out of force and only something special is being done for "The Iron" Smederevo. The minister says it's for the preservation of 5,000 jobs, and that's fine. Just, Minister, let me take you back six months to nine months. Low Vagonka, a guarantee for a contracted deal with Macedonians, 5m euros. Serbia and the "Serbian Railways" 20,000 wagons that need to be remounted under the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic. The only company that could have remounted those wagons along with the King went bankrupt. Well, what about those workers? You promised then, when we agreed on the machinery industry, that you would do anything to start something in Nis' economy. Nothing's running. Absolutely nothing. You responded that 6,580 projects were launched and spent 9.5 billion dinars in these projects. No employment. I don't know where these projects are, all I know is that 600 million dinars in the name of the profit tax are less in 2016 than in 2012, and that's the fact. The only thing you've increased, it's from a billion and 800 to two billion and 250 you've increased the position of city administration and municipalities in the city of Nis. Now, that is increased, party employment. But there's not a word about what you promised. That's why I don't think this law is good, that it should go all the way through normal flows and that the laws adopted in this assembly from various areas that cancel out this Lex specialis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51150	I thank you, Mr. Braddick. Just a request, "The Iron" isn't in Nis, so try talking about Smederev. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: The workers are the same as in "Gelezzari" Smederevo. You have to talk about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51151	I cannot best understand the explanation of the MPs who gave this amendment. And they always start with the same theme, that we want to help "The Iron" keep working, that we want 5,000 people to continue their work, that we want "The Iron" to be successful and to continue their good business, and then propose in Article 1. - It's wiped out. How do you think we do that, if this law that we have proposed and I have explained in detail why it is important for us at this moment in this privatisation process, if you suggest that each member be deleted? Then how do you intend to help? What you are doing and what you are asking for, if we adopt, if the majority in this Assembly adopted, it would mean that "The Iron" can be immediately closed, all 5,000 people immediately fired and that all 15000 people who are indirectly tied to "The Iron" can shut down their companies, small companies and stop working. I can't let that happen as a minister of the economy. This government cannot allow it, and we will fight until the last moment, with all the legal means of the competition, to allow people to work at the Irons, to earn their salaries and to make the Irons participate as much in Serbia's GDP as possible. I really can't understand your explanation. Then tell me what you want. Please tell me that your amendments "is deleted" do not want you to support this law. Tell the citizens of Serbia that you want to close "The Iron" and then let's be open. I, as minister, will defend my position and position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you defend your position, but do not change the thesis. That's all I ask of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51152	Thank you. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51153	Just three seconds. Mr. Minister, what you're doing is the policy of your government and your party. It's a bad policy. There is a better policy and a better way to solve this problem. Much better, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51154	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51155	Minister, I don't know when you're telling the truth. Do you speak now when you say that if this law is not passed, "The Irons" will close, so tomorrow, or what you said two, three, four, six months ago, how is the super plan "B", the new foreign administration, how will "The Irons" record quantities produce? When you weren't telling the truth, Minister? When did you say that "The Iron" has a great perspective a few months ago, or now that you come with a law like this and you say – if this isn't adopted, the "The Irons" closes tomorrow? At least one time you weren't telling the truth, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51156	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51157	And what do we want? We want the laws of the Republic of Serbia respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51158	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Your task force has no more time. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51159	Dear Minister, I thought that in my first address on this subject you understood that we had a common goal, and that's why I was surprised when you said now that with our discussions, we actually wanted to close the Iron Man, which is completely wrong and that it didn't contribute to this debate. The amendments that we have made, as regards erasing these members, we have submitted first of all because you are very unprofessional on Saturday night, suggested that both this law and seven other important laws be discussed in less than 48 hours. It was not possible to make adequate preparation for what you suggested. So, we've pointed out in the amendments that it's not good for you to keep wandering and wandering. If today's natural persons in Serbia when they want to register their immovableity must bring proof that they have...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51160	Mr. Markovic, I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51161	Well, that's the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51162	Well, you can't talk about the law at all, if you didn't have time to prepare, you have to change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51163	Here, read what the amendment says. So this is where we filed -- the bill is so formulated that it's a legal basis for gaining property rights, but nowhere is the exact property. In addition, we said that when a natural person concludes a contract to transfer property rights over real estate sales, or a gift, they are obliged to indicate exactly which immovableity it is. So the essential question about the concept that is being asked here, as possible, that private property, means a man who wants to be a physical person to register his immovableity in a catastro has a obligation to specify which number of parcels, which object is concerned, what kind of immovableity that is, etc. We're in a situation where as a state for such a valuable project and a big and serious job, we don't have those rules. A fundamental amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51164	Yes, Mr. Markovic, but you asked me to delete this member, so I don't know what you're talking about. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51165	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, we will continue on every amendment for every member whose erasure we have suggested to explain why this law is bad. It's bad law, every member of his is bad. It is not a solution to "The Irons" and other economic problems by the government in a minute to twelve, or in this case at half-six in the morning, to come with a law of leks specialis and to derrogate laws in force in the Republic of Serbia. This does not create legal certainty which, as you, I am sure you know, is a prerequisite for the arrival of serious investments both foreign and domestic. No investor will come to a country where there are no rules. You, this law, this article, show that there are no rules in Serbia, because they can change overnight, they can change from case to case. That is how this Article 2 speaks, among other things – on the date of entry into force of this law, public enterprises whose founder of the Republic of Serbia ceases to be entitled to cadastrian parcels on which only the "Gelezzare" facilities are located. What kind of public enterprises are these? What plots are these? This must all be found in every law, or contract, that must be known. I can't keep things like this in the law of the members, and you expect this law to bring legal certainty into Serbia's legal system. This is about political volunteerism. That the government will do whatever it wants, and that's what investors are running away from. And you know it very well. They run to all other countries around us, don't come to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51166	The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51167	You run a lot of topics during a debate, so I just don't know what I'd sooner answer you, whether for the jobs we've got in the world and from all the international institutions to fix the business environment with the rise of our rating on the "Diung Business" list, or whether to go back to the question of MPs who say – he doesn't know what this law is about. Article 2 of the first position states – the right to property is established in favour of "The Irons", on cadastral parcels in the property of the Republic of Serbia, on which "The Irons are registered as the holder of the rights of use and as a user of the day etc., etc. So, from Saturday until today, you had at least enough time to read a law that has 17 or 18 members, and that you just said you shouldn't say it because it's only about the parcels that belong, which are listed in all books for the benefit of the Smederevo Irons. So it's not about any company that's going to be damaged that way, or any other business entity that's going to have any rights. This is a lex specialis exclusively for the "Steels" property so that we can carry out the process to the end in an efficient way, which will allow us to quickly enter all other rights that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51168	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic and together MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and joint MPs of the DS group together submitted the amendment to the same text. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51169	Your Honorary Minister, the question is then, if that's true, why did you state why it was necessary for this law to be passed as a lex specialis? At this third point, you say that units of local self-government are obliged to deliver within three days of the date of entry into force of this law to the authority responsible for matters of national diameter and catastra etc. to execute a list of parcels. If all this was right, if you were here as you say you had adequate documentation, then that's why it was necessary to pass a law like this, and at the last point of this law, you say that all other laws don't apply. Well, if you respected the Law on Planning and Construction, Laws on Law-Laws, the Prime Minister and the Cataster and so on, then the problem was to implement this whole thing in action and to list those assets in the way that the law predicted it. What's the problem? You never once said, precisely, what property it is. We are just talking about the fact that because he's wandering around in the concept, because he's wandering around in how you should treat your property, or state property and investors, we're getting into a situation to send a bad message. If you've already had experience with an American partner, then one tender bad, then another tender bad, then you ask the question of procedure. Now with this law passed at six o'clock in the morning, we're supposed to solve all these issues. We're just about to say that there's a fundamental problem. If you have already prepared all this, why you did not state in the proposal to pass this law what catastrian plots are, which are objects, to indicate the exact land and what is the exact property to which this law applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51170	Thank you. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51171	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment to Article 3 and the very definition of this Article 3 will inconcluse what is actually wanted by this procedure. All those who read it and who read it are obliged by the competent units of local self-government to pay attention within three days of the date of entry into force of this law, to three days from the date of entry into force of the law, to the authority responsible for matters of national diameter and catastra acts containing the list of cadastrian parcels on which ‘Gelezara’ has been entered, which have changed the purpose of agricultural and forest land in building land by means of planning documents. Well, is it possible, then, in the full of this period of four years, they didn't know what plots the purpose of which was changed? Was it possible to build objects in those areas that you didn't have permission? And the first and basic condition for every Serbian citizen when he wants to make a cottage, that he must have a change in the purpose of land if it is agricultural or forest land. We have suggested that this member be deleted for reasons why we do not see the concept, the concept of further development, or the procedure in the activation of the work of Jelizara. Here you can see a verse that is not suitable for a serious job that means a lot to us. Believe us, we look forward to the work of the Irons in Smederev, but to work not as it has done on two or three occasions, one of the furnaces is on fire, the other is on fire. So how much is this production? Well, how much do we do and how much is it worth doing? It's very important to be told. If it will contribute to why you haven't used your ability to give us the exact information to support you in that, you're putting us in a position where we have to look for further explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51172	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51173	This whole law, or bill before you, deals with shortening existing procedures in laws that define different activities that would normally last a year to a year and a half in regular procedures. So, we're reducing procedures by this law. This just before you said about Article 3. So the planning documents exist in the town of Smedereva, we're just asking within three days to be delivered just saying about these procedures, because these procedures can take a lot, a lot longer. You as citizens to address the city, any one here or any other municipality, have no guarantee you'll get it in three days. On the other hand, do not forget that it is about a million square meters of the "Stredere" facility in three cities. Well, the house that you need to regulate 100 squares would take you a long time to complete all the paperwork without telling me how long it took before the new Planning Act was passed. And we don't have the books, and we don't have the complete infrastructure needed for it, because it's been done for decades and we've inherited the complete chaos, 228 days have been an average obtaining permits up to six months or a year ago, a little less when the law was passed here in the Republic Assembly, which we've brought, and now all the municipalities are obliged to issue, to open in less than a month, and you've had laws where we've been waiting for almost a year. Well, why didn't you do all that? Yeah, that's right. These are documents and things that can be seen and it's easy to say here now that you haven't done it in the last six months, we've been struggling with all the problems that you've left us with since the last period. Nothing's been solved. It's all put under the carpet. And then when we started to solve one thing at a time, then you see that under that carpet there's so much garbage and so much stuff accumulated...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51174	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51175	... that you have to make priorities and solve them first. The priority is that the people in Jellyzara work and that Jellyzara continues to work, and we will do everything I can and what is in our power to do it the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51176	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic and together MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and joint MPs of the DS group together submitted the 4th amendment in the same text. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51177	Thank you, Chairman. Well, Mr. Minister, you said, we passed the law all within a month is now being settled under the new law. We repeated that law a few months ago. Well, why didn't you solve it? Either there's a falinka in that law or you're not telling the truth again. Things aren't that simple, I know, and by this new law, you couldn't solve everything in a month, and now you think you're going to solve this by law. You won't, you'll get in trouble. Article 4 of that, for example, speaks of a second-degree body. What's the second-degree organ? It's not defined by this law, which is a second-degree body, anywhere in any member. You've made a mistake. Someone will argue, they will complain, they will seek, where, as you will not succeed in the intention that in the next 10 days, as you told us in the principle debate, you will call a new call for privatisation and tender, as the government will already decide. You won't make it, despite these abnormal deadlines. Three days before the local self-government authority delivers the list, and then within seven days, the solution brings a cadastre, so that solution can be complained about. I'm telling you again, this law destroys legal security and stability. This law makes investors. You may find one investor under this law, as you have found the so-called investor "Belgrade on Water", but you have scattered dozens, perhaps hundreds of others, because this is not in accordance with European law, where it is known who and how it works, where the state guarantees legal certainty.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51178	Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51179	Dear Ministers, since it is a practice in this House, but also in public to listen to the various statements of ministers who say there was a procedure before, so it was 278 days of waiting, so it was upside down, so things are pushed under the carpet and it's easier for you somewhere, it's a relief to say that you're solving all things now, but you need to know. According to the old Law on Planning and Construction, the deadline for the solution was 31 days, and according to the new law it is 28 days. The fact that certain projects are dealt with by an emergency procedure that does not have some legal problems, these are only rare examples and that is statistics. A huge number of people today get negative solutions, i.e. they have problems in their demands and things stand. You are lied to by those who say that everything is booming and that everything is going well. That's not true. You said here in the first position of this member, the entry of change, the type of land of Article 3 of this Law, is based on a solution that has a declarative character. It is thought of changing purpose from agricultural and forest land to building land. When you start a procedure with that process being declared, that's the problem. When you have a situation that after the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, for months, the second degree, and in this case it is a cadastre, does not solve cases like the Ministry, where you have the state's response that only from 1 April of this year, the items that have been transferred to the Ministry to catastran, then you have a big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51180	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51181	I do not claim that everything is wonderful and wonderful and that everything is perfect in our country and solved, but what I am saying is that this government has made huge shifts, that we have regulated a large number of laws, procedures, everything that you have not done in the previous period, and in the current debate, I do not see any of your proposals on how to improve and how to do the work that we should do, except for the members, being deleted. It's the only thing I see here with you, and then you say again that we want to help, and we want to hire workers, and I'm telling you again, with your members, it's wiped out, we can shut down Smeder and everything that's related to Smeder and it's no help at all. Give us a suggestion on how to improve this text, if you think you can help. With these proposals, it is deleted, all the members of the laws that we have provided for to regulate the issue of change of status, property and all necessary acts that need to be brought in that period, in order to solve the problem we are dealing with, we will do nothing with your amendments – it is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51182	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are those of us who have a little longer memory, so let's remember the privatisation of Sartida in 2003, how it was done, and at what time was that in March 2003? If it was during Sabre, if it was completely non-transparent, if it was for a price of 21.3 million and something, with six or seven more subsidiaries, a total of 23 million dollars, and in doing so, it seems to me that the debt that the state took over was quite non-transparent, about $500. There are various estimates, perhaps that debt that the state took on and perhaps over one billion marks at the time, and I say that there were 500 million dollars, which was equivalent to anywhere near billions of marks, since it was then one mark, and now it's one euro, which would mean, if the government now took over and took over in such non-transparent conditions one billion euros in debt, sold it, transge -- france, hand – hand, and we know that it was the subject of controversial privatisations, one of the most controversial. What hit me even more, is that they're parallel to it, so whoever has ore coke, they can buy the Jellyzara, and we can hardly handle it, and I believe that it's important for Smedereva, for the environment, for the workforce, but what hit me even more is the citizens of Smedereva and the employees are destroying the metal industry. It has been devastated since 2000, no more production of wagons, tractors, trailers, machinery and combines. We had Ironzara who when she returned to the state, completely, when the Americans returned it, without any metal industry, which could compensate for the losses by working, producing equipment for farms, machinery, wagons, etc., used some of the steel and thus resupplyed the losses by profit, tax on wages, VAT, could bear the potential losses of the Ironworks. So, those who took the worst possible way to privatise Sartid, those who eliminated the metal industry, and thus tens of thousands of employees, are here today holding us for real circulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51184	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoja Bradić, Ivan Karic and together the MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic, together the MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51185	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 5, we've predicted that it should be deleted. What is the purpose of our proposal and I think the minister understands, the proposal that we have received is bad enough that it cannot be fixed by some of the procedures that you would give, specify and improve what you actually want. Perhaps it was wiser that we all participated in this debate, because this is how we got a document that is your opinion, your work, without consulting those you accuse of being wrong. I think even from the people who make a mistake, and we privatized it, it wasn't good, there won't be any good privatisations, especially today when you know they're doing iron work in the world. There's no one doing good business for the price of ore and all that. We don't want to burden you with that. What I think is that, which is what we think, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZS, is that this Article 5 is deleted for a number of reasons. He can be, this is where the first-degree and second-degree procedure is defined. What about the restitution? What about the land that was taken from someone so it was state, as you said in Article 1, and now it's the subject of restitution. So, in some ways, it can create serious problems that are insecure at this point, respecting existing legislation. The best intention is that such a law may be better to withdraw it, so more specifically consider all these proposals, with respect for your solutions, but in a broader debate this would give a much better solution. This is how it's prepared again for some good bride, who may come, may not come, and most often and most likely will not come, because at this point no one can be interested in the production of losses.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51186	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51187	Dear Ministers, of course I think it's a good idea to give solutions, but then again, I want to tell you that we didn't have any materials that were sent to the MPs in time to prepare for this debate. I see the solution exactly in the fact that the existing laws were a good basis for not making any new mistakes and that all those who advised you to do it in a way that I don't know what kind of way, with a special law might have brought you into some new problems. This first position of Article 5 per se is one of the most important points of view for all of what I'm saying as proof of what I want to tell you. It is said here that the first-degree and second-degree procedures relating to the change of the entry into the immovableity catalogue of the immovableities referred to in Article 1 of this Act, under which no final decision has been taken until the date of entry into force of this law, are suspended, and the state of entry into the immovableity catalogue is restored to the pre-application state. I am absolutely certain that the people who led Jelizar and during the 2005 Law on Legalisation and Laws concerning Land Conversion tried to register all these facilities. And there must have been a lot of problems, whether it was about restitution, whether it was about various court proceedings, etc., they were probably having problems about it, and I believe it's good to take steps and, first of all, to get the local administration and the state cadastre to sort you out. But here's the problem that stays open. What we've been up to all along is nowhere to be exacted what property it is. I think it was good for the services to be made by existing laws to do whatever they do and the physical ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51188	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51189	I read to you that the first article decidently wrote that it is exclusively an property that is entered into the right of property, i.e. the right to use Jelizara Smederevo, and I don't think there's a need to repeat the story again and to say whether or not we should have done it one way or another. This is the only time we're going to do a quick and efficient implementation of all procedures. And why do we have to do that? Here's a document in my hands made by the company "Wald Styled Dynamics", which is one of the world's leading companies, which is predicting, which gives an analysis of the motion of steel. We asked them to give us a written analysis of what could have been expected last year, and here is one of the elements, or one of their conclusions, of numerous events, in the last months of 2015, which seems not clearly foreseen in the first quarter of 2015. So it is said then – A huge drop in the price of hot rolled strips with an ex-ship for export. A huge growth in Chinese steel exports, with 94 million tonnes in 2014 to more than 112 million tonnes in 2015. Then, the expansion of the financial plague to more regions in the world. The collapse of the developing countries, including three of the four countries of Brick, Brazil, Russia and India. A significant decrease in the rate of growth in the Chinese economy, a massive decline in the price of ordinary actions of most steel companies, a decline in oil prices, the power of US dollars, so down to detail, which no one in the world predicted, so early last year what would happen in the second, third and fourth quarter. These are the things that led to two steel mills in Europe being shut down. One with over three and a half thousand workers in Great Britain, one in Spain. We fight in every way possible to keep our steel company, because we don't have 500 steel companies or companies like steel, so that we can close one down and say -- here's the rest of them working and have the opportunity to replace what one company of this guy can lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51190	Thank you. The 6th Amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, joint MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and joint MPs of the DS group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51191	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, for example, this Article 6 deals with the right approach or access to land above groundwaters and is said to be obliged to compensate owners or holders of neighbouring or surrounding land for damage caused by access or access, whose height is determined by the agreement and in case there is no agreement to go to court. So it has nothing to do with the acquisition of property rights on property land, on property land and lines of business society. So, even if we were to accept this whole bill, this member was too far gone, I should have deleted it, but I'm glad the Ministers now read that expert report and analyze what was going on in the second half of 2015, which is why today's difficult situation in Jelizara Smederevo and we know it and we understand it and we tell you, because you keep telling you what we're offering you, we're telling you to keep going back to the existing laws. It's better than this Lex specialis, because this terra, you might solve this problem, but you'll open up many other problems. But, Mr. Minister, take that same firm or other, an analysis of the situation in the economy in the second half of 2008 or 2009 or in 2010, and see what happened to the world economy at that time, how Serbia reacted to it and whether there was a fairy tale and an idyll in the world, and only the evil government of the Republic of Serbia destroyed the Serbian economy and shut down jobs, as your party's MPs here claim from day to day. It was a crisis like it was, 100 times worse than what you're talking about and we're discussing achievements, we don't have that understanding that you're asking us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51192	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51193	Dear Ministers, it is in this Article 6 that there is also a solution to what we are proposing, and let's say your call in the final position of this member that the competent court pleads possible disputes for us is problematic because the courts will surely make longer decisions and solutions in these proceedings than the Government's decision to declare public interest in some area, and then the purchase of land. What you said about expert analyses is also important to me, and I expected that after Mr. Rističević's presentation you would react and that you would indeed repeat what you said and now, but also in the principle debate when you cited an example of Italy that invested over 500 million last year, it seems to me, money from the Republic of Italy's budget for the Iron Subsidies. We can't judge now what was done 15 years ago at the moment when people made decisions on a completely different basis, whether it was 20 million euros in subsidies or purchases or sales, etc., and to judge and after 15 years it was done as if it were wrong then, and now you're saying that last year you couldn't predict what business would be, or what business environment would be. Therefore, I still think that the solution to these problems was precisely that all competent institutions from local to state level were directed in this direction to address these issues under existing laws and would far less have procedures and problems and far better message would be sent to potential investors as regards calls for them to participate in the purchase of "The Irons".
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51194	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs of the DS group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51195	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51196	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, Article 7 speaks like this - property rights under this law are obtained on buildings built without a building permit, buildings built on the basis of a building permit issued from which it was deviated during construction, buildings for which a building permit was issued but no use was issued, on the lines built without a building permit, as well as on the lines built on the basis of a building permit which was deviated in the course of construction. So this is talking about one mess, and now you want to solve it without implementing a law that applies. We've been listening, say, to the Law on Legalization that all this will be settled in 30 days. That's what your colleague from the government used to tell us. You come, you give the paper, and there's no problem. Did you work without permission, if you've given up your license, if you didn't get the right permission, everything will be settled by that law. What's the problem now? Why this law? You are talking about it in Article 2(2) of this article that now some commission will make a finding and conclusion on the basis of which the similarity of the facility, i.e. water for use, is confirmed. Well, what kind of commission needs the whole projecting process now, building to replace? Who's going to guarantee by their signature that the facility built without a building permit won't collapse tomorrow? How is that possible? How are you going to convince some investor to buy this, "The Iron" with such facilities, so tomorrow he'll be responsible if something happens to the workers who work there? It's no good, this way's not a good way. The laws in force in the Republic of Serbia must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51197	Time. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51198	Dear Ministers, one of my key concerns when it comes to the Law on Law of Law, is that it is precisely an engagement of commissions that are foreseen under this law, where I am absolutely certain that there is no clear and transparent procedure, that is, the responsibility of these people and I think that there is a fundamental problem in taking over the responsibilities of people who are licensed for what they are expected to do, and that in record time of a year, all the facilities are written, to issue permits, to confirm their signatures that these objects are done in accordance with regulations, laws, to have statistics, etc., and that they can be used for a particular purpose. This is also about parts of the factory that must have been done according to a certain procedure. If they haven't been issued for years, and that's what this is about, then you have a very big problem that these are people, with what kind of licenses that will put their signatures on these procedures. I think again under the existing Law of Law, it was possible for these problems to be solved, and not to be introduced now, you later say that in Article 8 of this law in the first position, commissions that will be engaged by "The Irons" and which will allegedly give their consent to legalisation, i.e. the legislation of these objects in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51199	Thank you. The minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51200	Your proposals are really more comfortable and much wider and it would be much easier for us if we had the time and opportunity to exploit all existing legal norms. And it is a new Law on Planning and Construction has significantly reduced, or simplified, the procedure and shortened the time of issue of permits, but the Law on Planning and Construction did not predict that we would have to regulate millions of square meters in a short period of time such as one production plant was placed in three locations, three cities, with such a complex technological continent and with all those elements that belong to the “Smederevo Irons” plants. So it was necessary to define one legal solution that we're going to do, which we're going to minimise the procedure. Again, this lex specialis is called only and exclusively for the "Smederevo" Drives, in order to realize what is needed. No procedures have been skipped. Nothing has been done outside the law and those norms that exist in both the building and the inspection bodies, but the procedures have been shortened in order to get time and effectively complete the work that we have to do to privatise the Iron Man in time and ensure the continuity of production, but also ensure that over 5,000 people who receive wages there today continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51201	Thank you. The 8th Amendment in the same text was brought together by MPs Marko Djurisic and a group of MPs Boris Tadic, together MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic, joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51202	Thank you. Mr Minister, Article 8 similar to Article 7 of the finding of the similarity of the facility, i.e. the waterways for use is made up of a commission which for each type of facility, or for all waters is educated by ‘Gelezzara’, made up of a person with a license of an appropriate profession when it finds that the buildings, i.e. the waters meet the conditions laid down by this law, etc. The essence of our grudges is lex specialis. This is what I do for my Watt, as Nishli says, I've been listening for a second time. We have heard the same thing about "Belgrade on Water", only now and never again, the life opportunity of Serbia, a unique opportunity, will we employ strong people. I don't see these people working. He's supposed to be working "The Iron" here, but this way, Lex specialises. What's the next Lex special, for what? Then what are these other laws we're making? You say we don't have time. Well, why didn't you start doing this in time? You've been in power for four years. If you know that a million square meters has not been solved, why hasn't it been solved so far? What have you been doing for four years? You say there were no building permits. That's not true. In Nis in 2008-2009 you get a building permit in five days. Do you know what the problem is with legalization? Property relations, and will not be resolved again, 80% of illegal objects are the result of unresolved property relations. Now, when she solves some government, she'll settle legalisation in three days. You've got carrots and sticks here, but you don't seem to know how to handle them. Another government will come, and you'll see how this country can be run without a Lex special. Why is someone privileged, because the government didn't see how to solve the problem and didn't solve it in time? Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51203	Time. I beg you, I expect you to speak on the subject of other MPs. You're talking about the amendment you submitted. (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: I was talking about the amendment. Well, you didn't talk about the amendment. (Blagoje Bradić, from the site: We explain why to delete. You can't keep talking about Nis. We're talking about Smederev and the Smederjev Irons. It's no good for me to convince myself, but you haven't said a word about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51204	Given the importance of the facility, given that this is the government's project, the government's law, I think it's a bad solution and that "The Irons" educates its commission. I think it was necessary for the local administration or government to do so, given the importance and scope of the job, given the responsibility that is being taken over. That's one thing. The second thing, in the Law of Law, you have procedures that concern both people who have the right to such jobs to have a license and companies, etc. And a certain list of these people is being formed. I think in this case it was necessary to maintain that principle. I think in this case it was necessary to maintain that principle and here the 5th position, in my opinion, is problematic, where it is said that all members of the commission have to sign the report, including the president of the commission who sign it. So, my only dilemma is, and what if, since there will be a large number of members in that commission, someone will disagree with these findings and you might consider whether, in some way, through the board or in some other way, this term "all the members sign these findings" can be reformed in some other way. I think it could come to a deblockation if one of the board members doesn't sign or maybe doesn't want to sign something they found as a finding.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51205	Thank you. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51206	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 9 is proof that such a law, a legislative proposal should not have been in this form. The reason for this is that you are here in Article 9 - the contents of the findings of Article 7 of this Law depend on the type of objects for engineering, the findings are particularly contained, so I will not read one of them because these are legal solutions that you already have in the Law of Law and in other laws that have already been passed. Your explanation is that it will speed it up. It won't speed up anything, because what will slow you down the most, slow you down and the citizens, and that's a cadastre, property, and in this case who pays for this? State. It's very important to say one important thing. So it keeps running around like you're for God's sakes that Jellyzara's working, that's all. that 5,000 workers work, not that Jelizar works, but 5,000 workers work, and we are against it, and we are also aware that these 5,000 workers are working, but we are also aware that these 5,000 workers cannot do so in the Jelizara, or a positive institution. He'll make losses and the state will touch. It may have been easier to solve these problems by stage, and that you are, therefore, a certain number of workers, not perhaps 5,000, but a certain number of workers, and another part of the workers, better to receive some donation than to create a fiction about how they work. Our ironworks can't work profitablely, I know it, and you know it. It is therefore much better and more honest to move more seriously into the phase activation of this company, i.e. to avoid these special laws, which only raises doubts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51207	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51208	It's not just about the number of 5,000 workers and 15,000 in the follow-up work. It's important that Jellyzara works. The full capacity of Jellyzar brings us almost two percent of our GDP. It means a lot to us for macroeconomic stability and for all the fiscal implications we need to have in order to keep the country in good economic condition. It's important to us that Jellyzara works. It's important for us to provide a big, huge investment, not just at this point in order to save Jellyzara and two furnaces that will work, but all of those factories and that chain of production that should come after that. We fight in different ways and on different sides to ensure it. Do you think in six and 25, today 24, I would sit here with you and solve this problem if we could have solved it in any other way? It could not be in the Law of Law that such an object of a million square meters was resolved in the short period of time as we needed it. That's why we came to you to discuss the possibilities to adopt a law like this that allows us to solve the problem that we have, so that we can then implement all the further economic activities that I said at the beginning of this exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51209	Thank you. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51210	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, for example, article 10 deals with taxes, paying taxes in accordance with the law, under the law governing the law of objects. Then some standards are attributed to that law, they say it's going to be divided 70-30, they're talking about what local self-government should use that part of the money that comes into their budget. Then this Law of Law was to be applied. You claim there couldn't have been a million squares in three months or how many, how many laws were passed. Now you want to do it in ten days under this law. Well, that's not possible, that's not possible. There's going to be some kind of failure. You tried to fence yourself here in the previous article, so you say it's part of the report by the owner of the facility to accept the potential risk of using the facility, given the minimum technical documentation prescribed by this law. What are we gonna do about it? Something that might fall on someone's head tomorrow, kill someone. It's irresponsible to do such a serious thing overnight. Now you come and tell us with a peaceable tone. Let's talk. Minister, you passed the bill at the government on Saturday morning, came to parliament on Saturday afternoon, we started a principle debate Monday morning. We cannot conduct a peaceful and serious dialogue in this way. You entered the trench and fired on us with this law. You didn't come here to talk to me, to make a deal, but to get rid of us. Let us defend ourselves and say why we think differently from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51211	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51212	Dear Ministers, I have said two or three times that I fully understand the motives that were important to you and your associates to choose this concept, and I have been more than once in a position to, out of the desire to end something and to do something, try to make shortcuts and believe that the greatest help was given to me by the one who was on the side somewhere who was saying something that didn't suit me at that point, or I was in a lot of trouble, but it proved to be good to think about it. In this case, we cannot help you with anything special in changing these decisions, since this has already been defined and has come as an offer of "take or leave", but in this first position of Article 10, where you are talking again about buildings, or lines that have been built without a building permit and objects, or water that have been made on the basis of issued building permits, etc., where fees are later prescribed. If we link it to that member who's talking about Jelizara making his own commissions, your desire to speed it up as quickly as possible, even though for years someone's been working on these jobs, it can lead to real risks of whether it's really possible to legalize, legalize, whether it's possible in such a way to get a really correct document in the process that will confirm that this meets all the laws and all the other needs. Therefore, our fear is just about the fact that the excessive haste that will later take you into some court proceedings may be far more difficult to process than we have been going this way for all other persons. I say again, it really bothers me that the services that have been known for a year since the failure of privatisation, since September of last year, have not prepared documents that will be held in public debate, which will help you look at this problem from more angles and which will at least come before us today with documentation that is valid and will confirm that your intention is indeed correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51213	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51214	I understand your fear and time that you haven't had enough time or space to look at all aspects of this law in the past few days, but in any case, we as Government are responsible for it. We proposed to the Assembly. If most in the voting day decide to support this law and give us the mandate to realize the things you say will not be realized, and I tell you that they must be realised, because it is our only way to save Jellyzara, then don't at least help us with what you say – this will not be done and that you are proposing to the members of the laws in which it is said - is deleted. Say - we cannot participate in this, we do not want to be a part of it, we do not want to share responsibility with the majority in this House, and that is your full right. But don't propose amendments are deleted and in such a way to derogate everything we're trying to do. None of us were at the time of Jelizara's construction, and these problems are decades of problems, not a year, not two, not ten, not 15 last, decades of problems in Želizara Smederevo exist. We have to put an end to it because we're being pressured by the international community and our interests are in it, because we have to put the whole complex on the right feet and work, if we want to have it. Maybe one day the government will decide to close it all down. This government won't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51215	Thank you. The 11th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić, joint MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavićić and joint MPs Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Aida Ćorović and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51216	Here's Mr. Minister of the 11th, which, with the best of will, I have failed to put into your Lex specialis. I'll read it to the viewers so they know what it's all about. It says – all kinds of cost, that's the slag, that's tens of hundreds of millions of tons, those hills and mountains around Smedereva as a product in the iron production process of iron steel iron can be used as construction material that meets the requirements of Serbian standards for purpose to be used. There's one fifteen of these standards from preparation, by licking concrete aggregates, for butter, for highways, i.e. for asphalting. Further, you say – the cost holder created as an integral part of the production process of iron and steel where the primary objective was not the production of the same, may treat it as building material if he holds a contract concluded between the holder and the future user of the cost and report on the examination of the body accredited to assess compliance that meets the conditions set out in the standards etc. confirming that the costs tested meet all the requirements of the standard of purpose to be used. It's probably something profitable in this. This is going to sell. Wasn't the government able to sell it, but the one who bought Jellyzar must. He buys iron, buys iron, steel, lime. Why couldn't you materialize this? Is this going like an extenuating circumstance in Jellyzara? Why hasn't it been used as construction material so far, because it's an interesting last sentence. No law governing waste management shall apply to all types of expenditure of item 1 of this Article. Let's explain this article to me 11.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51217	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51218	The slag or cost that really stands in millions of tons around Smederev and real problems, everywhere in the world is used as building material or part of that material is processed through some kind of drive and technology, mainly used in the toll industry. The only thing with us that's been defined by law so far is that it's a waste, and then as a waste, you have special procedures for how you have to postpone it, how you have to keep it safe. We only had expenses on that. So by derogating this law, which defines waste and by putting the waste into the law, i.e. in the form of a useful model of this material as a by-product of the technological process that is happening in the ironworks, we will enable us to sell it exactly and to sell it in a much simpler way in the market itself, and the market for such a thing exists, to get rid of those surpluses and the pollution that we currently have around Jelizara. I don't know where you saw it in that part that we're gonna leave someone else, that's what we're gonna do. That's what we're going to do, we've got a short period of time to prepare it all, and we're going to commercialize everything that's possible from that material in order to sort out some of the costs that we have around this law. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: As a special firm or?) ) No, it will be done by Jelizar Smederevo now in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51219	Thank you. On the 12th in the same text, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić, joint MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavićić and joint MPs Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Aida Ćorović and Dragan Sutanovac together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51220	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this Article 12 has one sentence – supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the Ministry of Business Affairs. I, through all these procedures, have not seen what controls it, or at what point the executive ministry can interfere and do something. I don't know if you wanted to define your ministry in this case as a second-degree body. I don't get it. But here's this previous discussion of what's going to be done with the cost and not applying the law governing waste management, I think I need the Ministry of Ecology or perhaps the Ministry of Health to be involved in all of this, because it's not just an economic problem of what we're doing with that cost, but also an environmental, and a health problem. So it's a serious problem. You can tell on that case. You say we solve this by not applying the law. What rules are we going to apply? If the law doesn't apply, what is it? On what basis are they going to work and manipulate that cost specifically? So, the problem is these laws that define the applicable laws in the Republic of Serbia, no matter what the objective. If we don't know and say – in this case there is no law, then every citizen will think that there is no law that he doesn't like, that doesn't suit him. It's a bad message to the citizens of Serbia. This government offers a Lex specialise for all problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51221	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51222	The honourable Ministers also disputed this proposal to oversee the application of this law through the Ministry of Economy because it seems to me that all competences and procedures relating to the issue of building permits for the Law of Law, the work of local administrations related to urbanism, the state diameter and the cadastre, and at the local and republican level, for the first degree of complaints in the cadasar, for the second degree of complaints in the cataster, were also linked to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, and I think it was logical that the supervision of these jobs was also entrusted to the ministry that was entrusted to some management lines for these systems. I had a dilemma about the cost, in the availability of this resource, but given that most of these positions enter parts of the building material and that they have institutes and mechanisms to build these materials into buildings that are designed for construction with these materials, it also fits somewhere and writes that the supervision of this work is done by the ministry. It even made sense to me that through this lex specialis law, a special body will be educated to work on these tasks, given that time is needed, or that time is a key factor for you to go with this concept, then perhaps it was necessary to educate outside the ministry a special body that will speed up all these procedures and which will make sure that all the competent authorities and that all individuals in the management chain make quality and speedy decisions. So I think that the capacities in other ministries are far more professional, suitable for controlling the application of this law than the Ministry of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51223	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51224	Your thinking is absolutely correct, but we need to have one focus point. The focus point is the Ministry of Economy, because it normally controls the Zelezare Smederevo and according to all the legal regulations it is. This is not a dereogy of all the other laws and procedures that other ministries are conducting, so here I'm going to read to you just a piece of article 7 that we've already passed, but the story is about protecting the environment. It says – the permits obtained for a request, the so-called IPPC, in accordance with the law governing integrated prevention of environmental pollution control. So, just one of these elements, obtaining the permits of certain, which I have listed earlier, is activated by the realisation of the law that defines this area of environmental protection. So we did not in any way rule out any ministry in this process. On the contrary, all the ministries that can help work actively and have worked in preparing this law and will work actively in the coming days, in order to implement this law in the best and fastest way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51225	Thank you. On Article 13, the amendments were submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić, joint MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavić and joint MPs Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Aida Ćorović and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51226	The Honorable Chairman, Vice President of the Assembly, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I have two things to say. First, I'm glad to be the MP who submitted the amendment to delete article 13. Why? Because you wrote in that article 13 that the provisions of other laws that are in different ways governing the issues that are subject to the regulation of this law will not apply. And Article 2 in accordance with the position of 1st of this Article on buildings and waters for which the finding and conclusion of similarity to use are drawn up under this law, no legal process is conducted, nor is the process of obtaining the building permit provided for in the law governing the law of the facilities, i.e. planning and construction. So, when you, as a ministry and a government, are giving a bill that is also a lex specialis, you suggest that existing laws be derailed, it is not clear to me at all how we, as MPs who pass those laws, would be able to vote for such a member of the law and what it is. I think it is very important for Serbian citizens to know that at some point, there may be a possibility for those million and a half people who did not legalize their construction facilities, that it is possible that they will be able to use this kind of solution of lex specialis in certain conditions, either along the river or in some protected areas of power based on one law of lex spectilais, means this way, thinking to get. I'm not saying it arbitraryly, because, you know, it didn't take this force at all, especially not at six o'clock in the morning, but it just gives more right for people to suspect that something is going on that's not good, and regardless of your convictions, it won't change your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51227	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51228	Well, also, as my colleague said, I think this is an explanation of Article 13 in Article 1 where it is said that the provisions of other laws governing in a different way the subject of the regulation of this law will not be applied. So I think that the formulation itself is controversial, especially for this term -- in a different way they edit, I just don't think these 13 points are enough to solve the problem, and on the other hand to send a message that all the other laws that regulate this area aren't valid. In your previous address, you said that you would take advantage of the capacities of all institutions and that the application of this law does not derivate the work of other ministries and these institutions, so this member somehow explicitly denies it. The second point is said – according to the position of 1st of this Member for facilities and waters, which are in accordance with this law, finds the conclusion of a similarity for use, no legal procedure is conducted, etc. I think that the clear motive and intention of what you're trying to achieve is that this law is really a lex specialis, but somewhere denying all the other procedures and laws has led to the question of whether this law is good enough, quality and comprehensive enough to solve the problem the way you imagined it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51229	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51230	Article 13 is the heart of the law itself, and Lex specialis is exactly what it means to derivate certain members of some other laws in order to achieve its effect. The Law on Planning and Construction has 223 members defining different procedures. We with these 14 members only partially derivate some things in this law and a few other laws that matter. I didn't lie. All procedures, all standards, all rules apply in all those elements except in these 14 points of this law that we had to derivate elsewhere to speed up the procedure and get results in a short period of time. I hope I've made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51231	Members of the national parliaments Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karić, joint MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Aida Ćorović and Dragan Sutanovac together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51232	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, of course in accordance with the whole law and incredible haste, this article provides that the law will enter into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger". So, the constitutional standard of eight days for the law to come into force and we understand what is in this law and in one law is supposed to find one such proposal, it's this law. This law generally introduces some totally amazing deadlines, but as we consider it to be a bad law, we think it's a bad member, too. This is what this member will have – this law will probably be passed today. It is now seven in the morning, by the end of the day in a panic that we do not accidentally enter the last Thursday of the month and we do not have a chance here to ask the government questions the assembly majority will adopt this law and today, perhaps tomorrow, will go to the "Official Messenger" and enter into force on Friday. And there's that deadline, the shortest time of three days for local self-government to deliver a list of cadastrian parcels. If those people will get there, if they know it in the Dog, the Whisper, they know it, well, you may have tipped them off, you haven't told us anything. What will happen to them for the weekend, what they should do not break the law and have a list of parcels Monday at the latest. We repeat our position on why we are against this law is exactly what we disagree with you for saying earlier that it is necessary to derivate the applicable laws. If these laws aren't good, let's change them, let's not solve the problems of Lex specializing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51233	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51234	Mr. Minister, I really think that there have been far better times and far better ways for MPs and the public to get to know your idea and your intention to adopt this law in this way. We continue to express from the DS's club that this procedure, that it has not been specified what the property is, that the opportunities have been missed in a more comprehensive initiative of all institutions to solve this problem and in some way help to achieve this intention, that this opportunity has been missed. After all, I wish you many successes to force all those who may not have worked for years and it was their obligation to work on this job to make this work work, but we express our suspicion that there is no idea, there is no clear concept and that all this urgency and night in which we are discussing that she has not made a good enough contribution to make it easier for you to implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51235	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51236	Dear opposition MPs, you have expressed your fear, fears of some abuse, manipulation, probably based on everything that has happened in the past and all that your colleagues have done in previous years and left a devastating economy and a truly disastrous situation in our country's economy. We're not afraid of that. I am fully free and responsibly telling you that everything we do is in the best interest of our citizens. It's all public. You will be able to check every document and see how it is brought in and what will be done in the next process. Everything we've done in the privatisation process and everything we've done in other aspects of the economic sphere in the past year, we've done in extremely difficult circumstances, but we've achieved valuable results that are more appreciated abroad, unfortunately, than with us here. It would be better if we had more consent and worked together on the common well-being of all of us. I thank you in any case for the objections you have made, expressing in the extreme your concern for the results of this law, but we are responsible and we will continue to implement this for the entire duration of this government, and I am sure of the future government after the election. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51237	You have no right to a replica. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Čomić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Marko Đurišić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were together submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51238	Dear Ministers, as well as the other laws that we are discussing on this night, and for this law, and perhaps more than any other law, I must express my dissatisfaction that at six or half a morning we are discussing these laws, which, by this emergency procedure, these laws are being proposed in parliament, which we only had a few hours to talk about and we just had a big problem that and the technical services of all those amendments that we wanted to propose here, that they didn't simply arrive to do this. I think that's the atmosphere you've forced into accepting that this is how it's done...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51239	My colleague, let me tell you something, it's not the minister's fault that we're working now. It's not entirely his fault. Here, I'll tell you, it's the MPs and vice presidents of the Assembly, Igor Becic and Veroljub Arsic. It's our fault. We determine how the Assembly will work while we preside. Don't blame the minister for that. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51240	You see, if I were a minister, I would ask MPs and the public to help me solve the problem of private and public partnership, as one of the great development opportunities, not only of this society, but of local administrations and smaller communities. The very fact that the minister has stated in explaining this law that only 34 contracts since 2011 have been signed at various levels in this country according to this model is precisely in favour of the lack of opportunity and opportunity that we had as a society. And all the proposals put forward here in the law, and here it comes from this first member, for me is not a big enough turn in this direction that the next period will solve the issue, firstly, legal certainty for the postponement, secondly, investments by local administrations that I think are a great opportunity for these partnerships between the public and private sectors, that the relationship between the budget of local administrations, states etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51241	Time, colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51242	I think the transparency you've been paying attention to is important, but the very proposal for this law has missed the chance and the opportunity to work more seriously on this issue and to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51243	Thank you, colleague Markovic. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51244	In Article 2, we suggested that at point 6. where it is said – it can be established, replaced by words – found. So one of the cosmetic changes that are proposed here in law is related to this Article 2 which is not treated well enough. I think the formulation that we suggested is far better than you suggested. We accept that you have some other plans and I'm sorry you didn't adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51245	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic, Mr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) First you reported the MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51246	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, this is one of the key, I suppose, changes why the proposer has even proposed this law, which is to allow the possibility now, says point 7, in this Article 7 that is changing – the possibility of a public partner allowing the private partner to carry out commercial activity, as it has so far stood, and is now being added – or building other facilities in the context of the realisation of a public private partnership project. So this is an incredible change, which the Minister explained in the principle debate that this will help develop public private partnership projects, that it will now be interested investors privately to enter some projects that may, I say, not commercial. But what does this mean, gentlemen? So, you might give someone the right to enter into the business of a public private partnership to build roads, waterways or I don't know, some land, and then on that land based on this member, the possibility of this private partner building a hotel, a mall, a residential facility. There's no boundaries. So he can do anything, any object to build, that has nothing to do with the subject matter of concession, but only to build an object. Well, I can see you're nodding, but the law doesn't say that. You, in your explanation for not accepting this amendment, say that the subject of the project will be prescribed, but it does not stand in the law. The law says he can build an object and that's the only change this bill proposes. We're asking to wipe it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51247	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I go back to 3? You can't. You know what, buddy, it takes me about half a minute to read all the names, you had time to sign up. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51248	Yes, it is one of the most important members in the amendments to the Law on Public-private Partnership, but you will allow me how you have criticised me to defend our position, because any object that is given the right to build within the framework of a public-private partnership must be in the function of basic action, that is, what is proposed, which is approved by the Commission on the one hand. On the other hand, in Articles 27 and 29, there are exactly what the PPP project must contain from documents, from paperwork, administrative procedures and everything it needs to prove to us exactly that there will be no abuse within the public-private partnership, because these 34 projects that we have so far had very few projects and even fewer have made the effects we expected. That's why the law needs to be changed, so we need to make it simpler on the one hand, but more responsible and public partner, but also more responsible and private partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51249	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Đurišić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karić and joint MPs Natasa Vukković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51250	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, you've talked a lot about this member of the law in the principle debate and this is a member of the law that you are now proposing to delete the publication in an international list of calls, a public call. But here you have explained as if the publication of a public call is an obligation and that money will be saved, because the Financial Times was being published, which is, of course, expensive and that for certain projects, calls for public private partnerships that are of little value is too much cost. But, I'm sorry, the 22nd law that is now being amended in this attitude 3 says - a public call is being published, if necessary, in an international list. So, it doesn't have to, it doesn't have to, we're erasing this possibility now that maybe somewhere where there's a need to be published in an international list for some big project, to attract some serious investors. We do not understand why this member was needed, and we felt that it should be deleted, because the member leaves the possibility in itself, because he says – a public call is published as needed in one and in this electronic "Official Messenger", but if necessary, it is not mandatory, and this way, if you delete it, there will be no possibility that a serious call for a serious public private partnership project will be published in an international list. That is why we believe that the better solution that exists now in the law and our amendment to delete Article 10 is that it is absolutely acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51251	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go. You're giving up, all right. The word has a Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51252	In this way, we save the funds of local self-government because we have just come up with proposals to introduce one provision. It is our obligation to publish tenders to the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia, and this proposal to go to the "Tender Electronic Daily", which is practically the website of the EU Official Messenger. In this way, we provide full transparency of the process, but far less costs than it has been foreseen in the law so far that even in some way it was recommended that the Financial Times be announced by public tenders, which was indeed a big problem for our local self-governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51253	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 11th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51254	Dear Ministers, Article 11 speaks of procedures for the issuance of consent and work of institutions if a public partnership and private partnership agreement is concluded at local level, at the province level and it is said that the lectures of their opinion, meaning, the mandatory public and private partnership commission, are required to first obtain the opinion of the finance ministry. Given that you have particularly important objectives listed transparency in the implementation of these procedures, I consider it necessary for my colleagues from the DS Parliament Club to change the order of consent here and that, before giving consent to the Ministry of Finance, it is necessary for this commission to propose certain steps and solutions, and that the Ministry of Finance gives consent to these procedures. This hierarchy is more logical to me since if we want to increase the number of local administrations that will enter this process, the number of institutions that will sign private and public partnerships contracts is far better and easier for the commission to make proposals first, and then the Ministry of Finance gives consent to these procedures rather than for those who have worked on these jobs to get the opinion of the Ministry of Finance which was actually supposed to have this corrective or advisory role and function in these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51255	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51256	The Commission has a far greater number of obligations and businesses to regulate, therefore, all procedures must be controlled, risk factors must be calculated, all of them even elements related to environmental protection. So, you have a complete list of all the obligations that the commission has to deal with, the finance ministry, therefore, only for these projects that are foreseen with the scope of the public private partnership over 50m euros, give an opinion on the financial plan. So, it just gives its opinion and it is one alignment with the requirements and the international community in order to maintain in the future our high-level macroeconomic indicators because they are extremely important in attracting foreign investors to a public private partnership. We haven't had much experience with it so far. Local self-governments have not been trained in the best way to do such jobs, and only now do we develop different models and elements that need to help us enter with much more investment through a public private partnership, not through credit-lifting or guaranteeing. This is the basic meaning of the public private partnership, therefore, in addition to all these macro-economic and fiscal indicators. We know and we talked about it and you agreed that the private sector is much more efficient and far better working than the state administration and that is one joint work between public and private partnerships. So in this sense, we don't have cohesion here, and as it's written, it should go precisely because of the various obligations of the Public Private Partnership Commission, and what the Finance Ministry is doing is just financial control of the project over 50m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51257	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51258	Dear Ministers, there is a similar situation in this Article 12, and I really think that the great chance of the state and society and our institutions, that at this level, through this concept, they join together and solve many problems and I think it is the right thing to do to solve some of the financial problems that exist, the over-indebtedness of local administrations and so on, through this concept. I'm absolutely sure you've talked a lot about having problems at the local level and that, as you said in the principle debate, you have to have knowledge at the local level, the republican level, that's a process that needs to be intensified in some way, and that's quite clear. I think it is important for the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the state, to implement certain processes, but I am also absolutely sure if this is the reverse process, i.e. that local administrations, regional institutions, etc., can join together and propose certain models to which the Ministry of Finance will give its consent, that we will speed up some procedures. I think it's bad to also let local administrations in these private and public partnerships leave the monopoly, we talked about the Company Act today, and that citizens will certainly be exposed to great costs and risks if the issue of municipal waste is allowed to be resolved there on market conditions in the coming period and that the partner who enters this business is somehow provided through the high cost of storage and disposal of garbage that such things are being used and that the Ministry of Finance must limit certain restrictions. We at Užica, through the example of Deepo dump, where we were doing a project together with Cačka and other municipalities, have a price that is with credit and repayments of the 28 euro loan war for a postponement...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51259	Time for my colleague Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51260	And you have a case where a private partner came in, where that price is over 40 euros, and I think it should be those situations where the Ministry cuts things and forbids such... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51261	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51262	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, this member introduces the obligation to obtain the opinion of the finance ministry before giving its opinion, for projects whose estimated value is greater than 50m euros. We felt it was more appropriate for that amount to change to 25m euros. You didn't accept our amendment, with one explanation which is a very long sentence, which I may be, because now this is the time of the morning that it is, from several times reading I haven't quite figured out the point of that sentence. Do you think that the amount we propose is too small and that we will have a number of large amounts for public private partnerships in the future, so there is no need for the Ministry of Finance to give its opinion on projects worth less than 50m euros. I am not exactly such an optimist, I do not expect so many major projects in the future, I think, given the difficult state of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to declare for each project whose estimated value is 25m euros and more, and not 50 as you suggest. We think it would be better for the security of the budget and not to get into some situation as you like to speak, or, you know, the representatives of your party, that the country is in charge, I don't know what kind of debt you owe. In order for this to happen to us, if we had full control, we think that this amount should be reduced to 25m euros, that opinion by the ministry can be done relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51263	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51264	I think there's just a misunderstanding here about how to calculate the cost of the project. Therefore, the costs of the project and certain concessions, public private partnership or whatever they call it, not only implies the initial costs necessary in the first year or in years of implementation, although they are one year, two or three until the full effects of certain technological processes are achieved, but a complete period of award of concessions that can be between five and 50 years. Today, you have small local projects worth 25 or 30 years, so between 80 and 100m euros, so all the costs that are being made at that level, and because of the Ministry of Finance, it was also considered appropriate to limit 50m euros, which in such projects is a very low price, and for that kind of thing, we got an opinion and agreement, so from the World Bank and the IMF, that this is exactly the limit, on which the Ministry of Finance will give its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51265	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51266	Dear Ministers, in essence, another proposal to consider instead of the ministry's formulation and opinion on the financial affairs, the ministry's consent and why these motives are and why I think that's good. In some of the experiences we had, let's say, at the construction and in the private and public partnership of the pipeline, Užice, through the city, several local authorities, worked on the job since 1999, 2000, and participation was made by the Republic, and by private partners, and by companies such as Valjanica aluminium and copper, Serbiagas, but this private public partnership between the town of Užica and the company "Unity". So, the job has been done for years, but we've come into a lot of trouble during the realisation of this job and there's been a lot of temptation and there's been a crisis, and there's been a problem, and we're getting into a situation where local administration is very easy, and many local administrations have made problems, they've been wrong, they've stopped projects, and it could have been a situation for this job to be stopped. I think there's a crucial role for the state to take right through granting consent and in some ways guaranteeing to whoever enters the business as a partner, and the city, that at some point this job will certainly be completed. If you only have an opinion on the financial structure as stated here, then you are in a situation that at a certain point without the support of the state, which is through the vision and form of consent, assumes certain obligations and a very high risk of such similar jobs being unfinished. We have in this situation that for three or four years the city has not made a dividend, after a job has been done to build technical things related to the network, precisely because there is no procedure for handing over the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51267	I understand what you were going to say, and the first example you took from Užica is not a public private partnership, because it was implemented in early 2000, but our first Public Private Partnership Act was just adopted in 2011 and this framework and everything that needs to be realized. As far as this is concerned, the commission agrees. A member of the commission is also a representative of the Ministry of Finance and is a binding opinion of the Ministry of Finance, that the overall result is seen and that the finality of the project's examination is given by the commission and is also a state body that clearly knows what it must do, who are members of the commission and which is its responsibility in the final result in order for a particular private public partnership to come into effect. We don't have any concerns about the Ministry of Finance being announced in any way, but the opposite gets a much bigger role than it has had to date and control all cash flows and costs during that period, up to 50 years it will be able to look at all aspects of this project. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51269	I thank you, Mr. Sertic, for participating in today's session with you and your associates. We will wait just a moment for Minister Vujovic to enter the hall. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The minister will be in the O.R. any minute. I'll just read the amendment and give a word to your MP group when the minister enters the O.R. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic, and together by Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinković, master of Dr Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karić, and together Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandar Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. A break for a few moments, just a minister to get into the O.R. [[after breaks]] Here you go, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment to Article 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51271	Thank you, Chairman. Article 1, the proposal for our amendment is to delete Article 1. Why? Article 1 provides for an amendment that instead of the current obligation of the tax administration to quarterly publish on its website a list of taxpayers per day, the last day in that quarter for debtors, legal persons with a debt greater than 20 million, or individuals, or entrepreneurs with a debt of more than five million. To change that now and to publish it twice a year on the last day of that semester. Perhaps it would be Mr. Minister for us and acceptable if it wasn't for these words – yes. It could mean, it could, maybe not. Our concern is that by accepting, adopting these amendments to the law will happen more than yes. And that what was an idea, and what the minister was refusing our amendment said was not achieved, and that is the idea that tax debtors face a negative public relationship with them, that we will give up this public pressure on the highest taxpayers and thus perhaps improve tax collection. Is it possible that because they are the best friends of this government, they are also the biggest taxpayers and that their names will be on these lists more and more often, so they want to hide, so it won't be awkward for the prime minister and ministers to take pictures with the same taxpayers?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51272	Mr. Djurishic, would you like some change?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51273	I've been talking about the amendment all along, Mr. Becic, even though it's half past 8:00 in the morning, and if I've been waiting for the minister a few minutes after 12 hours of debate. Don't let me talk about the amendment because I was just talking about the amendment... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51274	Okay, they'll assess Serbia's public opinion. The amendment reads in the Tax Procedure Act, Tax Administration, Correction, Correction, Members, the word "courtal" is replaced by the words "two times a year" and the words "in the last month of the quarter" are replaced by the words "this half-year". Now let the public assess what this has to do with your exposure. Please, the word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51275	Thank you very much. I thank you for your comment, and I agree with the essence of your proposal. There will be another amendment that is exactly what you said, which focuses on the words "can" and I suggest that this amendment be accepted, not deleted. So let's wait a few minutes for that amendment to appear, and it seems to me that Mr. Homen has proposed the amendment, so I agree with the essence of your discussion and will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51276	Mr. Vujovicu, did you accept this amendment? (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: No, each other. You have to wait, you've confused the service, because it warns me that you mentioned accepting the amendment, but I didn't understand it that way. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51277	I propose that the amendment submitted by Mr. Slobodan Homen in which the word "can" is deleted in our text means that it remains "published twice a year". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51278	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic and a group of MPs from Boris Tadic and joint MPs from the Democratic Party group. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51279	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, finally, at the end of this debate, here is evidence that the submission of amendments to delete a certain member of the law is also worth it. We have also welcomed this moment first to accept one of over 40 amendments to the proposals of all these laws that we have had. The previous one was submitted by colleague Homen, so he gave that opportunity to just delete this part of the word "can" that was not in this report on accepted amendments, but we are glad that it happened here at the session, but we are glad that this amendment was also accepted. What's this about, Article 4? It is that the bill provided for the transfer of matters to the competent state authority on the basis of acts adopted by the Government may settle the tax debt. It was interesting in the principle debate, you Mr. Minister, you weren't there, but a lot of MPs praised this institute. We were against it, and we thought it shouldn't exist, because it wasn't clarified until the end, it wasn't worked out. What does handing things over mean? Who estimates the value? What's going on with these things? Who's running them? Are they used, sold? All this was unclear and it was good that the government had accepted this amendment. It is somewhat unusual that the government adopted the bill on Saturday, and then on Monday, it was praised by MPs, and then on Tuesday, the government decided to give up this solution. We're doing everything fast. This amendment to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is the seventh amendment to this law over the last four years. It is very difficult to monitor these changes and the government's intention and clear government policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51280	Time. Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Members of the 5th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic and MP Boris Tadic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51281	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, this is an amendment that is in line with the acceptance of this previous amendment to erase the possibility of handing over matters to the competent national authority atones the tax debt. I say once again, a little satisfaction at the end of the day that some of our solutions for which we have fought for more than 12 hours this night have been accepted by the government and will not be part of the law that this ruling majority will adopt. But unfortunately, I fear that the other solutions and the other laws that we have discussed, which the assembly majority will adopt today, are not good for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51282	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. Members of the 6th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51283	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this member speaks of the terms of the suspension of the payment of the tax due. You're saying in Section 4, there's an opportunity to grant a postponement of payment of the due war tax, but for up to 60 months at most. We suggested that those 60 months remain as the ultimate goal, as the deadline. However, we have tried to classify the debtors so that our amended position is – the decision of the 3rd member can authorise the postponement of payment of the debt tax on wars and for a microlegal person up to 60 months, for a small legal person up to 48 months, for a medium legal person up to 36 months and for a large legal person up to 24 months. The amendment proposes the possibility to postpone payment of the debt tax on wars, starting from the classification of legal persons under the Accounting Act, and essentially from economic power and the practical state of affairs in an economic and legal environment which has different and causes and effects on the business of different forms of legal entities. When determining the period for payment of the war, we set out the criteria for the classification of legal persons the average number of employees, business incomes, as well as the average value of business assets, different categories of legal entities. The solution given in the bill favors large legal persons in the first place, where we have proposed a functional, efficient and fairer solution by amendment, and I ask you to explain to me why you think everyone is in the same situation, that they should all be given an equal period of 60 months and not make a difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51284	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51285	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe the promoter had a good intention of exchanging opinions here and reaching the best solution, but the deadlines proposed by the promoter for micro 60, for small 48, for medium 36, and for large enterprises, for large taxpayers 24 months. I'd be willing to support this, but there's a second question, big debtors. They're expected to be the biggest inflows. If we cut their deadline, if they don't pay their tax debts, then we're at risk of not paying for it at all. With the government's proposal, if it remains 60 months for all taxpayers, we in such a situation have the same conditions, the long micro, small legal persons are also very important to their business. I believe that with the effort they will also be able to pay, as the large taxpayers will have the effort to reconcile it within 60 months, within five years, and with that in connection, they will also give adequate funds to security. I believe that tax debtors, these big ones, owe the most tax and that it is in our interest to charge these biggest sums if they were to cut short, they would go bankrupt and the question is what would the state charge, if we gave them the opportunity to charge, that they would recover and the duty of the tax administration and the finance ministry would not only give the taxpayer a break, but also allow him to pay, or that they could retax it and in some way give him a chance to recover. You can cut the sheep more than once if you're careful, and only skin it once, so can tax bonds. I believe the 60-month deadline for large, medium-tax debtors is the same as for small and micro, that it's an appropriate deadline, given that these are expected to make the biggest payments in the next five years. I believe that in continuity they will pay, and I believe that this government, which is now, that is, the ruling majority, will have the opportunity to pay in the next term, and also that mandate afterwards, and I believe that those in the shadows will be able to do so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51286	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51287	First, thank you for the proposal and thank you for the discussion. I want a first sentence just to point out - general approach. So, the general approach is to start with a fundamental reform of the tax administration and to place a higher obligation on tax inspectors, tax inspection, or tax administration as a whole, to assess the ability of each of the taxpayers. What you're proposing would be the approach of someone in which we share taxpayers in certain groups. What we're proposing is a wider approach to 60 months, i.e. Five years, but the tax administration determines, as we wrote in the explanation, that this depends on the amount of tax owed and the economic capacity of the taxpayer. If you look at the data, the detailed data that we've been discussing for months with various groups of taxpayers who have been in debt for several years, from that tax reprogramme, we've adopted two principles. One is that we solve this through the General Tax Procedure Act, not individual exclusions, and the other is that we transfer a great burden of assessment to a tax administration that has to be responsible for assessing and defining it for everyone. It just means that some small bonds will be given 24 months or 36 months, or 60, but also some large, too, if there is a small one in debt. In relation to its economic potential, it will not get 60 months, it will get 24 months as minimum by law or 26, or 30 or 40, etc. So the burden of grading is transferred to the tax administration and we'll make sure it's done specifically. According to each taxpayer, we want to increase tax revenues, we don't want to kill taxpayers, we want to increase the incomes of state and budget and thus help everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51288	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. The 7th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the people Milan Petrovic. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 7th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51289	So, Article 7 is talking about the means of security. In the first position, it says - in the process of deciding to postpone the payment of the tax due under Article 73 paragraph 3 of this Act, the taxpayer is required to provide funds for the payment security that cannot be less than the amount of the tax due, whose payment is delayed, and then you talk about what can all be a means of security. In the sixth position, you say - especially from Article 1 to 5 of this article, the taxpayer is not required to fulfil the conditions laid down by the Government in Article 73(2) of this Act, nor is the provision of payment security funds, if the tax due under Article 73(3) of this Act, on the basis of all the public revenue charged by the tax administration, on the date of submission of the application for the deposit of their payment, amounts to a million dinars for legal persons, for entrepreneurs of 200 thousand, for natural persons 100 thousand, and you are now proposing that it be for legal persons and entrepreneurs up to a million and a half dinars and for a natural person up to 200 thousand dinars. We have suggested that for legal persons and entrepreneurs it be three million dinars and for natural persons up to 400,000 dinars, because you will agree that security funds are an additional cost, anyway, already burdened by a businessman, so by raising the scale, i.e. By increasing the amount that is limited, to somehow meet these people who are looking for a reprogramme and not additionally burdening them with security funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51290	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. Do you want to follow this amendment, Mr. Minister? (No) National MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 9th amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 13th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the group, Boris Tadic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51291	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted the amendment to Article 13th and 8th. This Article 13 regulates the basics, i.e. the way in which payment will be made to the taxpayer. We have provided that Articles 7 and 8 are deleted, and Article 9 is amended and it reads: “If the taxpayer does not comply with the terms of the agreement or the decision to postpone the tax due, in a way that does not settle the two consecutive wars or otherwise grossly violate the obligations, the tax administration will, by official duty, cancel the agreement, or abolish the settlement and the unpaid tax, including the unpaid interest on that debt, pay out of the security funds, i.e. by means of a compulsory payment procedure.” We have been given reason to believe that this amendment of ours is not accepted for the reason that the legislator considers that the solution that has been given is more celery. However, we believe that, given the situation, i.e. the economic situation of the population and the general state, the efficiency of the work of the tax administration, is much more appropriate for our solution and it does not reduce the possibility of paying back the debt, but it provides the possibility for a person to decide within a longer period, or within a more appropriate time, to settle his obligations and thus become a useful and socially responsible member of our community. We believe that this amendment of ours can be accepted, as before in the article. 4 and 5, because nothing fundamentally changes the view, and it makes it easier for those who need to be at peace. Still, I think the goal is to get as many amendments, or money, in the register as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51292	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51293	Thank you very much. I thank you for your suggestion. We've been discussing this law for months, even though it came to the Assembly just before the end. Talks with different categories of debtors have been practically held since December of last year, primarily the taxi drivers were the most agile in the conversation. We, of course, because we're working with other entities and international organisations, have had a lot of detailed discussions on what to do in this law and to get together, not to send a signal at the same time that it gives way to tax discipline, to forgive without a basis. We don't want to send other taxpayers the wrong signal. The idea is to meet to continue paying and maintain tax discipline. These attitudes are therefore an important part of that approach. So, to keep paying current obligations and write-offs, each write-off takes place after a certain number of payments have been made, once a year after 12 consecutive payments. We think your proposal might have been, if we'd had it in mind earlier, but I think it would have broken the signal. Going out too much to meet would mean giving the wrong signal. We have assessed, looking at very specific data for each category, that the tax administration within 60 months and the method of firing interest will have the possibility of dimensionalizing it according to the requirements of the debtors. If so, then we think that after that we should insist on the discipline of meeting these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51294	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Mr. Blagoja Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51295	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, our amendment is to fundamentally change the approach of taxpayers who have acquired the right to postpone payment of the main tax debt. Your proposal implies that they turn to the Tax Administration in writing in order to obtain the right to change the way in which they pay off their debt, and our proposal is to notify them by official duty of the Tax Administration that they have acquired the right under the new law. You, in your explanation for not accepting our amendment, say that this principle of automation, that is, the conduct of the Tax Administration by official duty, in terms of determining the right to postpone payment of the tax due, has proved to be lacking in the previous period. I mean, in general, that principle would be better than what we have today. I think that people would take more seriously the obligation to pay taxes and other taxes to the state, if they saw that this state was treating them responsibly and that, when they acquired some right, the state would inform them that they had acquired the right and that they could easily make use of that right. Now, we have a situation where citizens or taxpayers, in this case, may not even be familiar with the fact that they've been given some rights and won't be able to achieve those rights. I generally think the work of the Tax Administration in Serbia is bad. We've talked about this many times. And you were saying here that there's a lot to be done to improve. We have therefore proposed this change, as a change in the relationship between the state and the taxpayers, that the state is not some supernaturally alienated body that is only there to force fear and panic into the bones of citizens, but that it is there as a service of citizens and to help them achieve their rights as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51296	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51297	I'm going back to the beginning, although these may be details, the essence is very important here. So we want to modernise the tax administration and change it so that it just comes out to meet the taxpayers where it can, where it's justified and then it's strict in applying what's agreed on. That means that it's minimally done by automation, and in any case it's done on the basis of an actual assessment. Information will be received by all taxpayers, but the process is initiated by the taxpayer coming to the Tax Administration, it is harder for us, but it is a more responsible approach, to look at each subject and define. Some left with two wars, some left with 15 wars, many passed through January 1st this year to pay off these 24 wars. So they paid off 14 wars now already, they only have 10 wars. All will be informed by post that the provisions of the new law are such that they allow a reprogramme, but they themselves will have to come to show documents, evidence of their economic power, and they will be measured how much they should pay the tax. I think automation is an old approach, this is a new approach. It increases the necessary effort, analysis and assessment of the Tax Administration, places more responsibility on the IRS, but it seems to me that it makes it clear to everyone that there will be no more indulgence, there will be no oversight, there will be no holes in the application of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-23-0.u51298	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic and Dragan Sutanovac. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 13th point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Head I and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter III and Article 3 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter III and Article 4 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 1 and Article 6 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 7 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. On behalf of Section 3 and Article 8 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. On behalf of Section 4 and Article 9 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. On behalf of Section 5 and Article 10 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The names of section 6 and Article 11 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter IV and Article 12 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of section 1 and Article 13 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Chapter V and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. On behalf of Chapter VI and Article 17 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The names of section 1 and Article 18 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 19 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The names of section 3 and Article 20 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 4 and Article 21 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. On behalf of Section 5 and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter VII and Article 24 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter VIII and Article 26 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Head IX and Article 27 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law to protect the population from infectious diseases. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Head I and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Chapter II and Article 4 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Jankovic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter III and Article 9 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of Chapter IV and Article 14 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 1 and Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 17 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The names of members and members of the 18th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members and members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of the members and members of the 21st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 24th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of the member and member of the 26th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 39th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members and members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 45th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 47th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members and members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of section 3, the name of the member and member of the 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The names of members and members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members and members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Section 4, the name of the member and member of the 54th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members and members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members and members of the 56th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 64th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Chapter V and Article 66 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 68th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 70th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Chapter VI and Article 73 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Chapter VII and Article 77 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 80th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The 83rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 85th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Chapter VIII and Article 86 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, February 24, 2016, starting at 12:00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I thank Minister Vujovic and the cabinet members. I thank all the MPs and continue voting at 1200 hours.
