ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49705	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 100 MPs present in the hall and that we have working conditions. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 7th item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE DISGUISE OF THE RESISTANCE OF THE IMPLEMENTS OF THE HOLOCAUSTS WITHOUT THE LIVE LIVE LAWDERS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs, as well as by the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have also received a report from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Bauer. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49706	Thank you. Just a few words, respected ministers with associates, we have suggested that changes be made that are more technical than essential, it seems to us that this formulation that we have given is clearer and more precise and I thank the minister for understanding, our intensity and our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49707	Thank you. The National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Dragan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? The word of the peoples is the Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49708	Ladies and gentlemen, I also said in principle that we MPs had no objection, not even the languages of the legislative projects we are talking about here, but as I have read all the amendments, all the MPs, and, of course, the government's reply, or the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted, or reasons for accepting, or not accepting the amendments. The amendment that DS MPs have submitted to Article 3 is a very good amendment in my court and remains now to see in one of our discussions here what might be more precise to use as a particular formulation in terms of the provisions and the spirit of this law. The promoter wrote the following – that the name of Article 3 should be the concept of Holocaust, and then in one position it says – for the purposes of this law, the Holocaust represents the time from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945 in which the occupation and its associates in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia systematically persecuted and killed members of the Jewish community, etc. The amendment promoters, I think, also proposed a good formulation that related to perhaps a more precise definition of how the Holocaust should be understood and they put the first name of the member to be a consequence of the Holocaust, and then suggested that in one position it was written – the consequences of the Holocaust within the meaning of this law refer to this time already in the text of the promoter during which the occupation systematically persecuted, killed, destroyed, seized the property of the Jews. What's the difference? I think in definition, and here I agree with Mr Selakovic with the amendments, because when we read your proposal, then we're talking about the Holocaust for a while, and you're saying, in the spirit of this law, and it's to define it that way, and I don't think it would be awkward for the Holocaust to define itself as one program based on a criminal idea and a doctrinally based criminal idea to systematically destroy, or destroy a people, and then the consequences of this Holocaust to be linked to the exact time that we are dealing with in this legislative project. That's one thing. And the other thing, I think that talking about what is some criminal policy or program that is doctrinally based on crime, is always convenient that each of us here once again, if he's been able to say that there's not one person in our National Assembly who might be thinking about promoting, encouraging or relativating anything about any program that advocates some people, which would imply the possibility that some people are working in harmony with such a program. It seems to me, gentlemen, that we here have done one good thing that is in the spirit of our parliamentaryism, that all 250 who sit here are determined that every time an idea appears, an idea, a hint of an idea, that would direct anyone towards fascism, to Nazism, to racism, to respond necessarily, to stand up to advocates of such ideas and to fight together for some civilizational, democratic value. In that sense, I would like to declare one more thing and the right to tell you, to give one commendation and congratulations to Minister Selakovic, which in principle also made it very clear here that Milan Nedic was undoubtedly the leading man of a Quislin regime in Serbia, in a certain period and said that this was the actions of Nedic, which many people can read about, to listen to, many participate in the debates, indeed anything in history needs as representatives of their people to be ashamed of. It is, I think appropriate either to say here, and in that sense, I wanted to remind all of us once again that, acting here in the legislative body, we keep in mind the ideas and values that should guide us in our actions, and that some ideologies like the Nazis should never get the right recognition in the public sphere. I considered it appropriate for the ministers to announce this and for our amendment debate. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49709	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49710	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I would support my previous colleague, the Honorable Doctor, everything he said about the persecution, the murders, that this should not be promoted, I sign everything. But there are various persecutions, various crimes, no need to share them. Crime is a crime. Killing a man is a crime. I'm talking about a holocaust, but it would be okay if we said so, and the previous speaker knows that it's not okay for the people of one nation to force them into another country and rip out their organs. It looks very much like the Holocaust, even in some parts and worse than that. Well, if someone writes that those who led them are a peaceful cosmopolitan organisation, and it is a professor of security, and if in the same textbooks state that Serbs have committed sexual terrorism in Kosovo, then that is the reason for the concern of all of us, because simply those facts do not stand. But if a doctor, who held a lecture here, supports such a person and even when she was retired, and this is Mrs Dragana Dulic, asks the appeal that she does not retire, then it is worth considering our actions in Parliament and out of Parliament when we were in the LDP and when we entered Parliament and thought that those who had forgotten what someone was doing before entering the sanctuary of democracy. We need to talk about the naked island. When someone was a party friend of the founder of the Golog Island, Jova Kapicic, who killed, I don't know how many people, gentlemen, comrades and friends, at the end of the day someone was with them at the same party, it would be their turn to talk in LDP, I think, it would be my turn to talk about these crimes, because for me it's a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49711	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. I gave my word to Mr. Martinovic, so we'll decide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we are about this Article 3. The bill, had a very constructive discussion at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which was held a few days ago, and this is in fact the formulation proposed by Mrs Gordana Komic. We also talked about it at the Committee's session. I think the government did the right thing, because it proposed to the National Assembly to reject the amendment of a group of DS MPs to Article 3. The bill, because throughout the bill it is very clear that the concept of holocaust has to be interpreted in the context of the law. The Holocaust, as a phenomenon, as a historical phenomenon, involves the systematic extermination of members of the Jewish people, which occurred, of course before 1941, or before 6 April 1941, primarily in the territory of Hitler's Germany and the countries occupied by Germany, but we must bear in mind one thing, which is the territorial validity of the law. So this law refers to the Holocaust that happened at the premises of today's Republic of Serbia. So this law has no claim to remove the consequences of the Holocaust throughout Europe, nor is that possible. This law has a claim to remove the consequences of the Holocaust that happened in the area of today's Republic of Serbia, and in that sense, I think the government's argument is in place. Of course, I don't think at all that the DS colleagues had any bad intentions, I think I understand what they wanted to achieve in this formulation, but it seems to me that the formulation in the bill is much better, and it is very clear that the state of Serbia is actually going to remove, first of all, the consequences of the holocausts that took place in the area of today's Republic of Serbia. In which case, there are a few things to consider. First, today's Republic of Serbia is neither in territorial nor political terms the same as Serbia between 1941 and 1945, and I also talked about it in principle. So, between 1941 and 1945, in terms of international law, Serbia did not exist. Therefore, there was a Kingdom of Yugoslavia occupied by Germany, Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, which should take into account another point in international public law, which is a rule under the Fourth Hague Convention of 1907, which stipulates that the state does not cease to exist by the act of occupation of its territory. In fact, the Germans were referring to the so-called. "Debelation theory", when you occupy a country, it ceases to exist. Our government, government in London and our allies and the Americans and the British and the Free French De Gaulle Movement, and finally the Soviet Union, refused to accept the theory of obesity, and for them there was only Yugoslavia, which to the end was occupied, but which had its legal and legitimate head of state, King Peter II Karadjordjevic and who had its legal and legitimate government, whose headquarters was once in London, and for a time in Cairo. Afterwards, sometime since 1943, we have faced the appearance of two governments and then the question of the state's recognition has no longer been raised. All recognised Yugoslavia's territorial integrity, but raised the question of government recognition. In fact, the legitimacy of the royal government in London has been questioned, and Josip Broz Tito, the KPJ and the Partizan movement insisted that AVNOJ, its executive body, i.e. the executive body AVNOJ, was later the Government of the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia, in fact the legitimate Government of Yugoslavia, and not the Government of London. In that sense, Serbia did not exist internationally between 1941 and 1945. What was called Nedic's Serbia, in a territorial sense absolutely does not correspond to today's Republic of Serbia. So Nedic's Serbia did not include Vojvodina, rather it did not include Srem and Baka. Formally, Nedic's Serbia included Banat, but Nedic did not have effective authority in Banat. Effective government in Banat was owned by Folksdojcers and also by Nedic's Serbia did not have in territorial terms what is called Raska, or what some call Sadzak. So, even in a territorial sense, what was called Serbia in World War II did not correspond to today's Republic of Serbia. What I think is important to point out, since we are these days by MPs, and even some parties of the ruling coalition, we from the SNS have suffered some kind of imputation to advocate the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic or any other person from World War II, I simply want to point out that this is not true. So, I also said in the principle debate that we should leave it to the competent court to assess whether it was, i.e. whether there are conditions for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic. That's primarily one question for the court. We as individuals can have our own opinions about his role in World War II, about the political circumstances in which he accepted to be president of the so-called World War II. Serbian governments of national salvation. But, after all, the question of whether there are conditions for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic is a matter for the court. Personally, I think the court will have a problem, I don't know if Minister Selakovic agrees with me, I think the court will have a purely procedural problem. Milan Nedic, as far as I know, has not been formally declared a war criminal by a court ruling. Milan Nedic ended his life, at least according to the official version of OZNA, by committing suicide in a military prison in Belgrade, jumping out the window on February 4, 1946. Therefore, there is no judgment. What's there is, it's documents called so-called documents. The state commissions to determine the crimes of the occupier and his assistants. There was a federal state commission and there were republican commissions in the republics. Milan Nedić's name was on the list of war criminals and the State Commission for the Identification of Crimes of Occupiers and his assistants, with the State Commission not being a court, but rather a kind of administration body. It was the curiosity of the communist Yugoslavia, that the government's authority could declare someone a war criminal, but that's how things look factographic. We also had a dilemma on the board, specifically Mrs Gordana Komic. We talked about it at the board meeting. It was clear on April 6, 1941, so on April 6, Germany and its allies launched an attack on the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It was conditional on some historical considerations surrounding the date of May 9, 1945. In fact, again in fact, the Republic of Serbia was released long before 9 May 1941. On May 8th 1945, the Yugoslav Army took over Zagreb, and on May 15th, General Costa Nadj sent that famous laxish deputy to Josip Broz – Comrade Tito, the war was over. It is usually taken as the date of completion of war operations in Yugoslavia on 15 May. The Republic of Serbia itself, this current Republic of Serbia, not Nedic's Serbia from 1941 to 1945, was freed by its largest work in the autumn of 1944, so that the Holocaust could not have happened in most parts of today's Republic of Serbia after the fall of 1944. Given the fact that it is May 9th that Europe also marks as the Day of Victory over Fascism, and the fascists were the ones who performed the Holocaust over the Jews, I think in a symbolic sense the government did well what it suggested to be on May 9, 1945. I just want to say a few more things, and I hope that's why no one's going to misread me. I have the impression that some MPs, in order to prove their free and anti-fascist commitment, which I fully support, somehow need to load, put on the backs of dead people around whom there are numerous historical controversys, many burdens both necessary and unnecessary. Somehow we Serbs have this need to represent ourselves in a worse light than some others do. I also heard in the principle debate and before the principle debate, when there was a rally in front of the Supreme Court on Timoko Street, when two small groups of people gathered, one were for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic, the other opposed. As much as this topic is not fundamentally interested in Serbian citizens, today it also tells the fact that there were relatively few people on both sides, you will agree. It's something that, I think, Serbian citizens don't see as a priority. The priority of all citizens, the government's priority is economics, the creation of new jobs, raising citizens' living standards, better conditions for our children's lives, that's what citizens of Serbia are interested in today. Historicians should first and foremost be interested in the role of Milan Nedic, Josip Broz, Draže Mihailovic, Kosta Pecanac, Dimitri Ljotic, and now I don't list them all, all the people who marked Serbia and Yugoslavia's history in World War II in one way or another. But, I'm saying, I have the impression that some of our MPs have this need to burden their own people with some sort of guilt complex for what happened in World War II without any interruption. The largest number of Jews in Serbia killed the German hand, not the Serbian hand, the German hand killed it. Belgrade has been declared and Serbia has been declared a "judne fraj" city, i.e. "judne fraj" country, thanks to the fact that 90% of the Jews killed the Germans, i.e. German occupiers, not Serbs, or Chetniks, or non-Nedicians, and I have no question that a number fell from the Serbian hand. Why am I saying this? I have not heard any MPs busing into the heroic breasts of anti-fascism and freedom, reacting to the fact that, for example, I hope that no one will misread me, that the current minister of culture in the current Croatian government was photographed with a Ustasha cap. Nobody said anything about that. In 1996, the newspapers called "Independent State of Croatia", which were published in Zagreb by the Croatian Liberation Movement, led by the brother-in-law Ante Pavelic, Srecko Pšeničnik. I haven't heard a single MP say a single word about this subject. I heard that we Serbs were killing Jews, that we were villains, criminals, that we organized the Old Fair, etc., which is not true, but I didn't hear a single word about the master's scandal, as it was called, Zlatko Hasanbegovic, who probably has a problem with his national identity, so one day for Ustasha, the other day is not, one day for NDH, and then it's not, and then it says, antifascism is in the foundations of today's Croatia, and then it says - it's not true. So these are very dangerous statements, very dangerous messages. I'm surprised none of the MPs found themselves saying a word of encouragement to Serbs living in Croatia. Imagine how a Serb in Zagreb, a Serb in Split, a Serb in Osijek, a Serb in Vukovar when he knows that the culture minister is someone who publicly propagates Ustasha ideology, who publicly says that NDH was a legitimate state-class creation. It is the same thesis that Franjo Tudjman said at that first assembly of the Croatian Democratic Community in 1990, that NDH was not only a Quislin formation, as he said, and a fascist crime, but a result of the historical struggle of the Croatian people for its country. I haven't even heard in Croatia that it bothers anyone very much. I have not heard any MPs in the Serbian Parliament. Here, if I didn't say it now, no self-proclaimed and world's greatest anti-fascist here has said it. I don't understand the need for us Serbs to represent ourselves worse than we are. I am taking this opportunity to congratulate the government of the Republic of Serbia, and Aleksandra Vukic and Nikola Selakovic, which are finally the first Serbian politicians to send a clear and unequivocally message to The Hague tribunal that Serbia is not a rag with which someone can erase their dirty traces of the breaking of the former Yugoslavia. Imagine what would have happened if, for example, how many Serbs had died in Cheveningen to support the prison sentence, if that had happened to a Croat? It would rise to both Croatia and Croatia's diaspora. Serbs died in The Hague and during Vojislav Kostunica, Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic, but no one said anything about it. And I really congratulate you, Mr. Selakovic, and I congratulate the Prime Minister for finally getting some courage and saying, "people, what are you doing there?" The government of the Republic of Serbia guaranteed on 8 October 2015 that General Zdravko Tolimir is being treated in Serbia because man is seriously ill. He was arrested by being transferred from Belgrade to Republika Srpska by half-dead and then said he was arrested by Republika Srpska police in Bratunc, which was a notorious lie and everyone knew it. And it has not yet been enough, but a half-dead man dies in The Hague tribunal since October 2015, and since October 2015 in the UN tribunal drawers and drawers, you have a guarantee with the signature of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, who guarantees that there are conditions that Zdravko Tolimir is temporarily released for treatment in the Republic of Serbia. The death of Zdravko Tolimir was now due to take place, so that the state of Serbia would finally talk about the double arches of The Hague tribunal. Why don't we take care of it for a while? Why aren't we dealing with this subject a little bit? Why am I saying all this? I don't want anyone to get me wrong. I don't mean anything ugly. The crime happened. I wish he wasn't here. Where good luck that there was no World War II, that there was no occupation of Yugoslavia, and that there were no horrors in the Independent State of Croatia, and in Nedic's Serbia, and in Kosovo and Metohija, Macedonia, in the Raška area and who knows where. I wish you good luck. But it happened. The Serbian Progressive Party condemns them and there is no one in the SNS who will find one single word of justification for killing innocent people -- Jews, Roma, Serbs, Croats, Muslims, it doesn't matter. But I don't understand the need for some of our people to carry a burden on the back of the Serb people that doesn't belong to him. The number of people, this well knows Minister Selakovic, who was ideological in Serbia for fascism, it was one minute handful of people, you didn't have in Serbia the massive fascist movement that existed in Germany, Italy, Spain, Poland, the Independent State of Croatia, etc. You had hot heads, of course, and in Serbia, but their number was far less. The Serbian people have mostly been defined for two anti-fascist movements. And that's our great tragedy, that we Serbs killed each other most of the time. The Yugoslav Army in the country and the People's Liberation Army of Yugoslavia – the most Serb heads fell there, perhaps more than the Ustasha arm. Let me get back to the amendment. The government did well to reject this amendment, which I do not question at all that the amendments' intentions were bad, on the contrary. But given the territorial validity of the law, I think that the law formulation is better and that the state of Serbia is actually correcting one injustice that happened to the Jewish people in the area of today's Republic of Serbia between 1941 and 1945. And to repeat again -- all MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party will vote in the voting day, which I hope will be today, to vote in favour of this bill. The Jews are our brothers, our friends, and I think by adopting this law we will send a clear and unequivocal message to our friends in Israel, who have not confessed so-called. The independence of Kosovo and Metohija, that Serbia is their second country and I hope there will be much more Israeli investment in the Republic of Serbia, new jobs, a better standard of living. That's what the citizens of Serbia are interested in today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49713	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Dr. Janko Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49714	Chairman, I am advocating Article 106, but I may say, freely, Article 27, as regards your obligation to hold a session of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is a record of the length of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, for 24 minutes, the previous speaker spoke beyond the subject. On the agenda is the proposal for a law to remove the consequences of the confiscation of the property of Holocaust victims who do not have legal heirs. At 23 minutes, the speaker referred to the amendment. And it wouldn't be so terrible if the debate, let's say, was about non-alcoholic drinks, but it was about discussing the greatest tragedy in the history of humanity, about removing the consequences of this historic tragedy. And the speaker, not only was he speaking past the Rules of Procedure, but he was relating the victims of the Holocaust... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49715	Of course I turned you off, Mr. Veselinovic. Mr. Veselinović, at that moment... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Give me back my word!) Don't shout, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Give me back my word!) You know, what happens after this? (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Give me back my word!) ) Mr. Veselinović, it's been two minutes. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Because you took my word? Mr. Veselinović, let me speak as chairman. You spoke until the moment and pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure until you roughly tried to use the Rules of Procedure's injuries as a replica. At that moment, as chairman, I had to interrupt you. First of all, Mr. Veselinovic, it is now my duty to explain why I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. First, if you had come in time and attended Mr. Martinovic's presentation from the beginning, you would have seen that Mr. Martinovic was in the topic, that he had started with an amendment that was on the agenda, and I will now read it, so that the citizens of Serbia would assess whether Mr. Martinovic was in the topic. The amendment reads: “The title above the members and members of the 3rd are changed and read – The consequences of the Holocaust within the meaning of this law refer to the time from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945 during which occupiers and associates in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia systematically persecuted and killed members of the Jewish community and destroyed and seized the property of Jews, regardless of their nationality, and all actions against Jewish organisations based on racist provisions, regulations and acts of the occupiers. “ Mr. Martinovic all the time... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Over the agenda. ) Be collegiate, do not throw, do not insult, do not threaten, do not shout. There's no need, Mr. Veselinovic. I know it's a big problem that you're not in a situation and you'll never be in a situation, like SNS, that you have three hours at your disposal, so that Mr. Martinovic can talk for 20 minutes... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Over the agenda. ) Mr. Veselinović, again you are rude, you throw, you enter the word, you do not allow me as chairman to explain why I do not feel that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, which is my duty under the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Martinovic is 20 minutes... I see that, those alcoholic drinks you mentioned earlier, you have some problem and some association, so it's not worth replicating, or that in any way, when you act like that, I can find a common language with you as a national MP. I thank Mr. Veselinovic, I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Zivkovic, why do you think you have to tell me just the basics. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, mentioned. ) He mentioned you, Mr. Zivkovic, first name and last name. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49716	I am mentioned in the context of a prime minister whose term of office a Serb died in The Hague, which is incorrect. That's incorrect, and there's no historical data that could confirm it. On the other hand, far from the fact that the current government was the first government to have an active stance on The Hague tribunal, the government I led refused to deliver General Lukic, for example, who was then at the post of Assistant Minister of the Interior and some other people that The Hague sought. Carla Del Ponte, famous, personally, because it was absolutely against any rules of the Hague tribunal, without speaking of Serbian legislation, she complained of it in her book, I don't know what it's called a book describing her work as the UN prosecutor. And that's a fact. On the other hand, as an MP, I was hurt by the fact that the predecessor called us all out because we didn't react because he's some freak who's currently a culture minister, or I don't know what, wearing a Ustasha hat. Mr. Pupavac gave an adequate answer on the subject and he said – it's not that much trouble in the drops, the problem is under the cap, in what that man thinks. I think it was the right measure on the Serbian side to respond to what is happening now in Croatia, and the political situation in Croatia is certainly not a topic for the Serbian parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49717	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Pavicevic, at one point, you asked for the right to replication. On what grounds do you think you have? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: SNS speakers spoke to me. But they didn't mention your name and name. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I am mentioned. Mr. Zivkovic is also mentioned. That's not true. Mr. Zivkovic is mentioned but you're not. It's not Mr. Pavicevic, you'll have to take another moment to talk. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Honorable Mr. Secretary with his associates. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS cannot accept this amendment because we believe that the concept of the Holocaust defined in the draft law in Article 3 is satisfactory and that it limits and paints the period in which this was happening, therefore, the period of World War II when the Quislin regime of Milan Nedic ruled in Serbia and that is something that is irrefutable for us. What is a problem for us and what we tried a month ago and here to point out to everyone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is that we have in public, I would say, made the impression that rehabilitation has no limits, that followers who are encouraged and descendants, I would say, notorous fascists and Quisling, have now become involved in what is called the initiation of proceedings. We also have a famous beginning of so-called. Rehabilitation of Milan Nedic. counterpart Martinovic is absolutely right when he says there is no court ruling for Milan Nedic. That's right. More than that, we wonder how a court can begin the process of rehabilitating someone who has not even been convicted of any crime. That is why on January 14th, we submitted to the Serbian Parliament a declaration condemning the rehabilitation of members of the occupation forces and quincessic formations that committed or participated in the execution of war crimes. Why did we do that? Because the law that he had, unfortunately, gave the Rehabilitation Act the right to rehabilitate exclusively, respected colleagues and colleagues, innocent persons, therefore, to those persons who were not members of the occupation forces, who occupied parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia during World War II or to speak in this Article of the proposed law. So, the law was not passed to rehabilitate the military-government-police apparatus that was formed by the occupier, whose head was Milan Nedic, that is, the law does not apply to those Serbian citizens who managed the apparatus and who are responsible for the persecution, deportation, closure, killing citizens of the Republic of Serbia through camps, which I am not going to mention now, and through extermination, literally Jews, which we are talking about and why we are discussing this law. I would like to mention another important thing that we all often, we seem to forget, which is that Serbia as a sovereign state has committed to respecting international obligations when it comes to non-eradicating war crimes. So in the rehabilitation of certain persons who, of course, have previously been convicted of war crimes, must be reliably, above all, determined whether those persons committed a crime, that judicial decisions cannot be annulled only for procedural reasons, as it is popular to say from the mouth of senior court officials in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49719	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49720	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to an explicit amendment, I think I gave one explanation and in the debate in principle, and I think this formulation is more acceptable to me, which exists in the bill of law. I want to add one more thing, which I think is important for the quality of this debate which is certainly better from sitting in session and I am convinced that it will continue to be. You know, several times, and here, as a resolution minister, I felt it was necessary and that I was reacting to the fact that my colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, was also asking his own questions about the Rehabilitation Act, even twice, that my colleague Omerovic mentioned this, that my colleague Martinovic also spoke on the subject. We have a problem here, obviously, with one law that wasn't taken care of enough when it was passed. You know, as someone who's both a legal historian and I'm personally interested in such things, now somewhere I'm not going to say, but everyone's talking about General Milan Nedic's rehabilitation procedure, and nobody's talking about the Ferhaj Bega Draga rehabilitation procedure, who was an informed associate of the occupier, but for whom there's also no court ruling. There is a solution to a commission where it is classified as international enemies and this particular case, I suppose, is the main reason for the submission of the rehabilitation proposal was the property interest, because it was an issue of a refugee family that had an inexplicably large assets of agricultural land, forest land, especially in the territory of the Tutin municipality. Something not the territory of the Zubin creek. That's not so much to talk about. So we have a problem with the Rehabilitation Act that's not perfect, that's one thing. The second thing, the law that we went out with here, I didn't say that in principle, you won't take me for harm if I mention it now, but I think it's important. Look at the absurdity. One man, Dr. Joseph Anaf, is a member of a pre-war Belgrade Jewish family, an engineer by profession, who was an occupyer in 1941 literally satro the whole family. He survived. He was able to hide in a village between Požega and Ariel and the first chance he joined the Poželj Chetnik squad. He took part in the struggles with the Partisans of the Užica Republic in unfortunate conflicts, indeed unfortunate, brother-killing conflicts in 1941. Later captured by the occupiers and in 1944 he was shot in Banjaca. Such a man is classified in the list of people's enemies, and by the decision of one committee in my hometown and the place of life of Mr. Jovanovic, whom I mentioned earlier, in Uzic, as a people's enemy because he was literally a participant in the conflict with another anti-fascist movement. That family ran out of heirs. I, preparing for a session and reading a lot about this, came to a personal dilemma -- how tomorrow the Union of Jewish municipalities will apply for compensation among other things and for the Anaf family, whose descendant, who lived the longest, was killed by fascists, fought against them, declared a people's enemy? Let me just conclude with a sentence -- this is such a gala of modern Serbian history, which no law, no court or individual can break. There's one before us, in my opinion, a good bill. I'm glad we have a debate about this amendment, because we're looking at one shade differently, but the essence is the same, and I have a feeling that we're going to reach a consensus. That's something good, because we're going to be the first country not systematically involved in the persecution of Jews, who passed such a law, which does not bring it, because it as a country in World War II conducted genocide and Holocaust against Jews, but from one empathy, one compassion and one community that was witnessed just and in that fact that our country Jews were participants and different resistance movements on Serbia's territory today, which is, you'll admit, true rarity. In a way, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and the Ravnog Movement also raced who would have them more in their ranks because it was a differentiation of specifics. It was that waterhouse between some other movements that were dealing with the extermination of our countrymen of Jewish nationality and religion. I'm sorry for the lengthy address, but I thought this was necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49721	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49722	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to point out that I fully support the position that the amendment proposed does not contribute to the quality and improvement of the quality of the law, because the administration is in relation to Article 3 of the formulation as given, regardless of the concept of holocaust, a clear formulation because it binds both to the territorial and to the time limits of application of this law. In this direction, we fully support, as socialists, the position of the government, and we are very pleased that the government in which we are participating is proposing one such law, which we consider to be of historical importance and which we believe cannot be divided, and especially not from the point of view of ideological, political and all others, but must be completely unique that this law from its historical aspect is undoubtedly of exceptional importance to the state of Serbia, because with a special piety it refers to one nation which is one of the most certainly incurable peoples during World War II, which is a Jewish people. Therefore, the SPS supports this law and therefore the SPS, I will make it loud and clear again, wants to point out something that cannot be historically doubted, which is that neither the Serbian state nor Serbia, nor during World War II participated in the extermination of Jews. And when an order came from Berlin, from one of the chief military commanders of Ayhman, to solve the Jewish question in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it was unfortunately resolved through genocide, through crime, through the monstrous ways of killing Jews, especially women and children, not to speak of the male life of the Jewish who died most because of the death of the Germans, so that a certain number of Jews who would be shot or killed if they were either wounded or killed by a German soldier. However, dear fellow MPs, and especially Serbian citizens, the SPS has a clear view. At the time, Serbia had a government that was a co-operationist government, a government that co-operated with the occupier, a government that contributed greatly to many patriots, many patriots, all those who loved Serbia, who loved freedom, were killed. Among them, besides the Jews who were killed by the Nazis, were Serbs, they were communists, but they were eunuchs. It was also those who represented movements, regardless of whether we could characterize them today as folk-freedom or other movements, but unfortunately they were killed. Milan Nedic led the government. By rehabilitating Milan Nedic, who has personified a co-operationist government, we are rehabilitating a significant historical event, a significant historical stage in the development of Serbia and the development of the Serbian people as a free-loving people, as a people who gave huge sacrifices for their freedom that should be valued just as other victims should be valued. I deliberately pointed out statistics in the principle debate. In Serbia, nearly 80% of Jews were killed through the Holocaust in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, 80% of the total number of Jews who lived in Serbia before that. In Yugoslavia or in the territory of then-Yugoslavia, the percentage is 60%. That's terrible. It's something that hasn't been remembered in history, at least not in that way. In Poland of 3,300,000 Jews, 3,000,000 Jews were killed, again through the Holocaust. We do not have that problem, nor will we have a problem and I am glad that at least in these facts, which no one can raise in doubt, I agree with the distinguished colleague Martinovic and with distinguished colleague Meh Omerovic, because these are facts that are indisputable, regardless of the controversy concerning the personality of Milan Nedic, regardless of what historians will take one, the other, the third or I do not know what attitude on his role in World War II. But what is not disputed and what cannot be disputed is that Milan Nedic, I will repeat, was the Prime Minister who co-operated with the occupier, who co-operated with the German fascist force, with the German fascist axis. There is absolutely no dilemma about it and it is a message to the citizens of Serbia, not to accept the burden that we are in any way taking responsibility for anything. We have no reason to take responsibility for anything but suffering where those sufferings have been done to the burden of the victims of some of the other peoples that have been. The Socialist Party of Serbia will always condemn any crime, anywhere on any territory, both Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, the whole of Europe, and the world. No nation shall be oppressed, no people shall suffer crimes, no people shall suffer extermination. This is not specific to Serbs as free-loving people, because it is the people, I will repeat, who, during the war after the Russians, gave the most victims in Europe. If so, and so, then we have nothing to be ashamed of when we say - we, the respected ministers, are against the Rehabilitation Act, which unfortunately during the adoption of its formulations covered a lot of things - which should not have included - we, the respected ministers, are against that very law rehabilitating a social phenomenon that is not only anachron, but which has left a deep trail of undetectablely difficult consequences, both for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of the state of Serbia, regardless of who they are, whether Serbs, Roma, Jews or some third, fourth. We do not interfere with the work of the High Court in Belgrade, nor do we think of that. A senior court in Belgrade will act by law and, I hope, make an adequate decision. We hope the Socialists will make an adequate decision. We hope that the citizens of Serbia will be satisfied with such a decision, but we do not interfere in the work of the High Court in Belgrade, neither can we, nor should we. Dear Minister, I will remind you that there were 15 Jews who were executed in the Holocaust on the territory of our neighborhood, our town. Of those 15 Jews in the territory of the pleasure area, only one of them wasn't college-educated, everyone else was doctors, teachers, engineers. They were only executed because they were Jews, only because of it. This law expresses a pitet to the perilous Jewish people. The law gives at least a minimum chance for the state of Serbia to determine in the most humane way, to remove, as far as possible, the harmful consequences that have been done to the Jewish people by taking away property from Holocaust victims who do not have living heirs. That is why, in the name of the Government and the works of the Government of Serbia, we support this law, we support you, distinguished ministers, and we support all the free peoples of this world in the fight for freedom and in the fight against discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49723	Thank you, dear colleague Jovanovic. I would ask all the MPs who want to discuss, I have allowed through one broader context all interested ones to explain their position on these amendments, but I would ask you to focus a little more on the amendments in the next discussion. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49724	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I am in favour of the government's proposal, as the concept of Holocaust was defined, because before 6 April 1941, Serbia lived in a country called the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. The Kingdom of Yugoslavia was a democratic, religious and national tolerance, during that time a modern European country. It was unimaginable to pursue persecution on ethnic, racial, national or any other basis. It's easy for us to talk to Mr. Minister Selakovic. For what? Minister Selakovic is a typical representative of the modern Serbian elite, nationalally conscious, European-oriented and elite that has in its political life philosophy tolerance for all people who do not only live in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and who want, if there are disputes, to be resolved peacefully. Mr. Chairman, it is impossible to discuss this amendment and its territorial importance and time importance, it is from 6 April 1941 to 9 May 1945, without mentioning a broader context. This is the coming out of a terrible and worrying forgetfulness that exists in these areas. For what? Many of our compatriots, nationalally unconscious, were ideologically scarred until recently, until the rehabilitated Draža Mihailovic, said that we had a great fascist movement, referring to the Ravnogorski Movement. Now, not only with rehabilitation, but with the exit from oblivion and the presentation of important historical facts and Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, which is absolutely good for our people, acknowledges the anti-fascist role of the Ravnog movement. Who were all the members of that movement? Among other things, members of the Jewish community. What did all the Jews living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia do for the Republic of Serbia? They volunteered in the Balkan wars, in the First World War, in World War II, in both anti-fascist movements and deaths for Serbia, with the same ferocity they fought the occupiers as the dominant people in our country, the Serb people. Accepting the fact that Serbia was like this and, let's say, during World War II in fascist Germany, we had over 5,000 Serb prisoners of war officers and over 300,000 soldiers. What I'm talking about was admitted to us by a German priest who in May 1945 told us about what is being said today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. He dedicated his sermon to Serbian soldiers and Serbian officers, without a shred of pathetics, with the following words - five years in one country we kill the population, a hundred for the German soldier killed, fifty for the wounded. We kill women, children, we burn the country, we develop infrastructure, their peoples and children end up in concentration camps, and at the same time, over 300,000 Serbian soldiers and officers work in German factories, German villages, maintain our agriculture, and the end of the war is near, and we see clearly pictures - who doesn't get revenge, he doesn't commit. We were afraid of what would happen the day the captive wires broke, when your living skeletons went free, whether they would give us back favor for the pleasure, whether they would do to us what we did to them. But how did the Serbs behave? They loved and loved German children as their own, sang songs, gave them candy, didn't take revenge on anyone because they knew that these children, that these civilians didn't blame themselves for having a crazy Nazi named Adolf Hitler at the head of the country. I want to say today that it is a great pleasure that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia there are national conscious and European-oriented ministers. Unfortunately, among many MPs today there is a segmental attitude towards rehabilitation and crimes at the time, regardless of whether it was during the occupation or in the time after the occupation. Because let's not forget, after the occupation here, there have been terrible crimes that Serbia has not yet fully distanced itself from. On the one hand, many MPs have empathy for the sacrifices suffered by other nations, which we fully support, but the absence of consciousness about the severity and proportions of crimes against their people does not exist to a sufficient extent. It didn't even exist in the state of Israel until the trial of Albert Ayhman in 1960, which was caught in Argentina. The Jews who passed the horrors of the concentration camp, who survived, told their countrymen what they had survived and no one believed them. Only when films, videos, documents were released, when a public trial began, and the Jewish community was completely shocked by what she saw. I mean, if it were done with us, if, without any ideological prejudices, all the crimes committed during the occupation and the time after the occupation, when we were in dictatorship, only then would there be full national consciousness and national sobriety that Mr. Minister gives with this law. We, if you're on this road, and I know you are, we fully support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49725	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. I was just handling it when I let in a broader context talk about this amendment, which covers a longer period, and during that period, the terrible crimes of Nazi formations took place. I would ask all MPs for all MPs who are patiently waiting to come to order to say that we should try to stick a little bit more in the framework of the amendment. Is there a word, Mr. Omerovic? (Meho Omerovic, from the place: As authorised. Yes, but I have a lot of reports in order. You must wait your turn, since everyone in the circle has answered again. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: I answered first. ) On what basis, Mr. Veselinović? (Janko Veselinović, from the post: After the amendment. You have five minutes. I've given my word to the gentleman already. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You can't give him the word first. ) Mr. Veselinović, you must patiently like the other MPs to sit in the hall, attend the debate, and come out at any moment and every two minutes go outside, enter, so that I, as chairman, cannot judge when you report to the line, when you think you have the right to say something and when you want to use your five-minute rights. I've already given my word to Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49726	Mr. Becic, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49727	Here, Mr. Martinovic gives up although he has received his word as an MP and has the right to speak, whether I, as chairman, had the right to give him at that time or not in order, but here is Mr. Martinović, generously in your favour, gave up and I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49728	He didn't give up, he didn't have the right to get the word. So, in the order of the reported debaters, I'm in the order. Sir, so don't argue with mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49729	Mr. Veselinović, please don't argue with the chairman. Simply Mr. Martinovic had the right to receive his word, he has the right to a parliamentary group for another two hours and 30 minutes. He answered neatly, patiently waited for his order, got the word of the moment when his microphone was turned on. He had no obligation to give up his discussion. You, Mr. Veselinovic, allow the chairman to sort of assess when who answered and who had the right to speak. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49730	It is a very important law on the agenda, and as I said in the debate in principle, I do not want to turn the debate from the agenda, as my predecessors have done today, saying over 20 minutes past the topic, and when specifically this amendment, which was tabled by Mrs. Comic, is about reviving the victims of the Holocaust. Revitalised in a way that they spoke...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49731	Mr Vesenović, to speak, helped you get back on the subject, the amendment – the name above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted jointly by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49732	Please give me back my time. I'll sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49733	Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49734	I'll sign up again. Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49735	Here's a silis generique. Thank you. The word has a People's MP... (Janko Veseinović, from the place: Give me back my time.) You gave up the debate, Mr. Veselinović. (Janko Vesenović, from the post: I did not give up. You've shut down. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Sin. You made a mistake, so unfortunately, if by mistake you spoke for two minutes. You've got three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49736	So this topic prevails over all of the party's pre-election rally words that you used here today. Obviously, the disagreement between representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Rasim Ljajic party on the topic, anti-fascism and fascism. But it's up to you to power, not to this law. That's why everyone says what interests his constituents.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49737	Sir, my dear colleague, didn't you say you were going to talk about the subject? All MPs have stuck to the subject and period that is subject to the amendment, and you are politically speaking hold here and insult the MPs and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49738	So it is vital that victims who did not have their legal heirs receive satisfaction, and thus the Jewish people. The state of Serbia will thus give about 23.4m euros for this purpose over the next 25 years. It's a moral satisfaction for the victims. It's that we understand no money from one victim, one human sacrifice. However, it is huge money when it comes to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I hope that's not a question to anyone. When we talk about this amendment and when we talk about the whole law, it's important that this money is spent on purpose. It is important to say that this money is being educated by young generations, that in these areas not Holocaust happens, but that nothing similar happens, that neither what happened to Serbs from Republika Srpska or Serbs from Croatia who today are the only people, if we can speak for one part of the people that they are a people, but they were an entity in a new country, left without their houses, left without their property and left without rights and unfortunately forgotten from both Croatia and all this is true what some predecessors said, but were often forgotten by the Republic of Serbia. In this sense, it is necessary to talk in parallel through the Holocaust education and that something similar does not happen in the Balkans and that peace and understanding exists in this area in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49739	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Time's up, two minutes plus three, five minutes. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, followed by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and then MP Marijan Risticevic and then the order further. Here you go, Dr. Alexander Martins.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49740	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Well, it's just amazing to me that people who claim to be representatives of the idea of tolerance, freedom, antifascism show such a degree of acuity when we talk about one of these. I personally think, as my colleagues from the SNS think, that there is absolutely no need for such a thing. Mr. Janko Vesenovic now said that I don't really have the right to speak, but the only thing left to say is that I need to be shot for my words. I don't think it contributes in any way to the quality of this debate and as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to refer any harsh words to anyone. But I am obliged for history to remind individual MPs of what co-operation with The Hague tribunal looked like at a time when they were presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Zivkovic said that he did something similar to what Alexander Vukic did only I don't remember. Aleksandar Vucic is the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to send a protest letter to The Hague tribunal because of the fact that another Serb died in Seveningen, although the government of the Republic of Serbia granted guarantees on October 8th 2015 that it would ensure conditions for Republika Srpska Army General Zdravko Tolimir to be treated in Serbia. Mr. Zivkovic said he did something similar to Alexander Vukitch. I remember what happened at the time of Zoran Zivkovic. On September 20, 2002, he was free for treatment, otherwise the man was very sick. So, on September 20th 2002, the late Zoran Djindjic was Prime Minister, from Cheveningen he was released to defend himself, better said to be treated by Republika Srpska Army General Momir Talic, right? Momir Talic died on 28 May 2003. He died mostly because he was not given adequate healthcare in The Hague tribunal, as well as many other Serbs. As was the case with Slobodan Milosevic, Zdravko Tolimira, and some others. I didn't hear, and you correct me if I'm wrong, that Mr. Zoran Zivkovic sent a protest letter to The Hague tribunal for this fact. You may have made a point, but I haven't heard of it. Therefore, it remains recorded in history that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, whose government is based on Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, has been the only Serbian prime minister since 1993 when the UN Security Council's decision to refer to The Hague tribunal for inhumane treatment of Serbs was formed. No one's done it before, and that's a fact. I disagree with former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic's finding that Serbia has nothing to interfere with, what statements the Croatian culture minister makes. And as Serbia has something to say, because according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and other citizens living in it, and in Article 13, it is nice to say that the Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting relations between Serbs living abroad, so I guess in Croatia with the country of origin. So, Serbian parliamentarians and how it should concern the fact that a current minister in Croatia is openly propagating Ustasha ideology, and here it is, if it were not for the SNS MP no one would speak a single word of it. On the contrary, we hear the right for us to talk about it, and Milorad Pupovac said something about the Ustasha cap, and it's good and good that he said it, but the state of Serbia, and we are also representing it in parliament, has to say that the promotion of Ustasha ideology can be very, very dangerous. As you have noted, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia has been very patient for two years, very discreetly speaking about Croatia with many tactics. The man has endured numerous insults, open threats, insinuations on account of the politics of the Republic of Serbia and Aleksandar Vukic is constantly speaking – I will not use heavy words, not because Serbia is weak, but because I want to preserve stability in the region, that is, in the former Yugoslavia's area. It's a brave and wise policy. At the same time, I think it is a brave and wise policy for us Serbian MPs, i.e. the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to say that we are with our people living in Croatia in these days when it is objectively difficult for them. It is difficult for me as someone from Croatia to see that the Minister in Croatia Government is someone who takes pictures with, i.e. Takes pictures with a Ustasha cap. I am not comfortable when I hear that the Croatian Parliament has made a decision to be the sponsor of the marking of the surrender of the Ustasha and the U.S.A.'s homeland at Bleiborg. I'm not comfortable. No one claims that JNA didn't kill innocent people, civilians, women and children. Yes, but don't tell me that at the Slovenian-Austrian border, only innocent people were killed and that those black shirts that retreated from NDH were innocent victims of communist terror. That is not true, and the Croatian Parliament has made no simple decision, which hurts Serbs in Croatia and hurts me too. It hurts me to think that most of the MPs, to be sponsors of the Bleiburg event, and we all know how many times it's happened in Blyburg that it's called Anti Pavelic, NDH, that the ugliest words are directed to Serbia, to call for the slaughter of Serbs, to play Thompson's songs, etc., that I'm not getting into it right now. Once again, and I guess I won't be answering the team again, and I have nothing to defend myself from, and neither I nor my colleagues from the SNS, are constantly changing the thesis here. No one said the SNS parliamentary group is for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic. I said on behalf of my colleagues that it was a matter of court. The court will assess whether there are conditions for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic or not, but what I also don't like as a lawyer is that in the National Assembly you devalue and disabling the court that made some decision. We may like it or not like it, but if we're in favour of the rule of law, if we're in favour of the rule of law, I guess it's the elemental postulate that we respect the court's decision. The court rehabilitated Draj Mihajlovic. From the point of view of the Serbian judiciary, he's an innocent man, there's no need to reheat here the passion of whether he's a war criminal, he's not, etc. There's a court ruling saying that a man is rehabilitated. Whether that fate will happen to Milan Nedic, I don't know that, the court will say that, but whatever decision the court is to be, be positive, be negative, I think it should start with that decision being respected. I think that's what the Constitution obliges us to do, to be bound by laws. I didn't say anything besides that. As far as I'm concerned, I don't think I'm going back on the subject because there's no need to, but I am obliged to say again for some historical facts, when some colleagues say Milan Nedic was working with the Germans. Yes, he cooperated, but now I remind you, negotiations between Joseph Broz and the German command in Zagreb began in November 1942. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: All sorts of things. All right, Mr. Omerovic, I'll give you a folk hero here. There's no bigger anti-fascist than you, but let me say something. So in November 1942, well, you're spreading your arms now, let's tell me what's not true? In November 1942, Partizans captured German engineering officer Hans Otto. Hans Ott established a link between Joseph Broz and the German command in Zagreb. Negotiations were held in Gornji Varkuf, Sarajevo, in Zagreb to suspend the fighting facts against Partizan in the course of so-called Fourth enemy offensives. You have this, so-called. Smart phone, Mr. Omerovic, as we all have, or at least most of the MPs, you have Wikipedia information, I have nothing to tell you now, you can check it out. Well...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49741	Please, Mr. Martinovic, just so you don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49742	Here I go. The Germans suspended on 11 March 1943, thanks to the talks of Koca Popovic, Milovan Djilas and Vladimir Velebit, under the orders of Josip Broz and with his permission, the combat facts against Partizan. Take Wikipedia data when German occupation forces stop fighting against Partizan in Neretva, 11 March 1943. If we're talking about someone working with the Germans, why is it a shame to say that Joseph Broz collaborated with the Germans next to Nedic? Here, Marijan Risticevic has a photograph of Josip Broz from World War I when he poses as an Austrian soldier at a time when Austro-Hungarian committed mass crimes against Serbia in Machva. So what now? That can't be mentioned, and this can be mentioned. There's a great line, and I'm going to end up with a British political philosopher, Robert George Collingwood. One fact isolated from the mass of other facts represents a monster. So, the Serbian history in World War II is a mosaic of historical facts and let's not just rip out of that mosaic, we only extract what suits us, and what doesn't suit us, when someone mentions it – well, you're a fascist, you're for the rehabilitation of Milan Nedic. I'm a fascist whose family died badly on Kordun since the Ustasha in 1942, or one of my colleagues? So don't say anything that doesn't stand. But if you want to be a judge in historical matters, then let's bring all the facts to the table, not just those that suit you, and those that don't answer, to push under the carpet. He invented Martinovic's negotiations in Gornji Vakufu, Sarajevo and Zagreb. He invented Martinović Hans Ott. He invented Martinovic to suspend the operation against the Partisans on 11 March, because Josip Broz pledged to open fire in the English in the event of an Allied landing in Dalmatia. Well, they sang: “When Churchill’s English come, they will be cut off by our machine guns. ” It was a 1943 Partisan song.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49743	Please, Mr. Martinovic, I have already tried to ask you once, without speaking directly to the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49744	Here, I won't go back to history. I said what I had to say on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group. We'll vote for this bill. The Jews are our friends, our countrymen. Thank Israel for not acknowledging Kosovo and Metohija's independence and calling on them to invest as much as possible in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49745	I thank you, Mr. Martinovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49746	Thank you. The theme is to drag towards a broader view of the situation. I think it's a good debate, although almost no one has spoken, including the minister, precisely about the amendment, because the topic that we've come to is obviously more important. I'm telling you the truth. I'll try not to go too far off this topic. I'm mentioned as someone who said he did something like Alexander Wolf. I've never said that, nor will I say that, nor anything like that. Let's be clear. Prosecution notes are not normally written in courts, but written in other states. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I said the protest letter, the letter. )......................................................................................................... Or a letter, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49747	It can't be anything, Mr. Zivkovic. That's a huge difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49748	Believe me, it doesn't matter in diplomatic communication, but it's not my place to educate now. As for Serbia's reaction to that unfortunate Croatian culture minister, I didn't hear the Serbian president say anything about it, I didn't tell the Serbian Prime Minister that he said anything about it, I didn't hear the foreign minister say anything about it, that I wasn't talking about our ambassador. So if someone has to comment on what Milorad Pupovac said, I support it. I don't need to prove my patriotism or my tolerance. It's just that whoever has a guilty conscience from the past might have to do it, I don't have it. Therefore, the death of Jews in World War II is huge, five, six million are estimated figures, between 50 and 58 thousand are data in Yugoslavia, and it is certain that Serbia should have responded adequately to what happened. That's the kind of reaction I've had before, but I think this law is good. The amendment proposed in the amendment to Article 3 would contribute to improving the law, but that is not the essence. The point is, we need to be aware of what happened. I also have friends of the Jews. I had the opportunity to be a guest of the Israeli government in 1998 to declare 50 years of the Israeli state. Netanyahu was the prime minister, as he is now. I've had the honour of laying a crown on Jad Yours, it's the greatest memorial of Jewish suffering, to be on the Masada twice, which is the Kosovo Field for Jews, to visit Ber Cheva, who is the city of Nisa, and otherwise to be mentioned in the Old Testament, to be at Christ's grave, but the suffering done to the Jews is always looking for new proof and I think this law is good, that the twenty-five, six million that will be given to the state or something less, in some subsequent period should be used for the right things, and that means that rebuilding, raising better memories, better monuments than we have today, and the Jews who lived in Serbia deserve it. I repeat again, for one artistic, but also an honest introduction to what happened at the Old Fair, see the play "Invisible Monuments" at the Bitef Theatre, which is there on the regular repertoire. Did Serbs participate in this Holocaust in Serbia? I am inclined to say no, that this German occupation force had absolute domination over everything that happened in Serbia from April 1941 to October or until the end of 1945. I've got living witnesses here. My father was a wartime military invalid, so I have that experience. But that doesn't justify Nedic for what he did. Nedic was a quizling, period. I don't think anything better about Draža Mihailovich. Dragisa Cvetkovic got the first one, it's a historical fact, an offer to be a quasling German state, an occupation state, and he refused and nothing happened to him. He's been under house arrest for four years. That means Nedic could have said no. Did he help the Serbs? No, of course not. What kind of help is that? It's just a shame that today stands on the cheek of the Serbian people. Of course the court will judge. As the lawyers told me, there is no place for trial, because it is not meant for it, so it cannot be rehabilitated, but it is a disgrace to the Serb people, Nedic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49749	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49750	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a message I understood from most colleagues, however, were exceptions, it should not be surprising with Serbs, the majority message I received was that we should not look worse than ourselves, but rather better, as a people, as individuals. I'm very happy with that. There's a little too much ideology. That ideology, the ideological differences were often our heads. We need to look back, look at the past, learn, it would be best if we learned from other people's mistakes, but try to learn from our mistakes and not make new divisions and divisions. Whether or not it was a quizling, it will be decided by the court, not by the farmers. It's that we know a lot, but we shouldn't rise above the court, nor should we comment on that decision if we're good-thinking people, no matter what we're unsanitary, we shouldn't be misthinkers. We were bombed in 1999. There was a variety of collaborations, and patriotism and smuggling, and locators and seductors, etc., so I'd be a little careful with all sorts of expressions, but I'll try to talk a little bit about property, holocausts, etc. Mr. Minister, there's a decision there, the one from 1944, to put all that seized property under state administration during the war. It was done by some new authorities, some new friends and friends. Not that they didn't mind that these previous assets were taken, but they grabbed it themselves, so it was a little small for them, so they started industry, industrialists, etc. to confiscate and all that to spill in favor of the state. Now we have a reverse process. Everything that was stately, in a very strange way, has become private, etc. I don't know what's worse than those two evils. We Serbs always go from an extreme to a mockery, or we kidnap someone who's been rich for decades, etc. or later on, we give state relief to someone who gets rich overnight, who doesn't need a few dozen years, who needs a couple of party leaders' signatures to do private work from overnight. I'll talk a little bit about agriculture. I will talk first of all about the ban on returning to Slavonia Serbs, which was also in Kosovo and Metohija, the famous order of Pope Zecevic. What about that kind of confiscation of property? Is she back? Where Serbs who escaped during World War I are forbidden to come as refugees to their homes, their properties. That property has been confiscated. Let's keep talking. What about the property of Serbs in Croatia? What about Milica Badzhi's apartment, where a fellow MP moved in, according to Mr. Atlagic, which is part of the property that the Croatian state took from exiled refugees in the late 20th century? The number of Serbia has fallen by two-thirds. We can rightly call the former Yugoslavia a monument of the Serb people, because in the last ten years of the 20th century, a million Serbs were moved from the hearth and so moved, expelled, exiled or as it was defined, avoided, we were one step away from being declared a genocide nation. The people who were so cruelly ethnically cleansed were on the verge of that and had there been no political change in this country, that the people had not come to their senses and called for changes in 2012, I believe...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49751	Mr. Risticevic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49752	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49753	You, unlike your colleagues, have gone a little wider.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49754	I agree, I accept. As far as the property is concerned, let's give it back to everyone who was wrongly taken away, except the one who was taken away by crime. What about the property of Serbs that passed into state-owned confiscation in 1944? It wasn't Nedic, I don't know who, Draža etc., but some other people did it, some other ideology. My point is not to fight anyone with anyone. I won't let the splits use us against each other. I know that the West has introduced tribal democracy in the '90s and used old jokes to break up a country that was possible and needed for everyone, but I don't want to talk about it. I'm gonna talk about the property of the farmer...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49755	Mr. Risticevic, that's not on the agenda, and I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49756	Yes, it is. There were Jews among them. It's been 10,082 through prisons. As many Jews as there were, I don't know, but in order to not only exempt Jewish property, let's return all the farmers, who were subject to confiscation for mandatory ransom, return the property. We can't return the money, the machinery, etc., but let's return the land, the facilities, the salsa, the buildings, etc. If I didn't owe it, I think the farmers, whether they were Jews or not, went very badly. 10,082 men, in the territory of Vojvodina 8,821, put in jail, to go through prisons, and only because they didn't have enough supplies to deliver a mandatory ransom. Do you know how many confiscations there have been in Slovenia for that? Two. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the citizens of the Serbian people, representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, let's return the property of the dead Jews, let's bring back the property of Serbs and those who are killed and those who have heirs and those who do not have, let's raise up the monument to the martyrs, to raise monuments to those who remain in Croatia without monuments, Jadovno, Gradiška, Jasenovac, etc., that and that which is the result of another crime, where there is no legal heir and follower, to use that property to evolve, not only the memories of Jews at the Pogrom, but let's have that part of the property that we will return specifically to these traditions, so that this evil does not happen again. As victims, the representatives of the victims, we must equally value all the victims. There are no more or less valuable victims. For me, the victim is a victim, and the crime is a crime, and that's how I act. As far as restitution is concerned, I also support the return of property, I support it, but among us there are those who have entered into such unjustly seized property, planted vineyards. There on the plots in Frusko Gora was taken by violence to the Jaksic family. Not that the previous authorities had not returned it, but had entered the plot privatised themselves and had taken 525,000 euros from the state to plant a vineyard there for themselves. On the kidnapped, cursed property they planted vineyards to pull huge incentives and subsidies. Why don't you say it. When it's a hat problem, you can buy a hat like that, but it's hard under the hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49757	Thank you. Mr. Omerovic, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Before that, I have to say one sentence, if I may. Dear MPs, I would like to ask, we now have Mr. Omerovic and Mr. Jovanovic, and I will be so tolerated as to close this round with this whole topic on this article that it is such that it allows to go wide. I think this is too much. After that, I can no longer allow it to be spoken directly about the amendment. If there is any further attempt, I have two alternatives, either to use the Rules of Procedure and Penal Code or to give one longer break, so that you all realize that this debate cannot be conducted in this way. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49758	Your Honors, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a member of 107 has just been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly, and I suggest that you assess whether I am right, Mr. Becic. Here, I'll make the argument. Until a moment ago, we had a very good discussion in our National Assembly about various systems of ideas, beliefs, values, and opinions. National MPs from all parliamentary parties participated in the debate in an appropriate manner. It was found here that both fascism and Nazism are political ideologies, that these are also some systems of ideas, beliefs, values and opinions, and what was the special value of this debate until a moment ago, Mr. Becic, precisely that we have provided one agreement here. So we all got up and said we were anti-fascist-oriented, that we would cultivate everything that is our anti-fascist traditions, gentlemen. Here we have provided one consensus on the fact that we will not give all of what the advocates of the elements of Nazi ideology are saying the right to be recognized in the public sphere. I think it's a big deal, gentlemen. Here we have provided agreement to support Mr. Pupovac for his actions in the Croatian Parliament for the words he has spoken and then we have had, Mr. Becic, the situation to define the character of the debate on the most important issue on the agenda, in words such as the "schlekator", which is not in the Serbian language dictionary. I considered it appropriate to respond in this way to the actions and speeches of a local MP who had just come forward. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49759	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Žika Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49760	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27th and 107th. Mr. Chairman, I usually very rarely report to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but, for the sake of the truth and dignity of this Assembly, I believe that you should have stopped Mr. Zivkovic's exposure when he was false, even I would have told lies, in one such home, in words that the same quesling of fascists Nedic and Draža Mihajlović. I will remind only that Draža Mihajlovic has been rehabilitated by our state, and that what may be even more important, that UN papers, where all members of the Nazi and Quislin movement are listed, there is no Yugoslav army in the country and there is no Draža Mihajlovic. It is, unfortunately, the invention of some people who are still fighting today, not for partisans, but for "partisan" and the way property was then taken away, and what we could see in Mr. Zivkovic as being treated with state property when he was in high office in the Republic of Serbia. I would once again take the opportunity to invite all MPs back to the topic, to really talk about what this Parliament needs to sit down today and leave the differences between us. Because, as King Peter once said – God help the Serbs to agree, not to leave it as something that, unfortunately, was an illusion, but something that we should all be inclined to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49761	Mr Gojkovic, the chairman of the Rules of Procedure, can do a lot of things, since the Rules of Procedure have adopted a former regime that wanted to have such opportunities and such rights. But to get into someone's feelings for someone, believe me, I can't do it, and I don't have the right to do it in the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) Thank you. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49762	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, finally. I would ask you not to answer twice, because it took a lot of this exchange and controversy between my distinguished colleagues, and it may have forgotten that my first replica was – Mr Pavicevic, I would ask you not to approach the chair as he heads the session – at the presentation of Janko Veseinović, and then he mentioned me several times, by name and last name, and, of course, I will use the time of the authorised representative to talk about the member...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49763	You can't do that, Mr. Omerovic, you have to use the replica, and then after Mr. Jovanovic you can contact again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49764	So, Mr. Janko Veselinovic, I don't know what caused the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and its president, Rasim Ljajic, put in some context that allegedly has nothing to do with anti-fascism. Simply, the independent MP Veselinovic was malicious. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia and its leader Rasim Ljajic and all of us are proud to inherit anti-fascist fluids and traditions of the only free movement, the Partizan movement, headed by Josip Broz Tito. Therefore, it is his right to try to present in a forged way. That's one thing. Mr. Martinovic, on several occasions, tried to place his historic thesis on the equalisation of Nedic and Josip Broz Tito in the same plane in the 25 minutes. It is simply incompatible and I am sorry that Mr. Martinovic, despite the effort and title he received from counterpart Marijan Risticevic, has the right to do so, but not in this way. This would ask us not to be offended and to discuss historical facts and to return to Article 3. - The concept of Holocaust, which is what I want to talk about in the remaining 12 and a half minutes as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49765	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. While you have already called on us not to be offended, I wish you hadn't, in fact, spoken of a few MPs by name and last name, given them the right to replication and, in some ways, insulted them. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49766	Very short. I think that Mr Meho Omerovic, whose attitude I appreciate about this matter and who was quite loud and represented it at this debate, has been a little quiet, probably as the pucks arrived, but precisely my company was in the sense that different positions within the ruling coalition on anti-fascism, co-operation, on the issue of Nedicevics, Ljoticevics, Chetniks, etc. I think we Mr Meho Omerovic, a fellow respected, agree on that, but you just didn't understand me very well. If there was some misunderstanding in that sense, I'm giving an explanation and only in that context did I mention your party which, unfortunately, is in coalition with all those who have quite the opposite concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49767	You have to understand that it's hard for you to understand. I'm not surprised at Mr. Omerovic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49768	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, we're going to put an end to a debate relating to the excessive amendment, about what is very important, really very important, when it comes to the Jewish people and the law relating to the Jewish community. And you didn't, the Honorable Chairman, make any mistakes when you expanded and allowed the extension of the context of the conversation or the dilemma or discussion, whatever you call it, when we're talking about Article 3 right now. Because the Jewish community deserves a very clear message from this House. The Jewish people deserve a very clear message from this parliament, a message sent to them by the government of the Republic of Serbia, a message from the state of Serbia. And this message is contained in a law that I support unreservedly, that the wicked Jewish people have the rights that this law gives, and there is no dilemma about it. There can't even be a dilemma that the Jewish people were killed by a fascist occupier. It can't be a dilemma that fascist Germany was conducting a holocaust. Honorable MPs and my fellow lawyers also cannot be a dilemma that a co-operationist regime, decorated in the Serbian government, was in co-operation with Germany at the time, headed by Nedic. If the German fascist state was destroying Jews, how can the Jewish community have sympathy for such a government? I don't speak for the Jewish community, nor do I have the right to do so, but I must draw attention to the one who has collaborated with the German occupier can in no case be favored by the Jewish community in a way that falls away from that acutely vicious criminal who conducted fascist Germany towards the Jews. Where did the Jews, the Jewish community, the Jewish people seek salvation? They sought salvation in the People's Liberation Movement, sought salvation in the Partizan movement, sought salvation in the People's Liberation Fight. They sought salvation where the SPS also inherited their programme and their goals and their political action. I'll just remind you of one fact that no one here can doubt. Mosha Piyade, the Honorable Minister, you know that very well is one of the most important military figures, when it comes to the People's Liberation Movement, a politician. He was Jewish, and he was headed by one of the leaders of the People's Liberation Movement. When I presented information that Nedic was destroying the most communists, that is true, the most communists were killed by Nedicevic and Ljotics, because they were the target group for destruction by such a regime and such a government. When I said they'd been killed, I just made a fact, but that doesn't mean that ideological views have come close to us...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49769	Mr. Jovanovic, I'd like to ask you to complete your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49770	I'm sorry, you've allowed others. I'm done. I want to say that what he spends all day through this discussion must stop precisely because of the Jewish community, the Jewish people in Serbia's territory through a very clear message. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed an excellent law. Minister, as a proposal, you've made a great solution. That solution is supported, but in the context of historical facts, that solution of yours must be seen in this way. We must condemn and we must be against the rehabilitation of all those who cooperated with Germany who destroyed the Jews. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49771	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I have an obligation to all MPs who are patiently waiting to explain their amendments, to introduce this debate into the topic, or I will now give a break by 17.00 hours, because it takes so much, I see, that some MPs understand that they cannot hold as hostages all the other MPs, where they are taking time off the topic, or I will try to refer to the criminal provisions of the Rules of Procedure to MPs on the subject. I won't allow any more replicas, whether anyone's right or wrong. Does anyone want to talk on the subject? The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49772	Mr. Chairman, I fully support this position of yours to get back on the subject and discuss the proposed law, which represents one of the essential, valuable steps in respecting victims and drinking to those who were killed in the period under Article 3 of the Law Proposer and Ministry in the concept of Holocaust. I'll use my remaining time as an authorised representative and I won't answer again until the debate is over. Since it is here, I quote Article 3 of which we are discussing, for the purposes of this law, Holocaust represents the time from April 6th 1941 to May 9, 1945, in which occupiers and his associates in the territory of today's Republic of Serbia systematically persecuted and killed members of the Jewish community, destroyed, seized the property of Jews, regardless of their nationality and Jewish organizations, based on racist provisions, regulations and acts of the Nazi regime. The Nazi regime and the role of Nedic's Quislin regime in so-called The final Jewish issue is historically known, but since this Article 3 speaks precisely of this period, I would remind that the first Field Commander, who was also commander of the City of Belgrade, Colonel Kaisenberg, issued the order in April 1941 that separates Jews from other citizens by introducing so into Serbia racial laws. About police in Belgrade and Serbia, I quote, "The police are here, given the person of the head of public security, and this is about the manager of Belgrade City and police chief Dragomir Drago Jovanovic, in the best hands. In the first days of my work, I ordered her reorganization. Its strength is 858 people. “ Colonel Kaisenberg adds that in many cases police are the most reliable means of maintaining order, and her boss Drago Jovanovic calls her special commissioner. On September 18th 1941, Von Kaisenberg submitted a report concluding that the co-operation of all German authorities and institutions with Belgrade City Police, whose number has now risen to 1500 people, is impeccable. The military gendarmes were responsible for traffic, criminal and political issues, as well as for issues of Jewish property. She co-operated daily with the Belgrade City administration, led by Dragi Jovanovic. The involvement of the police and armed forces of Nedic's government, so-called People's salvation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49773	Mr. Omerovic, we're dealing with individuals again, not the subject. I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49774	Please, I didn't hear you. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49775	We're dealing with individuals again, not the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49776	We deal with individuals who participated in the persecution and destruction of Jews and their property.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49777	I know, but you can't do it that way, we have to stick to Article 3.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49778	Here, I'll be back on the subject. So police and Nedic's forces' involvement in the raids and arrests of Jews played an important role. To this end, a special 7th special police department was educated, which was solely in charge of Jews and Roma. Several hundred agents worked on registration of Belgrade Jews and Roma, and then assisted the German authorities in their liquidation. The lists of hostages for the shooting of German occupation authorities were drawn up in co-operation with Draga Jovanovic all together, the Gestapo, the Vermacht, special police, including other domestic participants and associates and implemented one of the most radical, under quotes, the final solutions to the Jewish issue in Europe. The Gestapo and the Special Quislin Police have extended their activity against the few other hidden Jews...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49779	Mr. Omerovic, you can get as mad as you want at me, I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49780	Against the hidden Jews... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49781	I'm not gonna let you talk anymore. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: Please, this is the topic. No, Mr. Omerovic, it's just that all MPs are in the Omerovic room. You can't open up replicas like this. We're done with this member. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want to follow this amendment? (Meho Omerovic, from the place: What does this look like? ) Be correct, be parliamentary and respect your colleagues. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: You interrupt me. I have to interrupt when you're not talking about the subject. I must interrupt you, sir. I can only punish you now. All MPs in the O.R. are in trouble. (Meho Omerovic, from the place: Which everyone? Marian Risticevic? ( ) Respect your colleagues. He didn't mention Mr. Risticevic. Respect your colleagues, Mr. Omerovic, you've been in parliament a long time. I don't think what you're doing is correct. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49782	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was pleased to listen to the moments of this debate that has given many of the facts that some of us have known for 30 years, so I am pleased that it has been. But it's been a long time since we haven't talked, and in some ways we've been disabling an extremely important law regarding correcting an injustice that has happened, unfortunately, with us. The amendment to Article 7 following the words ‘application of the application for issuance’ shall be added to the words ‘or ‘receivement of the Agency’. In addition to the rights of the applicant, the proposed amendment aims to request, obtain documentation, documents and data, establish and competent the Agency to collect the necessary documentation, i.e. that the Agency submits a request for the supply of the necessary documentation, which is in line with the idea that public authorities and other public authorities themselves obtain documents in the possession of the State. This facilitates the exercise of rights. I think the debate this way and this should facilitate the resolution of this problem and the implementation of the law that we are discussing today. I expect that in a further debate and a distinguished Mr. Minister and his associates will have an understanding of this amendment, which we want to facilitate and improve the solution this law makes, which, I say once again, is the correcting of a historical injustice which, unfortunately, took place with us. And there's some detailed elaborate in terms of previous speakers that can benefit, but in some other maybe conditions, and this is how we're the precious time in which we were to help people, or help a religious community that unfortunately remains as the sole legal follower because living heirs don't have, that they can get their rights and protection and preserve the memory of these people as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49783	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is by MP Vuceta Toskovic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49784	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under Amendment 7, I will only say that it is not to be accepted, for the simple reason that something is meant to be said. Well, I would now quote this member of the law – all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, the authorities of the local unit, the self-government and other bodies and organisations, as well as in the archives are obliged to, within their jurisdiction and without delay, and no later than 30 days by applying for the issue, issue for the purpose of carrying out the return procedure in accordance with the provisions of this law. So this is where you say - from the day you apply. That request is being verified at that point, and you're just giving it away from reception. So the reception is the same, and when it's brought to any court, you get an overa and so I'm saying you shouldn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49785	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49786	I don't think you fully understood the amendment because here we treat the institution of applicants of this request, that it can be agencies. I don't dispute what you said, but we haven't talked about it at all in the amendment, we're also giving the agency the opportunity to submit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49787	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49788	I'll be very brief. Just what the esteemed predecessor said. This amendment extends in a certain way a circle of persons who can take on the burden of proof and are included in them and agencies, which is, in general, the purpose of the existence and competence of the agency itself, because you cannot decide who decides in this situation to transfer the jurisdiction, or the burden of proof. The concept simply differs, and if we even accepted the amendment, it would not be in line with the rest of the text of the bill. On the other hand, I still hold that one broad public debate and the draft law process which is now as a proposed proposal to you and particularly the participation of stakeholders in the drafting of this text of the law - is something that guarantees us that this is the most qualitative and acceptable text of the bill for them. Is it legally possible to consider this? Yes, but then it changes the concept of the whole law, and that was one reason why I didn't accept the amendment, but I understand this as well as your contribution to the better quality of the text of the law, and in that sense I welcome the willingness to improve it, but I think it's for the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49789	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Thank you. The 9th Amendment was filed by the National MP Dr Ivan Bauer. The word is Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49790	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, in this amendment we responded to Article 9 and suggested that it be added after Article 2(3), which reads - the funds set out in Article 2 of this article shall be paid by 1 February of each calendar year for the current calendar year at the latest. So it's about the funds that are allocated each year to the Union of Jewish municipalities. We felt that, given that Article 24(1) said that the Union, referring to the Union of Jewish municipalities, is obliged by 15 January of each calendar year to form a united annual programme of income management for the current calendar year and to then deliver it to the Committee, where it is referring to the Committee for Control which oversees the management of revenues. We felt it was appropriate to set the deadline until when these funds would be paid, given that unless a deadline was set, believing, of course, in the best possible intention of the minister, it might happen that in a future, in five or 10 years, someone that did not have such a formulation, or precision, that abuse, and that the funds would not be transferred to some reasonable time, or that they would be transferred at the end of the calendar year for that year. So that was the reason. I understand the argument that you have offered, I hope you will respect our argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49791	The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, magistrate of Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Dr. Ivan Bauer. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49792	I thank the Minister for respecting our arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49793	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On the 21st amendment, with correction, was filed by the MP, Dr. Ivan Bauer. The word is Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49794	We've had two interventions here -- one more technical character, and the other, I think, is a little more important. When I spoke in the principle debate about a problem that could arise, it would be very difficult to prove that certain members of the Jewish community were indeed members of that community, since there were no books because they were burned during World War II, since some of them were not registered as members of the Jewish community, although they suffered all the conconsequences and the fact that they were actually Jews. So what I intervened in paragraph 4 is that the time limit prescribed when someone later appears as heir to the property, the time limit prescribed by the Jewish community, or the Union of Jewish municipalities, to return that property, is one month from the day of the application. It may occur that the request is incomplete or that the data provided by someone seeking return of property is not fully valid and it seems to me that, since in this case it is very likely that persons living abroad will be working on the deadline prescribed, for a month, to resolve that requirement simply is not long enough. That's why we suggested that instead of a month, the Union of Jewish municipalities be given a 90-day period to resolve these requirements. I think that's reasonable. These demands won't be so much, and I don't think an extension from 30 to 90 days would have changed anything dramatically, and I think it would have given the possibility to solve these cases through this law without the need for any court proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49795	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There you go. There's a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49796	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49797	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. There you go. There's a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49798	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49799	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Ivan Bauer. The word is Dr. Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49800	We have submitted amendments to this article for the same reason as the Committee on Justice, however, something different, because this article was intended to be subject to a six-month report which cannot be carried out by an auditor, given that it is carrying out an annual audit of the business of the Union of Jewish municipalities, related to these funds made available to them. So, we have proposed a different solution, but I think that this solution proposed by the Committee is also fully acceptable, so that we can withdraw this amendment in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49801	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Veličković. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49802	Thank you. In principle, I suggested that it would be good to keep a solution to the applicable Law on Violations, which provides for a hearing to decide on the adoption of an agreement on the recognition of the offence. I find it insufficient and untrustworthy and rather difficult for the court to determine whether the defendant has willingly confessed to the offence and whether he is aware of all the consequences of the conclusion of the agreement only on the basis of the agreement delivered. I think it is important, given the consequences that arise from the adoption of the agreement and by a verdict declaring the defendant guilty and giving him criminal sanctions that the court in one reliable way determines whether the defendant expressed his free will in accepting the agreement and whether he is aware of the consequences of the agreement he has concluded. I can understand the need for efficiency of the procedure itself, but it seems to me that we are putting the wrongful court in a situation that, on the basis of only one document called agreements and without a previous hearing of the accused, determines something that is still possible, it seems to me, in a reliable manner, only in a conversation with the defendant himself. I am sorry that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not accepted our amendment that provides for the maintenance of the hearing and the determination of free will and awareness of the consequences of the concluded agreement in one serious and reliable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49803	Thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by the people (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: I answered the word. On what basis? (Janko Vesenović, from the post: I have the right to five minutes. You spent five minutes on Mr. Veselinović. There's something strange going on with you today. Didn't you spend five minutes under the previous law, Mr. Veselinovic? I don't understand you. You know very well that the debate is united. You had your five minutes as an independent MP and you used it on the previous law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49804	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, if I may say so, Mr. Chairman. Article 106, article 107, first of all, so you've offended me now. You insulted me several times today during the debate. First you said and you made some suggestion that I was drinking today. Mr. Chairman, I don't drink at all, I drink a glass of wine once a year. Now you said something strange was happening to me. Do you know where you're sitting? Do you know what kind of work you're doing? Do you know that this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? The fact that you've been washing buses doesn't give you the right to insult the MPs, to get a role in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to chair the Assembly, because because you've done the job of the conductor badly, you've been transferred to the place of the laundromat, that doesn't give you the right to insult me. Getting such a role in SNS doesn't give you the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49805	Please, just let Mr. Veselinović finish. This speaks more of him than of anyone else. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49806	This speaks more of you and your party to which you belong, who has all the elements of a party that tries to quell any freedom of word and that belongs to totalitarian regimes. So, you took three minutes from me today, I wanted to use them now, I asked for it, you said something strange was happening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49807	Time. Mr. Veselinović, here, as you can see, I have allowed those manipulations and lies that you, as a representative of a group of people who do so, to continue to do so. I don't mind that. I'm totally proud to be a 17-year-old student at 17-year-old conductor's job at a car transport company called "Bačka trans" in Vrbas. I've been doing this for a year and on that year of my life since I was 17 years old, I'm proud, but also of all the next things I've done in my life, Mr. Vesenović, but you're not proud of some things, Mr. Vesenović. And that laundry and everything, those lies you make up as a professor who directs students says that about you and not me, Mr. Veseinovic. If I'd done that job, I'd also be proud of him, like I did a 17-year-old conductor job, and a commercialist job and a traffic manager's job, and a commercial director's job and a lot of other jobs I've done in my life. I'm proud of all that, Mr. Veselinovic, and you can't insult me with that. If I had done the job of bus washers and I would have been proud of that, but your lies, your destruction of Serbia, Mr. Veselinovic, in the previous period you cannot hide these lies. I asked why something was going on with you today for two reasons. Because as part of the debate, these important debates for the Jewish community and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you mentioned some alcoholic beverages, you asked to get five minutes again, only half an hour later even though you know very well that you have no right. That's why I said, you mentioned five minutes, Mr. Veselinovic, you spoke only five minutes ago, that minute you have as a National MP, an independent MP. Your threats, your insolence, everything you do can't scare SNS, Mr. Veselinovic. Your fear of choice cannot scare the SNS and me as chairman. I thank Mr. Veselinovic, this speaks more of you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49808	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of 107 dignity. So, most drastically, the reputation of the National Assembly has been violated, I would say, by the amount of insults we have just heard from Mr. Veselinović, which were directed to you, Mr. Chairman. I'm really baffled, enticing, and the amount of hate that's been expressed is one finding that there's something wrong with him today. On the other hand, he said he had a glass of wine once a year, and I think it was just today, because it's the only explanation why he's been acting like this today, that he's had a little more than one glass of wine.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49809	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I understand that individuals in the former regimes who are used to the right to enter the ministerial armchairs from student shoes and to be bothered if someone in their life at 17, 18 and 20 were doing a fair job like most citizens in Serbia. I know it bothers them, because they're used to it, I say once again, I repeat that from students' shoes they jump into ministerial, no days of work, but that's their problem again, it doesn't bother us, we simply respect all Serbian citizens, every job in this country, and I repeat once again that I am proud of everything I've done in my life. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word after the Rules of Procedure, Mr Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49810	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 96rd Article 103. Article 103 speaks of the right of the MP to advertise an injury, and Article 96 regulates that MPs who are not members of the parliamentary groups by mutual agreement determine no more than three participants in the debate who have the right to speak once, every one to five minutes. So, a fellow who rebelled talked for five minutes about the content of his speech wouldn't be worth discussing, but he used his time the way he thought he should use it. This Rules of Procedure were not written by farmers, it wasn't written by me, it wasn't written by the SNS. This Rules of Procedure was written by a party to the former regime, and I believe that no matter what he changed five organizations, only Jehovah’s Witnesses were not, that he was also involved in the adoption of this Rules of Procedure. What surprises me and I'm worried about, because it's not about misreading an ordinary MP, it's about one doctor who teaches law at the university and some knowledge, more calling than knowledge, who needs to pass it on to students. And now you need to be on the basis of his discussion and mine to see what's the difference between college-educated and wise. There's a difference between calling and knowing. I think our viewers are quite clear. But, gentlemen of the Parliament, you know, it surprises me, he's a doctor of law. He's a real doctor, and he doesn't know anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49811	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, as I can say, I'm proud of everything it says in my biography on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia website. Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49812	Both the previous speaker and the speaker broke before him, i.e. you violated Article 107 by not interrupting them. I may be on this side of the opposition alone and perhaps the others are not interested in the insults that come into my account and in my personal account and at the expense of my knowledge and calling. You're smiling at the president, you're smiling at it. You smiled just before when the previous speaker spoke in the most offensive way possible to my account. This is, of course, autocracy. This is a regime that doesn't allow normal discussion, which offends anything that's different...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49813	Thank you. Mr. Veselinovic, if you had continued to insult me, I wouldn't have interrupted you, but this is the way I have to. My only smile can be in the direction of homecoming one MP who only 15 minutes or five minutes before this said insults at the expense of others, and now complains that someone insulted him. But I'm saying, as I said, it says more and it comes, it's the home education of an MP who in such a way humiliates this high house. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. You can't get twice at the same time... (Janko Veselinović, from the post: You have now injured the Rules of Procedure. You're right. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) As a lawyer, sir, you must know that as chairman of the Rules of Procedure, I cannot break the Rules of Procedure again. So, unfortunately, you have to wait some other time. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49814	Thank you. So, the proposed amendment, we have suggested the same thing as during the debate on the principle of the proposed amendments to the Law on Infringement, that the proposal of the Government violates the provision of the Constitution which prescribes the obligation, i.e. the possibility of appeal to decisions by the authorities of the State, which determines on some law, legal interest, etc. The prerequisite for achieving that right of appeal is delivery. Under the currently applicable Law on Infringements, there is a obligation of the Court of Justice to submit, if it has, a decision on the agreement to the injured and his proxies, whether a proposal for an agreement has been adopted, rejected or rejected. I think that, given the large number of misdemeanor proceedings, this does not require specific or material or human resources, it does not significantly delay the procedure and contributes to the respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That my opinion is correct, also confirms the opinion of some of the judges of the criminal court with whom I have talked in the meantime from a search in principle to today, and I think that this provision, as the Government has proposed and adopted, will be discussed by the Constitutional Court and changed very quickly in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49815	I thank you, Mrs. Martinovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49816	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also thought not to answer the question, given that in the debate, in principle, we've been looking at the issue of this amendment. I just want to point out that in the working group that was preparing the draft which is now before you as a proposal, members were also the President of the Criminal Court of Appeals in Belgrade, Mr Zoran Pasalic and the President of the Criminal Court in Belgrade, Mr Marinovic and the President of the Criminal Court in Novi Sad, Mr Kozarski. And that exactly these solutions, which are in front of you, are the solutions that they have proposed, which are legally formed afterwards and have received their support again, so the president of Serbia's largest law enforcement courts. And with that, there is no reason that the judges who now claim that this solution is not good, and that the Government has imposed it. No, we have established a principle, indeed, what is modernly said, and in the inclusiveness, that is, the involvement of all relevant entities in the drafting of this bill and listening first to the word profession. You will admit that two years of practice in the application of this law has been quite enough to see what these stumbling blocks are to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49817	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49818	Thank you. So, with all due respect to what you've said, the presidents of the courts don't participate daily in criminal proceedings as judges, as my colleagues have spoken with me and who are only involved in the conduct of criminal proceedings. I tried to convince you, and I'll try again. So, you said that when the court decides on the agreement takes care of the interests of the damaged, and that's fine, but it's not logical that the same damaged person whose interests and rights are being taken into account when deciding on the agreement, he has no right to be informed that he will be given the judgment of the criminal court in which way and how the criminal court has cared about his rights. It really doesn't have any legal or financial or human or any other explanation. We can now call on whoever we want, but it's not logical, especially because the largest number of infringements are not damaged, and where there are very sensitive areas such as work, such as health and social security, public security, administration and so forth. So, in a few proceedings where there is damage, I think it is contrary to the Constitution to exclude their right to deliver a court decision on the agreement and thus deny them the possibility that, in some other proceedings, for example, the litigation process, some of their rights and legal interests further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49819	Thank you. Replica minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49820	Thank you. By appreciating everyone and, of course, the willingness of the distinguished predecessors to participate in the debates and proposing some good solutions, I, however, have more confidence in the voice of the judges who pass on to me the presidents of the courts than, with all due respect, fellow Members and fellow MPs, because it is the presidents of the courts who are responsible for the timely legal work of the court to whose head they have been elected, and besides, they have been elected precisely by this lofty home, or by the votes of the MPs. I think the rest of the topic was pretty much absorbed in the debate in principle, when I drew attention that it was a misdemeanor procedure. If it is the damaged person who considers that the plea agreement is not concluded in his favour or that he is fairly damaged, he shall exercise the right to both emergency legal remedy and litigation. In that case, the agreement on the recognition of the offence is an inconclusive evidence document. So I don't see what would be controversial about it. Just once again, I draw attention to the fact that it is not a criminal procedure, that it is a misdemeanour procedure, that the number of infringements in Serbia is measured by hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions. In any case, I claim that the solution proposed by the President and the Judges of the Criminal Courts, which lies before you today as part of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements, is more appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49821	Thank you. The word after the amendment again wants MP Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49822	Thank you. There is no need to demean my desire as someone who is very often through a job he deals with infractions not as a judge, but very often as a protagonist of the damaged. Because some of the fellow judges participated in the draft of this law, or amendments to the law, there is no need to demean anyone, and especially someone who participates in the same procedure, but perhaps on the other hand, as a defendant of the defendant or prone to damage. But now you've just said one contradiction, because you said that this agreement, or judgment to be adopted, represents in a litigatory procedure an incontrovertible proof. I ask you, how will they be damaged in a litigation procedure to benefit from the same correction if it is not delivered to him? I don't understand the stubborn need for the damaged to be left out of a breach procedure that is concluded by agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49823	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 16th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49824	Thank you. As a logical consequence of the Government's proposal to bring the injured down to witness level and as a logical consequence of the fact that the verdict, or the court's decision on the agreement, is not delivered, is also the consequence that the injured and his proxies are abolished by the law of appeal, which exists under the applicable law, you said that since the court is concerned about the interests of the damaged in deciding whether the agreement will be adopted or not, that it is quite sufficient. I'm telling you that courts, not guilty, no court, are without sin, because if courts were without sin, the right to appeal should not exist, but that right exists and represents one legal act, a civilizational activity, and also constitutional obligation and respect for the right to appeal, and also the damaged, is not only a constitutional obligation, but one result that has arisen... Minister, are you listening to me? (Nikola Selakovic, from the place: Of course. All right. So, the right to appeal, which has been abolished by this proposal of yours, is contrary to Article 36. The Constitution, which guarantees equal protection and the right to appeal or other legal means to anyone whose right, obligation or, and now we go to the part that is important for the damaged, decides on the law-based interest. The judgment adopting the agreement shall decide on the interests of the damaged. He has the right to deliver judgments and should have the right to appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49825	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49826	Mr. Chairman, I propose that the National Assembly reject this amendment, because it is completely unfounded and it is a completely acceptable explanation given by the Government, especially in the light of the fact that it is an offence, therefore, of offences that have a much less social danger than crimes. I would remind the public of Serbia, of course, and all fellow MPs, that in criminal proceedings and for easier, and also for more serious acts, the damaged do not have the right to appeal where exicio is handled, where the primary or more prosecutors represent their interests. As soon as they have no rights in criminal proceedings, what we would have rights to infraction, where social danger is far less, and you have a huge number of cases where there would be a general suffocation due to writing complaints. I therefore welcome the ministry's decision and should not accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49827	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the same amendment. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of the Courts You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49828	Given that during the debate on this bill in principle, the minister was not directly present in the hall, I would like the minister to answer the following question now. The court order law was changed a little over a month and a half ago and completed in this room. I'm interested in how it's possible that you didn't know a month and a half ago, and on what basis did you learn that there are neither personal nor material conditions to assume jurisdiction that the fiscal year began from January 1st, not from June 1st? You're saying, in your own explanation, that obviously this June 1st deadline is unrealistic, so I'm wondering how do you now know that the deadline is unrealistic, and you didn't know it a month and a half ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49829	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49830	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we claim that the judiciary is independent, and I claim that it is and should be so, then it should only give the initiative to postpone the application of this law. As is also said in the very explanation, and here you can see, so who's interested can take hands and read the initiative that came just from the President of the VSS and the VSS himself, which, given the fact, I quote, that the courts of 1 January 2016 have been introduced into the system of implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that the appraisals of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia have been granted to courts on an annual basis, the takeover of jurisdiction for half a year would affect the implementation of the budget and the annual report on the implementation of the budget of courts. It's one part of this letter. I am not going to quote this whole initiative as a whole, so it's a very clear and unequivocal reason, and certainly not incompetence, inability to transfer certain responsibilities, etc. As you know, the initiator and the promoter of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the regulation of the courts you faced, which you decided at the end of last year, were proposed by the Ministry of Justice's initiative. This is about the initiative of the High Council of Justice, which the Ministry of Justice, as competent to follow the rules in its jurisdiction, formally proposed to the Government and the Government to the National Assembly. In essence, this is both an initiative and a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49831	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49832	The attitude of the Turnover Movement, my personal position is that the situation in the judiciary is very bad, that the citizens of Serbia do not feel the existence of a rule of law and that this is one law proposing an extension of the deadline... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49833	Mr. Veselinović, will you return to the subject and the amendment you submitted? If you're going to talk about extending the deadline, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49834	I'm just talking about the reasoning of this law, or my amendment, because this law, if you didn't know, Mr. Chairman, is talking about postponing the law, delaying the application of the law in the field of justice and delaying the application of the law is one of the reasons why the situation in our judiciary is disastrous. I therefore suggested that this member be deleted, that the application of this law should not be delayed, because delaying the regulation of the area of justice led us to this. She brought us, of course, and a party state where one man decides and wants to... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49835	Mr. Vesenovic, again you are talking about the general state of justice, do not talk about the amendment submitted. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Here you go, Mrs. Martinovic. You gave up. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49836	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will not comment on the presentation of the previous colleague because he uses every opportunity to, on behalf of his non-existent party, hold political rallys on various topics. It is clear that the previous speaker did not actually read what the bill is, that it does not really concern the judicial function in the narrow sense of that word. So it's not about the trial. It concerns the postponement of the application of that part of the Law on the Regulation of Courts which says that the affairs of the Justice Department should be taken over by the High Council of the judiciary, which, by way of trial, therefore, by solving matters in litigation, criminal and other matters has absolutely nothing to do with it. On the other hand, the man himself is probably a small group of people, in the National Assembly representing himself and trying to promote himself as some new political leader and to some extent I understand it. I'd like to say something to you, Mr. Minister, I think it's much more serious than what the previous speaker has tried to say to you. Let me give my personal opinion. I'm not saying it's an opinion that the Department of Justice will agree with, that it will be something that the High Council of the Judiciary or here colleagues who are lawyers will agree with, but allow me, as a MP, to express my personal opinion. One of the basic principles on which the constitutional and political system of the Republic of Serbia rests is the principle of power-sharing. We've adopted a principle of fungi, flexible division of power, not the rigid division of power that exists, for example, in the U.S. Constitution. In Article 4(3), if I am not mistaken, it is said that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia rests on the division of power and that three branches of government control each other and that there is some kind of balance between them. I don't know how smart it is, and I don't know how consistent it is with this constitutional principle of mutual control and balance of three branches of government, legislative, executive and judicial, to deal with judicial administrations... Once again, the judicial administration does not involve trial, judicial administration does not involve dispute resolution, the judicial administration does not involve the decision-making process, neither in litigation, nor in criminal proceedings, nor in decision-making in the executive procedure, so the judicial administration implies the affairs carried out by the Ministry of Justice in relation to courts in the Republic of Serbia, and these transactions consist in enabling courts to provide adequate administrative, material, financial and other capacity for courts in the Republic of Serbia to perform their basic function, which is the function of the trial. Therefore, the judiciary does not in any way imply the trial and the judicial administration does not mean that the Ministry of Justice takes on the role of the court, any court of general or special jurisdiction in the Republic of Serbia, absolutely not. After all, the judiciary is not something that exists only in the Republic of Serbia. So in every country, that's what students at law schools learn, there's five classic resistors. One of these classic resistors is the Department of Justice. In every democratic state, in every state that rests on the principle of the division of power, the justice ministry is doing the jobs we in Serbia call the affairs of the judicial administration. When the Law on the Regulation of Courts was passed, it seems to me that there was one wrong intensities that the Ministry of Justice was absolutely divulged when it comes to the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia, that the Ministry of Justice was fully divulged when it comes to the courts in the Republic of Serbia, and apparently referring to the principle of the division of power, i.e. the principle that the court should be independent. The courts in Serbia are independent and judicial independence is not at all questionable by the fact that the affairs of the judicial administration, again I say, I am expressing my personal opinion, carried out by the justice ministry. I don't think it's a good idea for the judiciary in Serbia to function completely caratically, separately, separate from the legislative and executive authorities. Absolutely, the Ministry of Justice cannot interfere with solving specific court cases, nor is it your intention, nor does the Constitution, nor does the applicable laws allow you to do so. The applicable law allows you to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration, which means, among other things, the regulation of the Rules of Procedure, create conditions for courts to work independently and to make judgments in a legal and proper manner. In this regard, my appeal, since we will adopt this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is in fact an initiative of the High Council of the judiciary and that we will extend the deadline from 1 June 2016 to 1 January 2017. I think we have enough time to open up a wide public but professional, not political, party debate on whether it is in any way in accordance with the spirit of our constitution that we should rule over the Justice Department when it comes to doing judicial affairs and entrust all these affairs to the High Council of Justice. This is what I'm saying, not because I doubt the VSS has, i.e. He doesn't have the capacity to do justice work. At this point, obviously there is no, perhaps on January 1, 2017, they will have, but this is not about ability, or incompetence. This is about the Ministry of Justice, at least that's how I interpret Article 4. The constitution, retaining the affairs of the judicial administration in its own hands, actually maintains a constitutional principle that says that the division of power rests on the mutual control and balance of three branches of government, executive, legislative and judicial. Of course it is necessary to defend the independence of the courts, of course no one should interfere in the conduct of an individual judge or court council in a particular court case, it does not occur to anyone. That would be ten steps back, it doesn't happen in any democratic state. But that the judicial authority is functioning completely independently, completely separately, to break all ties with the executive authority, I don't think that's good, and I think it's ultimately contrary to this Article 4. The Constitution. So the Constitution needs to be interpreted as a whole. The constitution says that the judiciary is independent, but the Constitution also says in its initial provisions, so I am talking about the provisions of Article 4, that the three branches of the authorities are controlling each other and establishing a balance. The question is, what will happen to the balance between the executive and the judicial authority if we take away the affairs of the judicial administration, whether on 1 June 2016 or 1 January 2017, and give it to the Ministry of Justice, then we ask the question – well, wait, and what will the Ministry of Justice do to us in the first place? Because one big part of the Justice Department's work is about the Justice Department's affairs. You yourself know, Mr. Minister, how much effort you have made to create conditions, above all material and financial conditions, that courts in the Republic of Serbia and courts in general and courts of special jurisdiction function in the Constitution and the law prescribed. How many buildings you've painted, how many carpentry you've changed, how many new computers you've brought to courts across Serbia. If these jobs are excluded from your portfolio and trusted by the VSS, which seems to me by the nature of its operation, it's not someone who needs to deal with it, again, I'm building up to speak for myself. I think that these jobs can be done much more efficiently by the Justice Department, and I'm afraid instead of doing the courts a favor, we're going to do them some kind of bear service. Instead of stepping forward, we're going to take one or two steps back. In that sense, I propose, since we have enough time until 1 January 2017, it is almost almost a year, to open an expert debate on whether the affairs of the judicial administration should be entrusted to the VSS or these matters, which I plead, should be kept within the justice ministry. I think a much better solution is that these jobs are done by the Department of Justice. After all, you have shown in practice that you can do these jobs. Courts across Serbia are satisfied with the work of the justice ministry when it comes to judicial administration. I think that today's MPs and ruling parties and MPs of the former regime can agree on one thing, we can be satisfied or dissatisfied with this or that judicial decision, it is our personal right, but no one can question the fact that the Ministry of Justice has invested enormously, that the material and financial capacity of courts in the Republic of Serbia is being raised and that in this area the situation in Serbia is much better today than it was four or five years ago. So practice has shown that the Ministry of Justice can do very well. The big question is whether members of the VSS who are therefore judges and who should be exclusively committed to what is the essence of the judicial authority, which is the trial, not to provide material financial conditions for the courts, but to the trial, to solving in concrete court cases how much these people are even able to do in the same quality way as the Ministry of Justice does. In that sense, of course, we're going to vote for this bill of law, we're going to meet an initiative that came from the VSS, but I'm just saying this because I think we have plenty of time to open one expert debate about whether this solution to trust the VSS Justice Administration's affairs is either whether or not it's complete. My view as a lawyer is that it is not complete and that it is much better for these jobs to remain in the work of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49837	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49838	Madam President, Mr. Minister with his associates, I will be very brief. The JS Parliament Club will not support these amendments, it will support the bill that has been given, that is, amendments and additions to the Law on Regulating Courts and allow me to only say in a few sentences why. We, when we adopted the Law on Regulating Courts some time ago, adopted it on a proposal from the Ministry and I am sure that and when it comes to these affairs, the organisation of judicial administrations, funding, etc. where the ministry had in mind everything that came from Brussels, Venice, etc. that we must gradually and increasingly separate some of the affairs and place them in the exclusive jurisdiction of the judges, i.e. the VSS as the highest authority to manage the courts. With that in mind and seeing what awaits them in the coming period, the VSS asked the Ministry of Justice to come up with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts, that they are not in a situation, that at this point they are not able to take over these affairs with 30.6. from the Ministry of Justice that they should take over. For these practical reasons, I also talked about it in principle, there was a proposal to amend and supplement this law, i.e. delaying the application of this Article 34 from 31.12.2017 and 1.1.2017 respectively. For that reason, I don't think we should be opening up any new controversy about it right now. I understand when an amendment is written to fix the text of the law, etc. but I don't understand the writing of the amendment just to be against something that's a technical question, etc. Let me finish with one joke. When the elections are over, friends talk, one tells the other – congratulations, you win the election. He says, "No, I didn't win." I went into opposition. Why? Because I like to always be against it. So let me conclude one more time. For practical reasons, we for JS will not support this proposal of these amendments. Simply, we will support the bill as it was given, not because we consider it ideal, but because we believe that for practical reasons it should be possible to carry out good preparation and that with 31.12 certain jobs, not only when it comes to finance, etc. I think it's a matter of certain human affairs, etc. That VSS can take over these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49839	Thank you. Last reported, MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49840	Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, fully supporting what Mr. Martinov said, as our authorised representative, I am giving full support to the Minister of Justice to open a professional discussion in this regard. As for this amendment, Minister, don't worry about putting a star on your forehead to shine, you wouldn't do it again. These are amendments called political exhibitionism, these are amendments that mean nothing. In fact, because of the public of Serbia, you should just say the VSS has asked you to delay the start of applying what they will get as authority. So they asked you, and then you gave us this proposal that we'll accept. One more thing, as the early parliamentary elections are coming up, I expect, as I did in the principle debate, that you as one of the best justice ministers in the Republic of Serbia from World War II to this day, and I can say that because I have been in politics for many years and I have been working in this profession called law firm, you enjoy the undivided trust of judges, prosecutors and us lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49841	Thank you. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49842	As I was saying, on behalf of the PRECRET Movement, I have submitted an amendment to this law, two amendments to two members. The second member was the reason for our amendment in which we are asking for an effective provision on the needs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, to issue a report on the implementation of this law. It is nothing new as the motion for the PRECRET Movement, but I would like, Minister, to get an answer from you, therefore, of course, to all the arguments that we have heard so far from some ministers and from the MPs of the party in power that the ministry is already giving its regular reports on its work and that no such provisions are needed. So, what is your opinion on the fact that the minister of the law he proposed in his mandate comes once a year and says – these are the effects of this law, and these provisions have been applied in this and that scope, these provisions have not been applied, and these provisions should be amended?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49843	This law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the date of its publication in the ‘Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’. Your suggestion is to delete, not to publish anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49844	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49845	That's right. Please explain it to us, so that the citizens of Serbia understand the essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49846	I would like to ask the minister, therefore, if, after a certain time, he will come to the Assembly and inform the Assembly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49847	Posting in "The Official Messenger". So you can't talk off topic. Thank you very much. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49848	Thank you. The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with fellow Members, we propose the refusal of this amendment, the amendment to Article 2 which reads the same as the previous amendment of the speaker, which is to be deleted. Despite the really great effort and efforts of the authorised SNS representative, Mr Martinovic, to essentially explain the reasons, the first initiative of the High Council of the judiciary for this delay by 1 January 2017, the previous speaker obviously did not want to understand the reasons behind the delay, which are the goals achieved. There is a folk who does not want to see, nor is it worth showing, to him who does not want to hear, is not worthy to speak. But, Madam Chairman, I've been thinking a long time about what happened a little before during the debate on the first amendment, when Mr... Time? Come on, well, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-12-0.u49849	I thank you very much for your understanding, so that I don't interrupt you, good for you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 12 February 2016, starting at 15pm and 20 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I'd like you to ask your colleagues to come down to the O.R. in a few minutes and we'll start voting. Thank you, Minister. Dear People's MPs, please let us determine the quorum, to insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have working conditions. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 1st amendment, with a correction, was filed by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 157. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on the prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Culture, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who has not voted in favour of – five against – 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five people. 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Please, when I close the vote, you don't press the keyboard. National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, against – 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who has been abstained - who has not voted with 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six, and 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there has been no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six, and 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by six MPs from the Social Democrats' League, 10 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and five MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for five, for 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six, and 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six, and 154 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, against them; there was no vote of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – five, against – there is no vote of 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 18th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 160 MPs for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—there is no one who has not voted with 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted to the same text by the MP group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS and the ZS and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS and the ZS and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, none of the messengers of 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote of 160 MPs for - four against - no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The LSV parliamentary group submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 28th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group DS submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – five, against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four against them. 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 34th amendment was submitted by the SDPS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 35th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 37th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for five, who has not been voted by 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 38th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them. 163 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one who is abstentioned has voted against 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was submitted by the MPs of the DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the SDS, the ZZS and the ZS and the parliamentary group DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Mirjana Dragas and Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 10 against 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th Amendment were submitted by the MPs of the DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs of the DS submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs of the DS submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted an amendment to Article 42. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted on 165 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Miletic Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 15, against – 15, no one who has been abstention – who has not voted with 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and five MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six. 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no four MPs for – 157 against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a mandatory copy of the publication, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 168 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none, 164 MPs, voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, none, nor did 166 people's messengers vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 11 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, four, none, 164 MPs, voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a mandatory copy of publications, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – one, abstention – one, eight MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a mandatory copy of the publications. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial cultural and historical continent of the complex of the Military and Technical Institute in Kragujevac for an immovable cultural good of exceptional importance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 161, no one, eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the setting of boundaries of the protected environment and the measure of protection of the spatial cultural historical continent "Sremski Karlovac City core", an immovable cultural goods of exceptional importance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 168, against – there is no one with abstention, no messengers who have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 142. The Law on Public Information and Media (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), number 83/14 and 58/15, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, seven MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. I put to the vote the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 167, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. At the title above Articles 3 and 3, the amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—five, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in the vote of 164 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—five, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in the vote of 164 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the New Serbia parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, none, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was filed by the National MP Dr Ivan Bauer. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr. Ivan Bauer. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two people. 167 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—five, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in the vote of 164 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – six, against – there is no vote of 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, with correction, was filed by the MP, Dr. Ivan Bauer. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 167 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 166 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Bauer. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, none, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZSZS, ZS, submitted an amendment to Article 24. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, none, nor did 166 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 167, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill to remove the consequences of the confiscation of property to Holocaust victims who do not have living legal heirs. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infractions, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote by six MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Veličković. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP group DS submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 163 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A total of 10 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS and the DS together were submitted to the 20th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstention, who has not been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infractions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Violences. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 159, no five MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic, an ambassador group of DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic, an ambassador group of DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 164 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the bill amending the Law on Court Orders, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 161, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. Moving to the next point. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the NATO Organisation for Support and Purchase (NPO) on co-operation in the field of logistics support, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote by six MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Myanmar, which is represented by the Ministry of Defence on Defence Co-operation in the field of defence, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 159, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move on to a decision on the choice and resolution of the holders of judicial functions. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of public prosecutors, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 161, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put the motion for a decision to suspend the prosecutor's office in the D.A.'s special jurisdiction, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no two MPs voted for – 159 against – one abstention. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the public prosecutor's office in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 158, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to resolve the role of President of the Basic Court in Valjevo, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 162 against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members of the High Council of Judges, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 160, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to elect members of the State Council of Prosecutors from the public prosecutor's office and deputy public prosecutors with permanent office (with correction), in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 162 against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office, since 10 November 2015, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 160, against – two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office, since 25 November 2015, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 159, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office, since 8 December 2015, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 157 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office since 26 January 2016 in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs for – 156. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time to serve as judges since 1 February 2016 in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 155; seven MPs did not vote. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who have been elected for the first time in office, since 15 January 2016, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 157 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 9 February 2016, at 11 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 9 February 2016, at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 10 February 2016, at 14 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 10 February 2016, at 16 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 11 February 2016, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 11 February 2016, at 11 o'clock and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, has ever voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 11 February 2016, at 20 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Vesna Marjanovic, at a session on 11 February 2016, at 21 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you.
