ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46629	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted amendments to the draft law on police in order to improve the text of the law. During this discussion we will see a lot of amendments and accepted. However, the amendment to Article 1 we have submitted has not been accepted. Namely, Article 1, which regulates the subject of the law, reads: "This law regulates internal affairs, organisation and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, in the text of the Ministry, police affairs, organisations and police jurisdiction, as well as other issues of importance for the work of police and ministry." We have suggested that this member be reformed in such a way as to amend and read: "This law regulates police affairs, organizations and police jurisdiction, internal affairs, organisation and jurisdiction of the Ministry of the Interior, in the further text of the Ministry, as well as other issues of importance for the work of police and ministry." We stated in the explanation, as I had already said, that Article 1. The bill is governed by the subject matter of the law. As this law is governed by the police, we believe that the solution we have made on the amendment is more legal and logically appropriate and in line with the material and legal solutions and the system of law. The amendment was rejected with an explanation that the government did not accept it for reasons why police are a narrow internal organisation unit of the MUP. However, we suggest that you reconsider the amendment and adopt it for the reasons that the ministry's jurisdiction is regulated by the Ministry Act, and this is the Law on Police and is a predominant focus on regulating police work as part of the MUP. This should also be seen from Article 1, that the focus of regulation of this law is the fundamental subject of police regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46630	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46631	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have submitted more amendments as SNS deputies to today's draft laws. I think 45 is total on this bill, and among other things this amendment to Article 2. I want to take advantage of the opportunity, I don't think we're going to report so often, to thank the Ministry, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which most of our amendments have been accepted. So, specifically in this bill, 40 of these 45 amendments have been accepted. What is important here to point out, most of the amendments can be characterised as technical amendments. So, correcting some technical mistakes. Personal promotion, a personal advert to SNS MPs, was in the last place, unlike some other MPs who, for the last two years, have similarly submitted a large number of amendments. Some of them have been accepted, some have not, but have always used the opportunity to point out that it is very important, that their role has been crucial in this regard, etc. So, we as SNS MPs, and this time I point out Mr Vladimir Orlic, Mrs Dusic Stojkovic and Mr Nenad Nikolic, who participated with me in writing this amendment, do not want to point out firstly how much we are responsible for this law. The law is excellent and we in principle have highlighted and unequivocally pointed out that this law has no essentials, that is, no one has any fundamental objections to this law. This number of amendments, I repeat, is about technical amendments. On the other hand, I stress that SNS MPs are very committed and committed to participating in law-monitoring, participate in the writing of amendments, but our personal promotion is in the last place. Once again, I take the opportunity to thank the Ministry for the amendments accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46632	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46633	You will allow, the DS and the opposition disagree that these laws are good and good. The very fact that over 104 amendments have been accepted goes in favour of us working practically here today to amend and supplement the bill that the government has sent. I do not accept that there is one amendment that has been given technically and insignificantly. If someone does not understand the essence of the changes and additions, which we are obviously working on the draft law that is in parliament, that is a different matter, but there are a large number of members concerning essential matters concerning police work, members of the MUP, as well as citizens of Serbia. So, the comments that are made about the amendments, please, everyone concentrate on their amendments and, of course, individually on the others, and not on all of that one circus picture where we obviously have a situation, I say 104 amendments are accepted. That hasn't happened yet. It is good that it has been accepted, but it is bad that the law that arrived in the congregation was obviously not good quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46634	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46635	I just want to get to know the public, that of the 104 amendments, 60 is about literal and technical errors, which are accepted in the text of the law, so I'm grateful for that, but that it's not about how it's essentially changed the law, it's absolutely not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46636	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46637	I thank you, I use the time of the parliamentary group. It would be good if 200 and some members in 60 had written and technical mistakes to teach all of us and a mistake we won't repeat. You know, one point in a member can produce huge consequences for people's lives if it's in the wrong place, not to quote what it might look like. I repeat, as the authorised representative of the DS, Mr. Sutanovac, has said, it is good that we have entered the stage to accept the amendments. It would not be good to once again have a law that is so technically ill-prepared, either we need a lecturer or we need more time to discuss the law itself, or we need, which I think is obviously more dialogue in a phase where there is a draft for all who are not MPs, and more time for all of us who are MPs, in order to get into detail, before the law comes into play, to consider what is a technical mistake, what is it that is essentially something that we cannot agree on. So if there's anything good about this law, it's not to repeat that kind of debate about the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46638	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46639	Thank you for making a contribution to this kind of discussion. It's good that we pay attention to the points, the marks, the spelling, the grammatical, some of the lecturing changes that we need, that we have to be careful, because this is the highest legislative home, every point in a particular place, as they say, can produce a big problem, but these weren't the kind of mistakes that could make a big impact, a negative effect on the implementation of this law. I'm glad that, this law is such that there are no essential grudges, there is no fact that a certain amendment is very bad and that it has a negative effect. It's a good thing we're talking about grammatical and spelling mistakes. So, we're moving away essentially from the law, which is great, these details need to be fixed, and we've done very well both the opposition and the position to prepare this law. Yesterday on the Committee, where we were considering amendments, indeed of the 339 amendments, we adopted 103. Most of them are spelling, grammatical changes, but you'll hear in today's day, this is a great law, the shades we've corrected, that's why Parliament serves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46640	Dear MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the representatives of the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy who are monitoring part of today's session of the Great Hall Gallery. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46641	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic and the Honored Guests and Guests of the MUP, the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I is one of the 54 amendments that we have submitted to three legislative projects under which, even today in the amendment debate, we need to discuss here, gentlemen. I, Madam President, will also use those additional five minutes, which I have the right to change time, to give one kind of introduction to the content of our amendments, the number of amendments accepted, the number of amendments accepted and arguments, why some amendments are accepted, and why some are not accepted. Dear gentlemen, out of the 54 amendments, the People's MPs of the New Party, 14 amendments have been accepted. I can say that, as one dedicated MP to our legislative work here, I am pleased that a number of amendments have been accepted which, above all, specify the provisions of this bill. In other words, when we talked here and in principle, our objections concerned three criteria, inaccuracy, arbitration and intransparency of certain provisions of this law. They have been accepted by our amendments which increase the accuracy of this law and that's good. Those amendments we have responded to are not accepted. I want to inform, above all, our guests and guests from the MUP that today I will only be discussing on the basis of our amendments not accepted. We will not have a debate on accepted amendments today, we are leaving it for some next chance on some other draft laws, but I will have to discuss these unaccepted amendments, because it concerns our attempts to change the course of this government when it comes to arbitration and intransparency. Of course, I want to take advantage of this occasion that all MPs and MPs and our guests and guests from the MUP inform that we have now submitted 1,947 amendments to these, respected presidents of the National Assembly for almost two years now, and that 184 of these amendments have been accepted from that number of amendments submitted. So we have 184 accepted amendments, which, respected gentlemen, when transferred to percentages is 9.4% of the accepted amendments to the New Parties. We have already established this as one practice, the esteemed president, that this is a good reason to create certain analogies and since we are followed by extraordinary parliamentary elections, according to a certain analogy to me this percentage of 9.4% means that the New Party currently has a starting position in the extraordinary parliamentary elections of 9.4%, gentlemen. It is a good starting position for me, if the New Party were to participate independently in the elections. If more alliances, what am I up for, for example with DS, 30% respected gentlemen. We're changing one bad power and I'm thinking already of these parliamentary elections. Dear gentlemen, the amendment to Article 2 that we have submitted is not one of the accepted amendments, and I think it is Minister Stefanovic who is respected that this amendment should be accepted. Here, allow me, Madam President, to now try to convince the Minister that our amendment to Article 2 is one of the accepted amendments. Here's what happened to the honored gentlemen on this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have read carefully in this case and in all previous cases the contents of the Police Law proposal. They've been consulting with people who are in the profession. Note that there is one error in the content of Article 2 which bears the name – the concept of internal affairs. Of course, we reacted quickly. When we saw that mistake, we prepared a very precise amendment. We tabled an explanation for this amendment and at 9.45 p.m. on Monday, on the eve of our debate handed the amendment over to the office. What's going on, gentlemen? And, Your Honor, you and the president will hear if you are not informed. At 10:07 p.m., twenty-two minutes later, four SNS MPs, Mrs Gojkovic, ran to the office to submit the same amendment we prepared. So, what happens after that? Minister Stefanovic, instead of following a good democratic practice, a good democratic custom, not to favour MPs who are members of a political party whose member is also a member, respecting our better argument, our amendment that is more precise, instead of accepting our amendment that we have submitted earlier and better explained, Minister Stefanovic decides to favour the actions of MPs who are members of the SNS. He accepts the amendment, and he tells us - I will not accept your amendment because the amendment of the four SNS MPs has been accepted. Here is President Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic, wouldn't it be all right, here and now, to respect the argument that I have made to you here, to say that you accept our amendment to Article 2 as well, since we have a better explanation since we first handed it over. You can, Minister Stefanovic, also tell the MPs who are members of the SNS, who have submitted this amendment to accept theirs, because when it comes to finalising the text, you will see that what four SNS deputies have proposed and what we have proposed is identical and there is no doubt that the law will remain the same. Minister Stefanovic, I call on you to now at this moment, respecting good democratic practice and democratic customs, you say here as minister in this government, to accept this amendment to Article 2, so that this will be the 15th accepted amendment, so that our ratings will grow, respected gentlemen and ministers Stefanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46642	A good "Fox End" scenario, I'd think about it a little bit, all of what you said. I listened very carefully, if you were talking to me, to think that you would do something part-time for that channel anyway. Now the word is Marian Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46643	Ladies and gentlemen, I have patiently listened to the reasoning of this amendment, and I am glad that the government has accepted a series of these amendments, but I am not glad that in the ministry those writing these proposals, spelling mistakes are taking place. I am obliged to say, given that my previous speaker often contests my right, although he is a lecturer at the Faculty of Political Sciences and very often challenges my right to comment on the laws and amendments, which is why he may also dispute them, but when a lecturer at the Faculty of Political Sciences says democratically, and democracy is based, above all on equality, when he says that his colleague has no rights and when he challenges them in the sanctuary of democracy, as he said, then it is a matter of concern, not only in the National Assembly, in this Parliament where we work, as he says, but it is a matter of concern and a little broader, and in the education of our students, who teaches them at the Faculty of Political Sciences, given to challenge his fellow Members in parliament to comment on the laws and amendments, which he did not only once. But despite that, I will dare to comment on the amendment and the explanation of the amendment's proposings, and I must say that I am the only MP here with the largest number of votes he has received from the voters. None of the MPs here directly exposed themselves to 70,000 and slightly more votes since 2003, it was my best result, it was worse, but it's verifiable and there are no colleagues here, and I don't blame them, because we're all equal who didn't expose ourselves to voters, or who exposed himself to voters and got that result. Nevertheless, I believe that we are all equal, and those who have never exposed themselves to the voters, have the opportunity now to overcome this result, to defeat me in such a way, and if they will, they can also humiliate me with some 9.4% result. I hope, given that they are convinced of their size that they will dare to, as I did, go out five times in the elections, at least once, to say figuratively, the mouse holes come out and democratically expose themselves to the electoral body, and my former colleague knows it very well, because he stood up for it, to expose the electoral body of those who rule in the centre, he stood up for the one whose works he doctored. I believe, given that he was a doctorate, at John Flamenco, who said that everyone in the centre should go through a voter's will anytime, and I believe that my colleague, this time himself and my colleague, or my fellow farmer, will expose himself to the electoral body and prove that 9.5%, and I think there are a few zeros ahead, but I leave it to the voters to assess whether it's worth voting for. I believe in the eloquence of my colleague, but knowledge isn't just a bump, knowledge can be acquired and observed, it has to be applicable, and I'd like to be of some use, except for the lecturers, these commas and corrections, and I appreciate what they've achieved, but I believe that my colleagues will think very well that the knowledge that's just theoretical, which is bogged down and not some knowledge, because I think that gram practice is stronger and greater than load theory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46644	The word is Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46645	I would also like to comment on the amendment, as we hear from the promoter himself, the amendment has actually been accepted, only an identical amendment has been accepted with the same solution of other MPs, which is perfectly legitimate, normal, and I don't see what the problem is. The explanation is acceptable, for example, to the minister, the ministry, this argument written by my colleagues from the SNS, and that is nothing questionable. I don't see what he's talking about again, how apparently some bill or law is bad, because so many amendments have been written. A rapporteur for Serbia in the European Parliament, Mr McAllister wrote a report on us on six sides, and received over 200 amendments in the European Parliament. What, the report's bad? We all praised him as a good report, and another thing is what is done in parliament. That's what Parliament serves. That's what MPs are for. There's no government law. The government proposes, parliament passed laws and give it once already, if we are fighting for the Assembly as an institution, then let us also act as the institution deserves and is fitting. You know what parliaments are for and what MPs should do. Of course they need to correct mistakes or make new proposals, unlike the government, and it doesn't matter which sides they belong to. If we all want to go to the EU, not talk here about whether this is a better explanation and asking the minister to accept our amendment to jump our rating. Gentlemen, the only way to get your ratings up is if you put on your boots and go to Serbia and offer something to Serbia. I'm here tonight, I'll be in Baja's garden, tomorrow I'll be in Braniceva, so follow me to Jagodina, so we'll go to Ali Bunar, every day with the people and I know what the people think. You're free to speak to the department and this and that and get together because you're not with the people and you don't feel it, and you're showing it this way. You won't get votes. Alexander Vukic and the SNS will defeat you again to your knees and you will be defeated fiercely in these elections because you do not behave democratically, and you do not behave in accordance with European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46646	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46647	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment spoken of by his colleague is a literal mistake and the text says "Maninian", and it needs "maninian", a replacement of two letters. It's not a key amendment. Of course, this letter error has been noticed, I guess 80% of the MPs who have read and, of course, there have been a lot of similar amendments and of course we MPs are consulting each other who submitted the amendment and who is planning to submit. So it is perfectly normal that more MPs or more groups of MPs have noticed and wished to submit such an amendment. It happened, not only on this, but on many other laws to submit similar amendments, and we decided yesterday on the Committee to adopt it on a proposal from the government, the amendment of the group of SNS MPs, and at that point, Pavicevic did not mind, but it should be said that there were amendments that were also submitted by a similar group of SNS MPs and colleagues Pavicevic, which I am, which with my colleagues and we have decided to change, to reject the SNS groups, although the government has so proposed that we adopt, fellow Members of Pavicevic's amendment and he agreed there without any problems. So yesterday, there were agreements and consultations on the Committee, but indeed to insist that any amendment submitted by counterpart Pavicevic was adopted so that he would have better statistics and that no one else would adopt such an amendment. So, what counterpart Pavicevic has no right to bear, or if he has submitted, he will be denied. For what? Because he wants to fix the statistics. I don't think that's a good attitude to the citizens. In Parliament, we are interested solely in the effects of the law. The effect of the law is the same if we adopt an amendment of the SNS or colleagues of Pavicevic or a colleague of Mehe Omerovic or anyone else if it is the same, or produces the same effect on the laws. So you really don't have to play. The statistics may be interesting for some other kind of research, not for raising ratings among citizens. And here we have now lost 45 minutes around some spelling mistakes that don't have much effect and don't change the fundamental changes in the law. We've got 500 amendments ahead of us. It's a huge piece of work. Let's get serious and look around some of the fundamental changes that might have been made, and we didn't or did, and they're much better than the proposal at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46648	Thank you, Mrs. Obradovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46649	Thank you, Chairman, very briefly. All three sentences. First of all, it's not an advanced party, it's a Serbian Progressive Party, I think the proposer of this amendment, it's not the first mistake he's done for a long time, I think he's been doing it on purpose. Secondly, I am sorry that the proposer of this amendment is experiencing all this in a strange way, I would say, in a way that some other colleagues want to take over his exclusive right which he imagined he had, which is to correct the marks and the points of his amendments. So it's not like that, but I understand it. I urge you to show one more degree of understanding, why? We have an extraordinary parliamentary election ahead, and therefore the proposer of this amendment will no longer be able to do so and hence his dissatisfaction today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46650	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blažja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46651	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 3 that regulates the jurisdiction, scope and type of police affairs as an internal organisation unit of the Ministry of the Interior. We have proposed to amend the words at the end of the article – with the possibility of legal use of coercion; replaced by words – with the possibility of the Constitution and the law based on the use of the means of coercion. The amendment that we have offered and which we accept to our satisfaction is that it is more in line with the principles of the Constitution, more appropriate for the provisions of the laws that represent the definition of police, principles and objectives of the police. And for the reasons set out in the explanation, an amendment has been accepted. I just want to express my satisfaction that of the 50 amendments submitted by our 12 parliamentary group have been accepted. But at the same time, to point out that a bill with 259 members was submitted to 339 amendments, of which 104 were accepted. I think it speaks of the quality of the bill if, on average, almost every other member is accepted, it means that the law is not sufficiently prepared, the bill that came before us, but fortunately there has been enough hearing for the amendments, and we believe that these amendments will improve the text of the law. So once again, I urge you to pay attention when we consider amendments that have been rejected, because there are amendments that are of a technical nature, but the amendments submitted by our parliamentary group are all essential nature and I say once again, I urge you to consider those that have been rejected and that you may accept some more, because there are really good amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46652	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 4th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46653	First of all, I want to say that I have submitted 54 amendments, 14 have been accepted, none of which is as a colleague from the government wants to show up on the subject of commas, grammatical errors, etc., because it can be corrected in the legal and technical order. All amendments that have been submitted are essential, very important. This is one of the first amendments that I think should be explained, as the proposed law says the minister prescribes a way of doing internal affairs. It means the Minister of the Interior prescribes a way of doing his jobs. We believe that this is not in the spirit, the democratic spirit, and that it is necessary for the interior minister to propose to the government a way of doing internal affairs under the provisions of this law. I suppose that shouldn't be a problem for the government or the minister. The minister is independent in his work, but he's only part of the entire government, and it's completely unnatural that all ministries are then proposing to themselves a way of working and that the minister prescribes them. So this is something that is essential to us. This is something that, I think, Mr. Minister, you can accept without a problem, unless you're in conflict with the Prime Minister, so you're afraid the Prime Minister won't accept it as such. As far as I know, you're not, I hope nobody's going to be in any future time, this is an essential thing, and there are things like that later in the amendments that you've proposed, in which the same undefined what the government is doing and what the ministry is doing. So, the DS has not proposed any amendments relating to the correction of grammatical errors, regardless of the 40 amendments that have been accepted, which are not important to you in relation to these 60 grammatical errors. We believe that these 40 are also extremely important amendments and we regret at the very beginning that you did not actually accept those essential amendments that we will discuss later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46654	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46655	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we have submitted to Article 4 is one of the unaccepted amendments, and that is an amendment that we have responded to to a very important criterion on the basis of which we have measured the content of this bill, which is a criterion of arbitration. We have tried to reduce arbitration in the context of this bill and unlike the criteria of precision which is respected here by our guests and guests from the MUP, this criterion is not respected. In Article 4, the Minister of the Interior, in the framework of the provisions of this law, prescribes a way of performing internal affairs. We felt that instead of "Minister" should write "Ministership". We've been answered why it's not possible to accept our amendment and here's what it says in the explanation. The amendment is not accepted because it is based on Article 23(2). The Law on State Administration, which reads – the Minister represents the Ministry, brings regulations, solutions, administrative and other, etc., results in only the minister authorised to adopt sublegal acts. We believe that the formulation we have proposed is not in line with Article 23(2). The state administration law, since the minister, as it says here, is a ministry. That doesn't mean that this Police Act doesn't say that within the framework of the provisions of this law, the MUP prescribes a way of doing internal affairs, and if we respected this formulation, it would just mean that we're dealing with a minister here who wants to get away from arbitration. Since this solution of ours has not been accepted, I conclude that this is a minister who just wants as many cases of arbitration as possible, and I think, Minister Stefanovic, that this is not a good approach in a country that wants to be a modern democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46656	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the interior minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46657	Unfortunately, this is about not accepting amendments because of inaccuracies. So when you say the ministry prescribes a way to do internal affairs, then you wonder how the ministry brings something. So the Ministry represents people. These people have to act under some regulations, sublegal acts and powers. First of all, we need to get out of that supreme power that people give in the election. People go to the polls, some people win, some people lose, depending on how many people they trust. I always worry when people don't trust me. You know, when people don't trust you, it's not good. When a nation trusts and gives it the opportunity to exercise power, it gives him authority and responsibility. Fleeing from responsibility and hiding behind some general terms and general terms is a feature of some people. SNS people aren't real. We take responsibility. The minister is independent in his work, corresponds to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and in that part he has the authority to carry out certain actions, bring sublegal acts and works, of course, to improve the work of the Ministry, authorised by the citizens, by the government and by this National Assembly. So there's no need to hide from certain terms. The minister prescribed it. It is also responsible for its work in the end for the accounts of both the Supreme Court and the people of Serbia. When elections come, the people of Serbia say who did good, who did not do good, give or not give trust and then show whether we were right when we conducted all these discussions, what we were saying, who we told, who we trusted, who wasn't, who was wrong and all those discussions that were conducted with the claims that it was just, so, the people say whether it was or not. It's the essence of democracy. Someone might like it, someone who doesn't like it, but the point of it is that people as Supreme Judge say whether we did this right, whether we were right, whether we earned 0.9, 29, 59%, depends on how who. Someone doesn't deserve that much, of course. However, in this sense, in this particular article, it is very precise that the minister represents the ministry, adopts regulations and solutions in administrative and other individual matters, so the Ministry cannot, within the framework of the provisions of this law, prescribes a way of performing internal affairs, but rather does so by the one provided for by the law as bearer of this role, the interior minister. So, the Ministry Act can be changed, the Government Act can be changed, there doesn't have to be a MUP as such at all, but while there is, the interior minister represents the Ministry, authorized to bring these regulations and, of course, manage the MUP independently, along with, of course, all the control mechanisms and the responsibility it carries.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46658	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Adrian Anastasov. Here you go, Mrs. Anastasia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46659	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the minister has mostly given answers to all questions concerning the previous two amendments. But here, since I've answered, I'm really going to say that, as before, this amendment should be rejected, precisely because it's incorrectly defined, because if someone wants to improve their statistics, they don't need it this way. So, the ministry is one term, the minister represents the Ministry of State Administration Law. This government and all its ministers respect the laws of this country and therefore this amendment should be rejected because it is imprecise. It is clearly said in the Law on State Administration that the minister represents the Ministry and makes regulations and solutions concerning the work of the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46660	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46661	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. If we look at all the powers that the minister has, it is clear why the government has for many reasons rejected this amendment. With all due respect to the esteemed counterpart Pavicevic, who often submits very meaningful amendments, if we look at how it fucks within the ministry, of course it is the minister who determines the essence of the rules and, let's say, the working group for the making of the rules, etc., if the amendment were accepted, then it would really be unclear who would be within the Ministry who would adopt the act, who would sign the act and control its implementation. So, with all due respect to Mr Pavicevic, I think the government did the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46662	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46663	Dear Chairman, of course, I suggest that the amendment be not accepted for reasons which are already prescribed by the State Administration Act that the Minister, rather than the Ministry, I quote, is the Ministry and that in administrative and other procedures and individual views it decides on issues from the section of the Ministry. It's a finished quote. So there's absolutely no reason to be the Ministry, but that it's actually a minister. What I want to point out, I apologize to the lawyers, it's a common-known thing right. So I'm surprised that the promoters are amendments, one was even the interior minister, the federal minister, and one of the other promoters was a lecturer at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and I don't understand that they didn't have the general knowledge of the matter, and even one of the promoters was another minister in the earlier proposal. So it is surprising that in the principle debate there have already been objections to this member of the law precisely from those who have submitted this amendment today. It is shocking, I quote, as this member of the law has already been said in a principle debate that the minister wants to be raised to the level of the vizier. It's a finished quote. That was said two days ago. It's a shocking thing that the former prime minister and minister of the federal, amendment promoter, and professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences don't know that he's the minister's vizier. It is written in the Serbian Language Dictionary, book one, Matica Srpska, 1967, page 343. I can't believe our students are watching this, that teachers in political science don't know this. So, he's the minister's vizier, and he's the Prime Minister's great vizier. It just seems shocking. I don't know why they're not familiar with this, unless they're led by a possible hatred for the Minister in question. Finally, Mr. Chairman, in one sentence one pleasant news for all the MPs in this assembly, which is that in the city of Belgrade in 2015, the number of deaths in traffic has been reduced to 100, the lowest number of deaths in traffic accidents in the last 30 years. Thanks to the Belgraders, thank you to the MUP. Mr. Minister, thank you very much. This is your fault, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46664	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46665	In 2015, I think it will remain remembered not only for the reduced number of car accidents, but also for the reduced salary of those police officers who care about safety, as well as for the reduced diaries from some 2,500 dinars to 150 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46666	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, just return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46667	Mr. Ex-SAO Krajina, if I'm not mistaken, had a dilemma here whether former ministers could speak according to certain amendments. I don't see what the problem is that anyone is talking here. All of us here have equally received votes from the citizens of Serbia. We have the right to speak equally and to represent our amendments. Mr. Minister, you haven't explained to me why you refused my amendment. You talked about the inaccuracy of the amendment submitted by a respected counterpart, Pavicevic, but you did not explain to me that it is possible for the minister to prescribe a way of doing internal affairs. And Article 8 says -- according to the government's prior consent, the ministry's work and categorization of organisational units are determined. So, you give yourself the right to determine the practical way of doing internal affairs, and for the systematicisation and organisation that is much lower than the way in which you do internal affairs, you obtain the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So you're making your own collegiation. This is the essential thing. I'm saying, you didn't comment, I guess, because you either don't have a comment or you don't know it. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the parliamentary group of the majority, you just asked us to be effective. If you're asking us to be effective, let's do it effectively, not report six or seven representatives of the government to one amendment and say things we've heard from the minister. (Adriana Anastasov, from the place: "You answer and we don't answer"? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46668	Please don't throw it away. Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46669	I thought it was clear, but since it wasn't, I'll explain. So, since you have the Ministry Act, the Ministry Act prescribes what is the jurisdiction of the Ministry, and that cannot be determined by the minister, when we talk about jurisdiction, about the extent of jurisdiction of what is part of the work of the MUP. The way he's going to do it can't be prescribed by the Minister of Agriculture, because he doesn't know it, but must be done by the interior minister. If the minister doesn't know that, I know they were ministers in this country who didn't know what their job was, so they did other jobs... The minister needs to know what the job is and he defines the way he does it at work, as the plan of activities he will have in the framework of the MUP. As far as systematization is concerned, systematicisation is an act of consent given by the Government. It's an internal systemization arrangement, it's so in all ministries and it's good because it shows that in a broader way it's also considering the effects it produces on finance, on government's work in general, on other ways, etc., and that's why it's being placed. I think that's quite clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46670	Thank you, Mr. Minister. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic put together the title above Article 5 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46671	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in short, it's a purely technical correction for a very simple reason. This bill of law is extraordinary. Therefore, quality proposals did not even require any other type of correction to be carried out in this regard. I would also briefly remind my colleagues that we should be dealing with good proposals today, good implications for the content and quality of the law, statistics...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46672	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, you can only talk about the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46673	So, Mr. Minister, members of the government, we have filed from left Serbia this amendment because we have essentially introduced that the minister is also responsible and that the minister is also, not only an employee of the ministry, obliged to treat everyone equally, regardless of their racial, religious, nationality, their diversity arising from social origin, birth, religion, this is very important, political or other beliefs. In fact, the citizens of Serbia and we have all been witnesses here on several occasions that, Mr. Minister, who, in your proposal for a law, are exempt from such equal treatment, you exempt yourself from calling for other regulations, which is formally narrowly legal, but in a political, human, civilizational sense, by citing your functions, not your own personal, but the Minister of the Interior, because you will not always be the Minister of the Interior, you are essentially all being placed in the same level in dealing with all Serbian citizens in the exact same and identical way, regardless of their racial, national, religious membership, but also political commitment. You, Minister, in a number of situations, in a public space, have treated citizens of a political definition in a completely unequal way, which is not your party's political definition. You showed that at the press conferences, you showed it during a fake, non-existent "state impact" affair, you showed it at that "cutter" action...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46674	Mr. Stefanovic, can you talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46675	This is an amendment. The amendment explains why the minister does not act the same as all foreign ministry employees. The amendment seeks to put the minister in the same line with foreign ministry employees, so that the minister does not come to the test, the respected chairman, that in an unequal way treats citizens of Serbia who are not from his political option, which he normally does regularly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46676	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46677	My esteemed last name has said twice – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Looks like there's something else going on and on and on about something else. What's interesting is, firstly, people need to know that the minister is employed by the MUP. So it's one of the few exceptions. The interior minister works at the MUP, so the minister is employed by the MUP and therefore is subject to all provisions relating to the employees of the MUP. So we accepted this absolutely to see that there is such a desire to accept it. Finally, when a high representative of the regime comes out at a press conference, which for 14, 15 years has been in power in some organisation unit of the state in the city, the province, the Republic and then speaks as a representative of the party, making insults to all other citizens who think differently from it. It's scandalous, then it's different, when someone who represents the National Assembly does that. As for the ministry, when you speak at press conferences, you are referred to a question in different properties. When I speak as a representative of the party, I talk about the SNS's views that he represents at the time and I have the right to say what the SNS is. When I speak as a minister, I give the facts as much as anyone doesn't like them. You know, when someone is suspected of corrupt acts, when they're stealing from disabled children, when they're destroying the property of our country and the future we have, then we're going to talk about these people that way. They can be angry, they can not be angry, we can call them wonderful people who robbed our country, we can call them whatever you want, but that doesn't change the fact. The fact that someone is trying to trace corruption, crime, and anything like that hides it from the semantics, it won't go away. We will absolutely continue to fight both corruption and crime. All those who have tried, in the last many years to destroy the future of our country, we will neither allow it nor obey it nor turn to the other side, but we will continue to fight for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46678	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, you do not have the right to reply, since the minister did not speak to you. Do you want to use your five minutes? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46679	So, the interior minister, Dr Stefanovic, needs to know that on several occasions in public space, he marked suspects in some criminal procedure by party belongings, and you just did it now. You're saying you're defending the state, not realizing you're tearing it down. You as a minister have no right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46680	Mr. Stefanovic, you have not been given the right to a replica, but you have been given the opportunity to use your five minutes to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46681	Okay, let me explain. Obviously, the minister and I don't read the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46682	Please move within the framework of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46683	Mr. Becic, I'm moving within the framework of the amendment, but it seems to me that the minister and I read the same amendment differently. I'm sorry about that. I'm trying to explain to the minister, no offense, no need to lecture him, so he understands his function. You, Mr. Minister, can, as this amendment allows, always express political views in your party about people who, in your opinion, are suspected or suspected of doing this, have taken money from disabled children, what you have stated, but when you express it through a political prism, by attacking political opponents as interior minister, you are deeply disrupting the judicial system, investigation and institution you are leading. That's why this amendment is important, because it puts you in line with the other employees of the MUP, where you're employed, and you say it yourself, so why bothers you to appear in this article too through the acceptance of the amendment. Then why would that be a problem if you agree to work there, that politics has nothing to do with criminal proceedings, parties have nothing to do with criminal proceedings. I believe you don't want to make the police party police. That would be terrible for the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46684	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46685	What the party state looked like and what it looked like in some previous governments, we had a chance to see it, not because we had a chance to see it, but because the citizens had a chance to feel it on their skin. Sometimes it seems to me that he doesn't even talk to some colleagues in the same ministry. So, as far as the M.O.P. is concerned, I have to say, it's not part of the judiciary. So I can't do anything about the judiciary, because I don't belong to the judiciary, and the M.O.P. has nothing to do with it. We are part of the executive government, part of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has the right to certain positions it brings and is the minister of civil control of the ministry's work. As far as the police are concerned, the work of the police is being managed by the director of the police. The minister has the right to stand. The minister has the right to take his stand. Whether someone likes it or not, every man has the right to not like the minister's attitude, but you know then the election comes and the citizens say they like the attitude and the minister, and the prime minister, and everyone else or don't like it, and that's what the citizens say. They end up, as an ultimate judge, taking a position and saying whether we were doing good or not. I know that someone who can't get a vote, he always says – what do I care what the people say, but whoever wants to respect democracy will always recognise the voice of the people and will always say that it's the only important court in one country. What does our people say? If you're not interested in what the people say, why are we doing this job? The National Assembly is composed of national representatives. I was the president of this House. When people don't trust you or give you some miserable trust, it shows you how much they appreciate what you said, shows how much they appreciate what you did or how much they appreciate it if they give you that trust. Now you can turn it or not turn it around, people's trust is the measure of our work. Someone might like it or not like it, it's absolutely like that. So we've accepted the amendment, wanting to show that it's exactly what we support without any difference, but no one is going to take away the right of any minister, no government to come out and make views about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46686	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Stefanovic, despite his best wishes, did not at any time give you the opportunity to replicate. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: I have more time. You can only use it once per amendment, but since you forgot those rules, I'll give it to you. Now use it till the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46687	I love it when you're teaching me something. So, Ministers, I'll say very briefly, you are deeply mistaken because you do not understand that it is against the law, Mr Minister, that you use the ministerial position in public speech for party views. You don't understand that you break the law when you do that. Don't call on the people. Don't tell us the people gave us a certain percentage number, so we don't have to follow the law we've passed. You don't understand what the rule of law is. You don't understand, as Minister, you're the first among the equals and the man to do police work, investigations, which are part of the criminal proceedings. You can't paint suspects with party colors and say that in a camera. How can you not understand this thing? So that you have 100% in the election, where you get the opportunity to bend the law as party suits you and then normally people are afraid to make party police in this country. And if anyone doesn't think like you, tomorrow you will say – he and that member, and that party, have been arrested, as you have done many times.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46688	Mr. Stefanovic, I think that's enough. It wasn't enough for me to break Article 158 by giving you the word, and it doesn't suit you, and in the end, you're using that same Rules of Procedure now. Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46689	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the diversity in attitudes and the diversity in thinking is a good thing and it really needs to be nurtured. In the past, we have heard for almost an hour about amendments the MPs wanted to remove from the legal solution the minister's authority. Now in the past ten, 15 minutes we've been listening to some other solutions they're trying to put the minister in. I'd just like you to make a deal. I'd just like you to get nervous, because at some meetings the censorship coalition, some aren't invited, so there's your frustration about not calling those meetings and wanting to treat them here and making them untrue. So what do you expect the Home Secretary to do his job? So what do you expect from the Home Secretary fighting all kinds of crime? So what do you expect from the Home Secretary to fight crime and corruption? So what do you expect rather than having the interior minister and his co-workers from the police department and all the families of the police go to a press conference and say who was also detained for drug dealing, as has been countless times so far, while the ministry led by Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic? So what do you expect than for the Home Secretary to go to a press conference when justice is brought to those who have violated the law now but also seven, eight or ten years ago, to show that the state has the power to deal with drug dealers as well as with those who have put their hand in the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Someone here mentioned the action – the cutter, so he said it was a political action, but also party activity. Mr Stefanovic, you were then, or your ministry then brought in a member of the SNS board.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46690	Please, Mr. Granny, just get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46691	I'm talking about the subject, Mr. Vienna. I'm talking about everyone in this country having to do their job, he's got to be responsible for what he's doing. I say it with pride, because for SNS, for Alexander Vukic, for Nebojsa Stefanovic, there is no protection in the fight against crime and corruption, no membership card, no familiarity, no anything, or someone honestly and responsibly does their job or does it. If he doesn't, he'll end up where all the dishonests end up, no matter what his name is and what job he did and who he knew and whose membership card he was carrying. Has that ever happened before? No, it's not. It's important to be, to have a party membership card in power and that was enough to amnesty for everything you've worked for. This is the Ministry of the Interior, the government of Aleksandar Vukic, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of the Interior, the SNS will not see it that way. It's not just a separate, separate case, so it was when in one day due to similar acts in the area of corruption a member of our coalition partner was arrested, a member of the former regime was arrested, but was then arrested by a member of the main SNS board. We had enough cheek and courage to face the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and do it because what we say is what we do. What bothers someone, that someone doesn't understand, that someone thinks that membership is in one of the aggregate states of the former regime, because I see that in these gatherings of censorship, the coalition, it's actually the same, same people, the same people who have ruined everything that could have been ruined over the past 15 years. The same people who are destroying the Duke today, they don't understand. He thinks only if he sits in that room that they're allowed, from vineyards to pastures, through privatisation and personal wealth. Well, that's not allowed. The policy they would like to implement, that unless the interior minister is doing his job, does not go to a press conference, does not boast of such actions that suppress criminality and show the fight against crime and corruption, they would say – so this man does nothing. Now, when he does his job, now that the state is showing a fundamental fight against crime and corruption, regardless of party or any other belonging, now – don't do this to Mr Stefanovic. No, I'll tell you Mr. Minister on behalf of the SNS, just keep doing it like that, because that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect from you, and that's one important step to become an orderly state. And those who fear the members of the inner affairs who stand beside you, behind you and beside you, are in fact afraid of the law itself. They're afraid to apply that law. You have nothing to be ashamed of, or members of the MUP who are responsible for doing their job, who are doing business in accordance with the law and with the Constitution, and for that reason just continue in this way. That's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect and ask of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46692	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46693	I tried to get the previous speaker who yelled, waved his hands, understand what amendment he was talking about, and I didn't understand him talking about one amendment. When we talk about who was arrested, no one was arrested, certain people were detained. Mr. Minister, if you want Serbia to be a state-of-the-art and it works the way it declares your prime minister, it's not the job of the interior minister to announce who's in custody, it's the job of the state's attorney. That you usurped that position and what or are you afraid of citizens, so you need to have armed police behind you in a closed area with all the masks, automatic rifles, etc. Or you're scaring the citizens with that police force, I don't know what's possible now. Maybe this first thing you're afraid of is citizens, it's just an expression of the impotence and lack of understanding of the work that the MUP is supposed to do. The interior ministry serves to protect citizens and functions on the basis of the prosecution's orders. It's the prosecutor who's giving you a warrant. He's practically your boss and he should be holding a press conference, and you should refrain from commenting on the parties, because it certainly isn't your job. Your job is to protect all citizens of Serbia, regardless of which foreigners they belong and which party they vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46694	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46695	I see there is no understanding of the role of prosecutors in our system. The D.A. isn't the head of the Home Secretary. The prosecutor is in charge of the investigation, and he can give orders to conduct investigations at the interior ministry. The minister corresponds to the government and the National Assembly. So with the D.A., there's nothing in that sense. But, well, I understand that. Whoever's afraid of the citizens, we'll see it in the election. And today I've seen who's afraid of the police, and I usually know why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46696	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46697	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, the 5th amendment I have submitted talks about preventing "discrimination", as it stands in the law, but, behold, the amendment by my fellow MPs of the ruling party has corrected the letter mistake. My amendment is where more fundamentally, i.e. i predicted that it should be stated in the context of the diversity that arises and whose discrimination under this law is not allowed and that the words “born and birth identity ” should be added. We know that people transgender today in Serbia have a number of problems in exercising their rights, and above all, with state authorities, when they cannot exercise the right to obtain personal documents, to regulate their status in a number of state institutions, and I think it is good that the government has accepted this amendment that is principled, because there is no further form that discusses this right. But I think it's a good starting point for those people in their future accession to the state authorities to rely on this member who forbids discrimination and hopefully make it easier for them to exercise their rights. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Minister for accepting this amendment and I believe that in the future the persons who have so far had, because of their gender and gender identity, the problem in the exercise of their rights, will not be discriminated in the future and will be easier to exercise those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46698	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is submitted by the amendment, MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46699	This is one of the amendments that the government has accepted, i.e. the Committee, which concerns transparency in the work of the Ministry of the Interior, i.e., primarily the police. I have to express my dissatisfaction, and given the circumstances, I admit our mistake, I have missed that we have left that within three months it is necessary for the practical public to be informed of the state of security. I think, Mr. Minister, whatever it isn't in the amendment, it's an extremely long time. Because security can change dramatically in three months, and I think that, if possible, in some way, by some sublegal act, you need that deadline to be reduced, to make it much faster. The operational statistics that exist at the Ministry of the Interior are such that you can get them, I guess, if everything works right, in one day. There is no need for citizens of Serbia, and even the Assembly, to wait to hear in March about what happened during the past year. So that's something that we think is very bad, from the aspect of transparency in work, very bad from the aspect of knowing what the state of security is and what the state of security is in the MUP itself, the report on work too, and that's the essential thing for us, although it will seem to someone that it doesn't matter. I will remind you that by 2000, the public had never even had the opportunity to have insight into the work of the Security Control Committee, not even there were committees to control the service, or at that time defence and home affairs. Today, it is done significantly better, but still not at the level required and necessary, in order for Serbia to be part of a democratic, civilized and developed society. I think this is something minimal that you have to do, because, I say, we are aware and we are witnessing that things happen from day to day, and that is something that is important in terms of both civil society and all citizens, and certainly Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46700	The 6th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46701	In Article 6 following Article 3 of the opinion, we also have to add the position 4 which reads – information on the state and stage of work of any case in the MUP is information of public importance and must be given at the request of institutions and citizens. This is where I call for the position of the 1st member where he writes – the work of the ministry is public and without the addition of this work we thought and the whole of article 6 loses meaning for us because without the addition of this attitude it is a partially subjective dosed and incomplete, inaccuracies in the work. The public in the work is one of the basic principles and achievements of the modern world and it cannot be flossula especially in such sensitive issues. The adoption of this amendment would show that the ministry had no intention of manipulating the public in the work, but rather the accuracy of the sayings. I will also use time to add, and in some version I would refer to the previous interpretation of the previous position of counterpart Vladimir Pavicevic, who spoke about alleged plagiarism in certain amendments and not to show negative emotion, but rather to say that I am very glad that certain views of the Serbian People's Party, which are shown through the amendments, are an inspiration for many colleagues who later build them up and build on certain things, especially in the variants of certain amendments that are adopted and one advice not only by the current police minister, but by many others, that in the case of adopting identical amendments, they still pay attention only to the timing of the amendments, and then we will know who has really submitted and who has plagiarized, perhaps the plagiarisation is too serious, but I cannot avoid it, who has plagied or copied those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46702	The word has the interior minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46703	The point of accepting the amendment is not only the speed of submission of the amendment. So you're looking at the formulation. The one that's more in the spirit of the law. The government is proposing a law. The government is forming a law in line with the government's policy, the ministry's policy. After all, the National Assembly may decide to vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. It is up to the National Assembly to adopt any amendment that it wishes and the government is obliged to respect it. There are people among these people who vote. The same ones who vote, you decide whether you want it or not. Whether it's enough or not, that's what citizens decide in the election. They give away trust and say how many national representatives they will be. Someone's got one, someone's got 20, someone's got 50, etc. And that's the essence of democracy, as far as this particular amendment is concerned, I have to tell you, in addition to the arguments we've given, because the concept of information of public importance and the definition prescribed by the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning, you have one inaccuracy that could lead to confusion. You say - the information on the state and stage of operation of any subject in the MUP represents information of public importance. First of all, that's not true under the Code of Criminal Procedure. You can't know the state of work, you can't get that information without the prosecution's consent. By introducing this article, if we had adopted your amendment, we would have disaved the Code of Criminal Procedure and then more prosecutors would not have been significant, and in that sense anyone who asked and said – as far as the investigation came, he might have known. That would violate the investigation. That would completely disrupt the investigation. So your amendment couldn't be accepted for that reason. There's no such thing as whether someone's filed sooner or later, whether it's from the government or the opposition. It's just that the amendment isn't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46704	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46705	We've made one correction to Article 9, but I find it interesting now, given, Mr. Minister, that you just said that the Minister of Agriculture can't prescribe a way to do internal affairs. This means that the Minister of Agriculture, as a member of the Government, cannot vote on you in the Government when, according to our proposal, it decides on how to conduct internal affairs, but you have no problem having a problem with the Minister of Agriculture establishing a detour and categorisation of the organisation units of the MUP. So, you're on your own at college. Or the government where the Minister of Agriculture sits, I don't know why you singled out the Minister of Agriculture, but let it be her, decides or doesn't decide. So either that woman is involved in internal affairs, or she's not. To participate in the organisation and systematization of jobs? I'm sorry, it's just a security policy that needs to define the needs of Serbian citizens, systematize them through the organisation at the MUP, and that later the human resources sector fills the needs of human resources and works in accordance with needs, primarily to protect and serve Serbian citizens. So, I don't understand in any way, I have to tell you, those political answers you're giving here. I'm asking you to talk completely professionally. You brought with you eight people who today, instead of doing their job, are sitting here, giving you support. Then concentrate and give us answers that don't concern false accusations you're using and you're talking about here today, which no court has even conducted. You know perfectly what this is about. Unless you have some knowledge that something is going to happen, as you had the knowledge that someone was going to report...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46706	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46707	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46708	Please return to the amendment you submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46709	I would only ask that then and the Minister when he did not talk about the amendment also return to the amendment. So we're going to have a debate just like we started. No one in the DS spoke beyond the amendment, but only about the amendments, and we listen to various things that concern even some children with special needs in Vojvodina. I don't know what that has to do with any of the amendments proposed by any of the parliamentary groups here today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46710	You know very well that the representatives of the government are here to explain why they have accepted or not some amendments and that they can talk about it, and I ask the MPs to focus on the amendment they have submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46711	Does it seem like I'm not doing it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46712	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac, we understand each other. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46713	Well, a child robbery of any kind is terrible, especially of children with special needs. That's terrible. That's scandalous. But, you know, as I would say, I don't see anyone in this room defending it. I don't think it's politically wise for anyone to even try. The robbery is a robbery, and there's no further explanation. If anyone supports it, I don't understand it. I don't support it. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: what amendment does he have? Well, from what you said earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46714	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, Minister of Response to what you said. Please listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46715	You asked a question, so let me explain. I'm here to explain to the MPs. As far as this is concerned, therefore, when we talked about who can prescribe it, I did not say that someone who is a member of the government and who participates in collective decision-making cannot decide. It's the government's jurisdiction, but it's not possible for another minister, whoever it is, to prescribe another minister what his job will be. Only a government can do that as a collective body. In those powers that are not original, such as the Act on Internal Planning and Systematisation, they are already entrusted to the ministry in how much the ministry should decide on its work, on its operation, on defence policy, anything like that, and in that part how it affects the government's work, on the amounts allocated each month, on a given division, on funding, on the number of employees, the Ministry of State Administration brings and, ultimately, proposes to the government an act on the maximum number of public sector employees. So the government also prescribes ministers as many employees as they can in their sector. Ministers in that number need to make the best organization. That's the fundamental difference. That is why this act is brought to the government, because the government participates in one part, because the minister could prescribe that there are 10,000 more employees in his ministry because he thinks it should be done, but the question is whether it can be paid and whether it can be supported. That's what the government decides, that's the government's original jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46716	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Zoltan Peck and Anamarija Vicek submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 9th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46717	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 9 which regulates the organisation of the ministry. We have suggested reshaping Article 9 of Article 2. With the amendment, we propose a more precise definition of the elements of the Internal Editing and Systematization of Jobs. We believe that it is necessary to define precisely that the regulation will regulate who manages the organisational units, which are the powers and responsibilities of the managers, then, that the conditions that must be met when establishing a working relationship, as well as the total number of officials, police and state officials, as well as the deputies who can be employed in certain jobs. The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that Article 165(4) provides that a special regulation will be adopted on the acquisition of acts, titles, career developments and all other issues of importance for human resources management, which will certainly include the subject of the regulation listed in this amendment. We studied the whole law, so we also studied Article 165 of Section 4. He says: “The way they act, the calling of the ministry, and other questions related to their use, or career development, is prescribed by the government within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. “ This shows that the reasoning has nothing to do with our amendment at all, since it does not match what we suggest to be precise with the rulebook, that the law prescribes what the rulebook should contain and what will contain the regulation that will be made by the Government. This shows that either you have not carefully and in detail considered the amendments, or that it was simply a will not to accept the amendment of the opposition and that acceptance is reduced to a minimum, because these are really essential amendments that will allow easier application of the law. When they're more precise, when they're more detailed, then there's no dilemma about application and there can be neither abuse nor failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46718	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46719	Thank you, Chairman. In principle, Article 9 provides for the largest part of what is required of this amendment. So, and organisational units, and powers, and responsibilities. What the applicants asked for as a supplement, are the conditions for employment in each job, the total number of police officers, civil servants and deputies needed for systematicised jobs. I agree, too, that this amendment should not be accepted, precisely because this law deals with human resources from beginning to end. That is why the human resources sector has been formed, which should implement a career progress policy and implement a policy of predicting and projectioning police needs. That's exactly what this is about. So, over time, projections of needs and conditions for employment will have to bring some sublaws and will be defined exactly and precisely what employment conditions these are, of course, they will be strengthened, as we have already heard, as well as what criteria will be implemented during career progress. So it won't be possible to use some personal affinities in selecting people who will receive a higher rank or within the same advancement. So, in that sense, I agree with the Government's view that it should not be accepted, although it was a good intention to submit amendments, because the whole set of laws is dealing with human resources right now, and that will be a priority – regulation of employment conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46720	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46721	Ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared two remarks for Minister Stefanovic on our amendment to Article 9. First of all, Minister Stefanovic, it is true that in the National Assembly a crucial word is given by MPs, us 250, but respected gentlemen, and the National Assembly can hear the voice of those people who are not elected in the elections, but acting within civil society, for example, want to control the actions of the executive authority a little bit. Here, we have a guest from the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy. Minister Stefanovic, their proposal was that, instead of the government prescribing the principles for the interior organisation of the ministry on the basis of the criteria of the public document, the government should prepare one regulation on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the ministry, which will establish the workaround and categorisation of organisational units in the ministry, etc. Since we have guests, Minister Stefanovic, who have not been elected in the elections, and yet have tried to say their opinion and attitude, I think it is good that you respond to their proposal today, so let's see why an amendment prepared by these gentlemen is not accepted. The second note, regarding our amendment in particular, you told us – not to stand the Ministry, but to stand the minister, because the Ministry does not make a person, not a man, and the minister is still a man. Minister Stefanovic, so that's where we differ, we argue -- he can't make a face for regulations. The regulations are passed by state authorities, and the highest authorities of the state administration are exactly the ministries, and that is why the Ministry should stand, respected gentlemen, as evidence of that. Here, for example, we got an opinion here, not from the Prime Minister, but from the government's opinion. The government proposes, the government accepts, the government does not accept, it is possible that the ministry stands, as is possible for the government, and not for some individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46722	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusan Stojkovic, Aleksandra Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46723	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 11, which regulates the Ministry's jurisdiction and we have provided for an amendment to three interventions. The organisation of jobs and the creation of conditions for work in the Ministry, i.e. standards on the work of the Ministry, are contained primarily in the Ministry Act. Since this is the draft law on police, as I was saying about the first amendment of ours, we believe that in the emulation of the Ministry's affairs, we should put jobs first in relation to the police. We also believe that public notices for the implementation of the Ministry's programme and work plan must be at least one year. We also intervened in the amendment to draft the proposal, noting that it was a proposal for an act in addition to the implementation and monitoring of the implementation of strategic acts. The amendment also intervenes at point 3 of this article, which achieves the obligation of the Ministry to provide for co-operation, we propose to provide for the Ministry's obligation to ensure co-operation with independent regulatory bodies, such as the Citizens' Protector, the Personal Data Protection Commissioner, the Trustee on the Protection of Equality, etc., taking into account the constitutional and legal importance of these institutions, the control of the legality of the work of the Executive Authority. Third, the draft law in Article 11 defines the responsibility of the Ministry and is disputed according to us, paragraph 13), which provides that it is the Ministry's jurisdiction to provide accommodation and nutrition. It is not clear from that provision to anyone, not when, for any reason, it is proposed to provide accommodation and nutrition, so we have suggested that this point be deleted. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the Ministry does not only co-operate with independent regulatory bodies but also provides regular co-operation with other authorities and bodies authorised by law for external police control. Again, this is such a shame and such a brief explanation, the length of the reasoning doesn't mean that it's also quality, but it doesn't include a part of what we've predicted with the amendment. This again shows how superficially the amendments have been analysed. There is neither a speech nor a first part of the refusal to put an accent on the law of the police to predict first everything that is related to the police, then, we did not foresee, we did not only make a commitment to co-operation with independent regulatory bodies but we also listed them alongside other authorities and bodies which are legally authorized to external police control, which is written and remains to be written, there is no word on point 13) which is disputed by us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46724	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46725	I'll tell you, as far as the first part is concerned, it's a methodological approach, you're up for one, and we're up for another. So, if we've applied this first in all the other members, we can't do it in this article, but I don't see that there are any fundamental differences, that's our opinion. As for this second part, there's no need to cooperate with any control organisation that controls under other laws is defined through this law. That's exactly what it would mean if we didn't make the law that we were going to cooperate, they couldn't control it. That's where any sense of control would be lost. They give them other laws and regulations the opportunity to control and carry out independently, to say, that kind of surveillance in the MUP, whatever the MUP thinks or doesn't mean. So that's the essence of control. The Ombudsman, the Commissioner for Public Information, the Commissioner for Equality, the Assembly Committee may, on the basis of laws that define their work, come to the MUP and require certain information, information and the Ministry and data and information must be provided to them. Of course we did not want to list, we are working here with a large number of institutions to the extent that the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is. As for this last one, accommodation and nutrition, we have two types of activity in that sense. First, it concerns members of the police, i.e. the MUP on certain tasks on which accommodation and nutrition are provided in the MUP facilities and food paid by the MUP, and it is about police officers who are involved in some tasks, for example, in the area, in the land zone or in the field or anything like that, in enhanced activities, in the repression of public order and peace violations, and that part. The interior ministry has one part of commercial activity, therefore, in resorts that it can use in its contents. So they were built ten years ago, in the '50s, in the '70s, and of course they were housed insiders when they were on assignments and we're saving money. So our costs are less than to put them in some of the facilities that are owned by others. Maybe it's some inaccuracies, but I wanted to tell you what.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46726	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46727	I'd just like to clarify the point. I want to start by saying, and DS representatives did not want to participate in the discussion of the amendments that the government, or the Committee, accepted, but unfortunately, the esteemed colleague Orlic and SNS even took advantage of our time to tell us that he has given us an amendment that is epochal, which concerns preventing "discrimination". So, a printing error in discrimination, so it was important, and that's why we came forward, and we're going to participate in the work of all amendments so that the citizens of Serbia see that we haven't given amendments that aren't fundamentally important, on the contrary, that we've given amendments that are fundamentally important. The bill provides for the Ministry to adopt and implement specific plans in the construction, use and maintenance of the information system. If so, it would mean that the MUP cares about all information systems in Serbia, whether they are corporate, whether they are private, whether they are whatever, we thought it could be, and that was accepted exclusively, only an internal information system that is the responsibility of the Ministry itself, and that was accepted, I thank you. I think it's a good idea to do that and make it clear, because if there was a proposal left, as you gave Mr. Minister, it wouldn't be possible to perform your function, or to do things according to the law as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46728	Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46729	This is also one of the amendments that has been accepted and is very essential. So, it does not declare itself as it was, because it cannot depend on the assumption of what it is, and the assumptions are not clearly defined and we do not know what the assumptions for police independence mean and it is found in the amendment that the police are operational, independent, ultimately and operationally independent. So this is something that, again, I say the accepted amendment, and it is important for the citizens of Serbia to hear, given that the atmosphere is being created here that the opposition makes amendments concerning grammatical errors, dots, commas, signs of shouting, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46730	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Dr Blažje Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46731	Dear ministers, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, Article 12 refers to part of the law that deals with the ministry's jurisdiction and he says that – the ministry provides assumptions about the operational independence of police from other state authorities in performing police affairs and other law of certain matters. In the next position, he says that - the police's operational independence does not refer to police duties established by law governing criminal and criminal proceedings. Item 3 in which we have proposed the amendment is – the Ministry provides organisational assumptions for police work in line with adopted policies and strategic acts, and we add – National Assembly, Government. This is what we believe, because in the Ministry in providing organisational assumptions for police work, it should act in line with adopted public policies and strategic acts, not only of the Government, but of the National Assembly, if the institution of the constitutional and legislative authorities, thus ensuring a greater level of trust between the public and police, promotion and development of police ethics and professionalism, as well as the fight against police corruption. The ministry and the government have accepted this amendment and it is one of the 12 amendments accepted by our parliamentary group, of the 104 amendments, which has been submitted to 250 members of this law. What's my basic objection to your service at the Ministry, Mr. Minister, and that applies to other ministries, and I keep pointing out, is the lack of lecturing. I would ask you that in the next one, it is not just about your ministry, it is all the ministries doing it, to seriousise this whole law-making, to have someone treat this text, because someone next to the MPs will read it, and this bill was signed by the Prime Minister, so it's a little degutant that the Prime Minister is signing unlectured texts. It's nothing malicious here, and it has nothing to do with opposition and position, but you'll agree that the texts have to come in language correct, correct with correct interaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46732	I apologize, Mr. Bradic. I hurried to give you my word and didn't mention that the amendment was accepted and that it became an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46733	I'd like to draw Mr. Minister's attention to article 13 on preparations for emergency or wartime work. It was completely shocking for us to drop, in preparation for the war, especially not to consult regulations in the area of defence. This is not a linguistic error, grammatically, this is essential. I can't imagine how the MUP is preparing for an emergency or war situation, and it's not in co-ordination with the plans that this Assembly adopted and which are binding on all ministries, including the MUP. I'm glad you accepted our amendment, but I express quite a surprise that something like this has come out of your ministry and is suggested that such a thing be done without co-operation with the defence, or defined documents that exist in the defense. I also find it very interesting that no one but the DS has noticed it. There are people here who have participated in various wars, and they should know it better than we do, because they obviously participated in these wars in some way that wasn't defined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46734	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Members of the 13th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Pavicevic, you said you wouldn't report for accepted amendments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46735	Dear ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is a great pleasure, I mean to every MP when it contributes to a more precise legislative project, in this case better. Since this is an accepted amendment, one of the 14, I also announced this morning that I would not discuss it on the basis of accepted amendments, but Mr. Becic, there has been a fundamental change in circumstances. I have noticed that SNS MPs are reporting, Mr Markovic is preparing to discuss each and every one of them accepted, although there are 136, many of them here. Not only that, Mr. Becic, but that after I speak, or other opposition speakers, three or four of them are reported to be discussing, and then I think it's appropriate that I explain my amendments, including these 14 Mr. Becic, who have been accepted. In particular, this amendment, as far as...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46736	Mr. Pavicevic, please make sure he's been doing all the information, he hasn't been that kind of a case in the last hour, I'd ask you to behave accordingly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46737	Here, let's check it out. If the circumstances change again, and there's no such thing as what I said, I'll stick to my announcements. We'll check it out in the next 10, 15 minutes or half an hour, and if you confirm what you're saying, I'll do it. Here on our amendment, I will point out once again, not now to guests and guests, because I see that they are closely following and accepting this, but to their fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, that language, grammar, spelling issues are as important as other issues concerning the content of the amendments, which are brought by the MPs. We don't need to be linguists to notice that. It is enough to take one dictionary, in the 2006 issue of the New Sad Mother of Serbia, and here's what the language says - a system of words that works according to certain grammar rules, and serves to express thoughts in human communication. So imagine we agree that there are no rules here, so we don't want the wilderness, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46738	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. On Article 14, 18, 30, 52, 58, 59, 60, 62, 83, 97 and 233 of the amendment, MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together. Do you want to follow this amendment, Mr. Sutanovac? I don't think you wanted to answer this amendment. The 14th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46739	In Article 14, the law rightly gives the minister the special right to request a specific report on the state of certain cases, but also correctly to give the public the right to know which cases the minister has requested a special report in accordance with the self-proclaimed manner. The part to be added is: the public must be informed of the cases referred to in Article 1 in an annual report on the work of the ministry. For the sake of increased public interest, or any other reason, it was justified to give the Minister this right, as a form of information, or control of work for which, of course, is responsible, there must be a mechanism that puts it all under control, and we know that the best control is, however, the control of the public. The public has the right to know which items the minister has been particularly interested in and to request a special report, because what objects are then would be the motive of this very interest. It is known that the conduct of members of the MUP may also be different in such cases, where there are special interests in certain cases and when specific reports are required. If all these cases were to be reported in the planned annual report, the suspicions of the public and the members of the MUP would be eliminated, so that such specific reports would be sought in order to control the case and conduct. It is certain that the Proposer did not have the opposite intention of what was said through and through, and that he would gladly accept this amendment if he co-ordinated himself with the principle that those who are given special rights also belonged to special responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46740	Thank you. (Gordana Comić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46741	Thank you. Just before you gave the floor to MP Petric, you read as one amendment to the amendments to several members of the law, in violation of Article 27, which obliges you to conduct a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The amendments must be discussed in accordance with the order prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, which the amendment goes first in the debate, which the second, which is third, in relation to the nature of the amendments from those who propose that the member be deleted, through those who amend members or add views to the member of the law. However, amendments to the debate in particular must be discussed in order. I have not been able to understand why it amuses you to read, as an amendment due to applicants, amendments to several members in the debate, but the Rules of Procedure prevents you from doing so, so I ask that we have a discussion in detail in the future, according to the amendments that the Rules of Procedure obliges us and you to do so. Thank you. I don't want you to make a statement. I assume it's an accidental mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46742	Mrs. Komic, I am surprised by you, you have been here for a long time, this is a decline, this amendment has been handed over as one amendment from a group of MPs, meaning on Article 14, 18, 30, 52, 58, 59, 60, 62, 83, 97 and 233, not amendments, but the amendment has been submitted jointly by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. This is how I got from the session's preparation, as the chairman, and I read it. If you think our services and our preparation sessions haven't done it in a good and business way, then we'll discuss it at some other point. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46743	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, I was just in the principle debate talking about, among other things, this article, Article 14 that defines the minister's jurisdiction and said that the poor solution allowed by the minister, as Article 1 said, with respect for operational independence in the conduct of police affairs, especially when police are taking measures and actions in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, the minister is seeking reports. We have made an amendment to change this, so the minister can only request a report if he acts at the request of the public prosecutor, or the court, as the Code of Criminal Procedure says, which speaks of the prosecutor or judge acting if the police do not act, may also request a report from the minister. I'm glad it's accepted. I was saying that in the context that as it was in the bill, the powers of the minister have been defined too broadly and open up the possibility that the minister can access and search for information about how the police and what the police are doing in any case and that this is bad and that it is extremely good that this amendment has been accepted, I must say. In our opinion, he can reduce the influence of the minister on the work of the police, or on politicising the work of the ministry, which I spoke about in the principle debate and I am glad that this amendment has been accepted. I hope that in practice this treatment will be, that it will not, the minister answered me in the principle debate that we want to prevent him from looking for what he's doing, I don't know, traffic police or emergency sector, say, in a situation of some elemental accident. We did not react in this way but to this particular section of the police work on investigations under the Criminal Procedure Act, and to limit the possibility that the minister's report would seek only at the request of the prosecutor, i.e. the court, and it is extremely good that the ministry has accepted this solution and I believe that it will reduce politicisation of police work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46744	Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46745	I would also like to join with the praises expressed by my colleague Djurisic, and in accepting his amendment, which we feel is equally essential and that he should make it possible, will we allow us to see in practice, to depolitise the police, or to reduce the impact of the policy that the interior minister is conducting as a member of the government, or as a member of a party. However, we have given an amendment concerning the duties of police directors and other strategic level managers in the ministry, where they are scheduled to submit six months and a yearly work reports, and not scheduled within what time. It was accepted to be within 15 days and now I'm bringing you back to Article 6 where we said you weren't standing in a member that within three months it would be published. I don't think there really is any reason, especially on some six-month report, to be published after three months. It is something that is bad and I ask you to try to correct it, that if it is 15 days to deliver a report to you from all strategic levels, including a police directorate, let's say there is no longer than 25 days for it to appear in the Assembly, or in the public via the official website of the MUP. I think it's an interest both for you and for the citizens and for citizens to be informed on time about the state of security and information for which they are essentially interested in life. Thank you. So our amendment is usually accepted, but I'm saying, I'm appealing to this part that we unfortunately missed to put as a deadline, and I think you can still intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46746	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46747	Article 15 is unfortunately not accepted. I say unfortunately because in the report on screening for Chapter 24 where justice, freedom and security are found to be necessary in the co-operation of police and security services to limit clearly only the necessary co-operation in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the prescribed rights and duties. From the experience of people working in the police, regardless of what to say, declarative or come, legally declared police independence in its operation, unfortunately police still have segments that depend on the service of security, is not completely independent and that is something that the European Commission has found in its report on Chapter 24. I think we should put assumptions into the law and also make efforts to finally define it and that the police are doing their jobs without having to consult or seek any assistance from the security service, whose job is not to do the jobs they do and the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46748	Thank you. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: "I'm sorry, I've been going all the time since the microphone's on." No, Mr. Sutanovac, but I'd like you to turn it off. I don't have that option. I do, but when you finish your exposure, you need to turn off the microphone so it doesn't happen. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46749	Mr. Becic, it is hard for someone in the hall or in Serbia today to believe that you have no ability to turn off the microphone. If anyone used that possibility here, used and abused it, it's just you. It's funny to you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46750	As you now abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46751	No, you just told a lie, so I'm just correcting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46752	Mr. Sutanovac, it is your duty to turn off the microphone when you complete the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46753	Well, it's your duty to cut my time for two minutes. I mean, you've done it all the time, sometimes two minutes ago, sometimes for a minute, sometimes for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46754	Well, here, I'm more tolerated today, so I'm letting you talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46755	Okay. This is Article 17 of Position 6 that the Government has accepted. I would like to stress that he primarily refers to the security citizens in our society, who at some point are acting according to, say, the laws, protecting the constitutions and laws of the Republic of Serbia and assisting the police, either on their own, or in police work. It can happen to anyone. But in the situation of any criminal proceedings against them, the state of Serbia should provide them with full legal and any other protection that the MUP also has. In this way, Serbian citizens who are witnesses of crimes and who try to prevent them or prevent them cannot be left to the mercy and mercy of those who have committed crimes, and who are probably more influential in our society than those citizens, so they may also be able to influence the court, the prosecution or some other authorities, even against citizens who have prevented the crime, to conduct criminal proceedings. This may sound illogical, but believe me, there are a lot of examples where people who have prevented a crime end up in court as guilty, because they overstepped some powers that they don't normally have to know about. Let me say, all citizens are obliged to know the laws, but it's simply in practice impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46756	Thank you. The 18th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradić. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the Ministers with Associates, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the SDS, the ZZS, submitted an amendment to Article 18, paragraph 1, where we said: "The Criminal Procedure Act" asked to be replaced by the words "the Law governing criminal proceedings". In the light of this amendment, we have given too much reason, which is in line with the Unique Methodological Rules for the Making of Regulations, which was adopted in 2010. However, in light of the failure to accept this amendment, the Government explained that amendments containing the whole name of the Criminal Procedure Act were accepted, thus further differences would arise in the reference norms. However, that argument may be, to say the contrary to these unique methodological rules that exist. We believe that in one longer time this formulation would extend the useful value, to say, of the law, because it does not have to be called the Code of Criminal Procedure, but with this general formulation, the linguistic, or fundamentally, would basically define the laws to which it relates.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46758	Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46759	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46760	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46761	I would just like to point out that this is one of the six amendments to the LSV that have been adopted. Unfortunately, they're all lexic natures and things like that, nothing essential. I don't think it's our job as an MP to lecture on texts, and yet, on the other hand, we are made up of the kind of amendments that are useless amendments. It's just, I think that kind of combing the text should've been done before it got here. We, according to these amendments, will not report to others who are of this kind or similar nature. But I want to point out that out of all six amendments, everyone is referring to these remarks right now. Those who were essential, unfortunately you did not adopt them, and we will discuss them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46762	National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 20th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46763	Thank you. We suggested one rather simple thing, which I thought you'd accept without any consideration. It is that a particular document proposed by the government, or adopted by the government, is defined on the basis of a proposal from the minister. It is said here, in the government's explanation that it does not accept the amendment, because the minister is the only authorised act promoter, missing – acts here, from the work of the MUP, in line with the Government's Rules of Procedure. Now we say here – we will not put it into law because it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure of Government determines. What happens if the Government changes the Rules of Procedure? In that situation, it remains unsaid. I don't see why it was a problem to stand unambiguously to adopt it on the minister's proposal. You are the one who should suggest it. Unless it's defined and changed to the Rules of Procedure, we can come to the very situation you were just talking about, that the Minister of Agriculture is proposing an act, so maybe someone adopts it. This may not be an essential thing, but it's clearly defined and I don't think you have any reason not to accept it. Here we consider the law as a higher legal act than the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are something that the Government can change at every session, and we can only do this law in the situation in which it is in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46764	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46765	Just one sentence. It's also defined by the Government Act. So there is also in the Government Act that norm. The Rules of Procedure are listed here. It was supposed to be stated in an explanation and that the Government Act predicted it. So, we already have a legal code. But it's basically, let me say, the thing that's completely logical. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: You can accept.) He's not in college with any law. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46766	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46767	Article 21, so in the previous article, we talked about criteria for how to choose a representative to refer to, to say, a peacekeeping mission, that is, outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The 21st member I've given defines more precisely not only participation in peacekeeping missions, but also the privileges of a police officer outside our country's borders. You know for a fact that I led the Department of Defense with a number of representatives of the Ministry or an army outside the borders. I think this thing needs to be accepted, because there's a lot of our amendment here that's good legally resolving their status. I don't see any reason why they wouldn't accept it, because police officers get more concrete here, to say exactly what, how they do it, how they work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46768	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. You want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together have submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 22a. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46769	Honored Presidents, Minister Stefanovic, co-workers of the Interior Ministry, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, after Article 22. The draft police law suggests adding Article 22a, which reads: "The Police Secretariat for Vojvodina is an organisational unit within the Police Directorate trained to coordinate police administrations and police stations in the AP Vojvodina area. The headquarters of the Police Department is in Novi Sad. The work of the Police Secretariat for Vojvodina is led by a secretary appointed by the minister at the proposal of the government of the AP Vojvodina." Why did we make such an amendment? The law we are now discussing in Article 22 paragraph 5 states that, in order to carry out police and other affairs, internal organisational units for coordinating the work of police administrations and police stations in areas for which they are educated can also be established in accordance with the characteristics of certain areas. So we keep to it, and it is known that Vojvodina is a specific area, not only because of multilingualism, but also because it borders with countries that are in the EU, that I do not list all the specificities of the AP Vojvodina, so that, in fact, by leading this member, in Article 22, we have made such an amendment. Secondly, this issue of the Vojvodina Police Department has been kind of politicized. Maybe it wasn't about all these specificities, what Vojvodina might have had in years when she had full autonomy and her police, what conditions the police were working on, how the disputes over everything were resolved. That's what we cited for practical reasons. The education of the Vojvodina Police Secretariat does not violate the basic concept of the bill, as such a secretariat would be part of a single Police Directorate... (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: None of it. I ask you, President, that MPs do not receive. I believe it is in the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina, as well as of all Serbian citizens to organise a Police Secretariat for Vojvodina, so that everyone is in a position to strengthen a stable security situation, both in Vojvodina and in the Republic of Serbia. Let me explain right now. With this amendment, we do not want a parallel police force in Vojvodina, but rather a special organisation structure of Serbia's MUP on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which also provides for this position of Article 22. In addition to organisational reasons and reasons related to the specificities of Vojvodina, I particularly think of the multinational structure of the population, multilingualism, which is certainly very much represented in Vojvodina, firstly, it is very important to acknowledge that there are several political reasons. The police secretariat of the interior of the AP Vojvodina already existed and was abolished in 1988. In the years until 1988, Vojvodina had its own police force, but then about two thousand crimes, each of which was clarified and processed. Over 90% of robbery and robbery thefts have been clarified and processed. Cops existed in every local community. Cops were paid between 50% and 70% more than in other parts of the state. Today we know that in villages people are forced to organize village guards. That's terrible, because in villages, municipalities just miss cops. In some municipalities, 30 cops are missing. They don't have gas, they don't have winter tires, they don't have equipment. It's terrible that in the 21st century, citizens can't stand in the way of thefts, these rural thefts. It's just stolen from cattle, sheep. 40 sheep were stolen in one village. I don't know what can happen. Citizens are telling their municipal police departments to respond to that. The police simply don't respond, because they're not equipped or there's not enough of them to react and follow what's happening in the villages. The village guards still, maybe someone doesn't know, exist in the villages of Vojvodina. I don't know what it's like in other parts of the Republic of Serbia, but in Vojvodina, people are forced to organize village guards. I'm using the time of the Parliament Club. That's why we're looking for, in a way, a decentralised public security system, because it turned out, when the police were decentralised, that it was quite different. Another thing I would like to point out is that contact with the Serbian Ministry of Security's MUP with the Regional Security Council. The Regional Security Council is a professional advisory body entered by the province's Simeon, the province's prime minister, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, etc. There are a variety of thoughts about this communication between. If you already think the police should be centralised, but that contact between the MUP and that Regional Security Council has turned out to be out of order. The past minister introduced a rule that once in six months he submitted a report on the security situation in the AP Vojvodina. So he had some contact with the Regional Security Council. You, Minister Stefanovic, last time in the AP Vojvodina Assembly on 27 February 2015, submitted a report for May 2014 on the state of security in the Republic of Serbia, without any statistics. I've been searching the Internet, contacting various people, giving me as much information as is happening in the Republic of Serbia and the AP Vojvodina, how many murders, thefts, small, large muggings. Since I am a member of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, the Commission for the Control and Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, I have seen from juvenile prisons that there are many minors from Vojvodina. It used to be a small number, it was 15. 16%, and now there are over 40% of Vojvodina minors in those institutions. We have no record of what's going on. Why aren't there statistics on that? I've already said that the Regional Security Council is a professional advisory body. Only once was the minister on the assembly committee, which is the other body. It's a body made up of MPs. He was in the Vojvodina Assembly only once and on that committee, when bakeries were being destroyed in the AP Vojvodina. We can't describe this communication and centralization. If you already think it is not good for Vojvodina to have its own police secretariat, then statistics should be improved and statistics should be improved to see what is going on in the security situation in Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, because statistics do not exist. The LSV proposal is to form a Police Secretariat for Vojvodina as a new organisational unit under the Police Directorate to be trained to coordinate the work of police administrations and police stations in the area of the AP Vojvodina. We propose that the head office of the Vojvodina Police Secretariat be in Novi Sad and that the work of the police secretariat for Vojvodina be managed by a secretary appointed by the government's interior minister of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the province government. The Duke should have his own police. We need to know who's responsible for the violence that's going on. It's a lot of crime. We know that, unfortunately, all the great criminals, Sharic, etc. They've been working on the Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46770	I'm sorry you wasted group time. You're not authorized. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46771	I have to say that all the data exists, of course there are, there are statistics. There are reports of the work of the MUP which are publicly available, which contain all this information you requested. As far as the circuit board and the assembly are concerned, I've gone as many times as I've been called. So I can't go when I'm not invited. So the MUP has the obligation to account to the Serbian Parliament and when the Serbian Parliament calls us, or the Assembly Committee, and as far as the province's assembly is concerned, we have no formal legal obligation, but I wanted to show good faith and twice before the board, where we discussed the state of security in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which I think is a good thing and a non-lethal problem to respond whenever they call me, of course in accordance with my time and possibilities. So they just didn't call me again. I don't think it's my fault or my fault, they just didn't call it the M.O.P. Maybe they didn't care, I can't say why. It just wasn't. On the other hand, we've had a situation where you're proposing to form a secretariat for the AP Vojvodina. Thus, they would directly interfere with the organisation's responsibilities of the MUP. The interior ministry independently assesses whether it needs that kind of organisational unit, or not. As for the existence of the police secretariat for Vojvodina, the secretary-in-chief, on your proposal, appointed by the Minister, on a proposal from the government of the province of Vojvodina. We are completely destroying the career system of advancement. So here we have a political representative of the government, who manages the work of the police. Where, is the police's operational independence? Then we could do so at the level of the Republic, that the Director of Police, on a proposal from the Government, puts, on a proposal from the minister, the prime minister. So, the province police are part of the police of Serbia. So we in the territory of the Republic of Serbia have a single police force.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46772	Replica, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46773	No minister said it was controversial, the secretariat would exist, but it would be the police's department. I understand where efficiency is. I think it's been politicized. Don't pretend to be no parallel police, that's one thing. You're saying that statistics can be found on the M.O.P. site, statistics can't be found. You can give me exactly where, but we've been looking, there's no statistics on the Ministry's website. Secondly, you say that the Ministry will determine where and what it will open, work, etc., I think that citizens should still decide, and the citizens of Vojvodina are crying out for them to be more concerned, to be the police who are close to them, as they used to be. So it's the Ministry that only cares, but it doesn't. They're determining the citizens. In that case, the citizens of Vojvodina have already determined that they need more police and a different organisational structure of police in the territory of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46774	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46775	What I'm saying is, it's impossible for a police director to manage something whose choice doesn't interfere at all. The Director of Police doesn't have any role to play in choosing that secretary. Nothing. This man, proposed by the government from these candidates, the minister chooses one person tomorrow, will careerly answer to the director. He knows where his responsibility is. It is proposed by this province government, no matter who makes it. Then what does he have to do with the Director of Police? Nothing. He can tell the Director of the Police - I don't care, I've been proposed by the circuit government, what kind of connections I have. So he can't be replaced by a police director. If you can't replace someone, you don't have any leverage on their work. He doesn't have to fulfill the police director's orders at all. Nothing. Second, where's the career? Who guarantees that this man will be proposed from the ranks of career cops? There's no limit here. The head of the police administration can be the worst cop that the province's government has chosen. Because it does not say here – it chooses it from the ranks, the most deserved, the best, but writes – it is proposed by the province government, and the minister of these candidates chooses one of the three, let's say, which they are proposed to him. So the career advancement system is collapsing. The fact that something was in the past, that's when the challenges were different. The situation was different, not only in Vojvodina, there was a secretary of police in Belgrade. Belgrade had, to say the least, its own police force. In time, it turned out that this system in which every city... So, what about those poorer cities? That we don't have the police here. Police must be unique to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is the police of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens, deployed by police administrations and acting in such a way. Every other organization has not proved to be effective. But that's what I'm asking you to let the Ministry suggest the level of its organization.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46776	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46777	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Although Mr. Minister has already said in principle what he thinks about this issue of the duchy police, and now he's also repeated it on this amendment, simply as someone who was born and who lives in Vojvodina, I have to give my opinion as well. It has been well noted that it is the politicisation of this issue, but the politicisation is now being proposed by the amendment. You know, if you're looking for a legislative, judicial, executive power, your own income, now the duke's police, if several months ago a delegation of the province's administration visits NATO and no report is submitted to either the government or the ministries, if afterwards you get Croatian amendments in the European Parliament talking about special protection of the Vojvodina, then it would be nice to take off the gloves, take off the masks, this is an election year, and this political structure to come up with its clear plan on Vojvodina statehood, the republics, to finally say what they think. This is important for the citizens of Vojvodina, and it is also important for their future coalition partners when they co-operate to know what political agenda they are entering. Enough hiding between personalities, specialities, specificities, you don't need to shed tears for national minorities. We here have a party of the largest national minority who has found its way and knows who and how to cooperate, so that the best interests of ethnic groups can be preserved. That's what I need to think about, and I'm gonna do it one more time just to say that we need honest, ready and well-paid, capable police. Police who will protect both the people and the state and thus guarantee peace, but the police must be unique and absolutely the law of such police in the state of Serbia conducts and rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46778	The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46779	Thank you. I will repeat as well as in the discussion in the principle that the SPS strongly opposes the idea of the creation of the duchy police, first of all on the basis of the argument given by the LSV. I think the explanations on why they shouldn't be accepted are too high because the proposal itself is political. The specialities that exist in Vojvodina don't seem to be anything more specific than any other part of the country, so they're more specific than any other part of the country, above all in the area of security. So it's about maintaining public order and peace. There is public order and peace throughout the Republic of Serbia that deals with police throughout Serbia, then borders with Croatia, Hungary and Romania. There are police administrations in Serbia bordering other countries such as Bulgaria, Macedonia, then BiH, etc. As for decentralisation, there are several police administrations in Vojvodina, the Sremska Mitrovica, Sombor, Subotica, Novi Sad, Kikinda, Pancheva. I don't know if I forgot any... (Hope Lazic, from place: Seven. Seven. So I don't see a request for decentralisation here either, and moreover, I think there's a request here for centralization and the setting of secretaries, secretariats in one political way that will implement the policy that President Nenad Canak had before. As I said in principle, by putting a ramp on a gazelle, and we will not be surprised if we find the border police again at these ramps after the introduction and acceptance of such an amendment. So the SPS is determinedly opposed to the idea of creating a duchy police force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46780	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46781	I think we've brought the bile out here about things that can be more simple to explain. A colleague who spoke before me said the amendment was submitted politically. I really don't know how else to submit amendments to parliament if not politically. Politically motivated, all these amendments are politically motivated, not controversial. However, people, unlike NATO, who has a clear standard of functioning around the world, have no standard of police work in the world in the way you think, or who you're talking to. So we have a situation that, if I'm not mistaken, the interior minister's advisor from Great Britain. In Great Britain, local self-government has a direct impact on the selection of local police chiefs. Direct interference. So they're choosing the local police chief, but that's not where it goes from assuming that the local self-government chief is usually someone who steals, so that future police officer, the police chief, is protecting him. I completely agree that Serbia is not ready at this time to have separate secretaries to be elected at the bar level. I don't think that's good right now, but I also think that the citizens of Vojvodina have the right to express their desire to treat local self-government and the AP Vojvodina Assembly in a better way. We have given an amendment which has been accepted that police administrations have a duty and obligation to submit information and reports to local self-governments, and our goal is to have local self-governments review reports, or information, so that they can also launch a public procedure to replace a particular police station chief, if or police administrations, unless he does the job in a good way. So, at this point, I think that Serbia is not only on Vojvodina territory, I don't think Serbia is ready even for a secretariat in some other cities, and it's not a topic. Let's talk about the arguments, there's no need to bring the bile in. I don't think it's such a bad idea, because it works both in the United States and Britain and in large parts of the countries across Europe. So let's start from all of us having the same, honorable and good intentions towards the citizens of Serbia and that we want to help do things the better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46782	The word has Minister Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46783	In an analogy of such proposals, we could expect you to have the next proposal to be the General Staff for Vojvodina and the Chief of Staff of the Vojvodina, so that we have a part of the army that would be there, but that would respond to the proposal of the Vojvodina Government and the Secretary of Defence, the Secretary of Defense who would be responsible, who would be elected by the defence minister, and to the proposal of the Vojvodina Government. So, we'd come up with a complete break-up of the idea of the state and the idea of uniting all those security forces that we need to cooperate with each other. We'd introduce as many of these officials and fact-finding people as possible from its optimal functioning. I have people on my team of different profiles, people I believe can help the ministry work better, bring better results, and I'm really proud of each of these advisors and associates who help the ministry work better, among other things, to say the military generals I took as General Zivkovic who helps reorganize special units. So, people who have fought from Kosovo, so to speak to other places, patriots of honest and decent people, Mr Watlkins, who have participated in reforms both in the MUP and in the military and in the last many years. So, people who have contributed in different ways in all governments so far, and I think that all the ministers who hired them or worked on projects in those ministries were proud of what they did, because they didn't mention them before, so I guess that's okay. In any case, I think the idea of this secretariat is unacceptable for many reasons, first of all and professional reasons for career progress, we will not have career progress in Serbia if we set up anywhere in this way, because then the mayor of Belgrade will ask that he propose a secretary for the interior of Belgrade, and that he is elected by the minister and that we will go to regional representation, which is not good at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46784	Time. Thank you. The word is Vanja Vukic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46785	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46786	Tell me exactly who, do I know?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46787	My colleagues to Dragan Sutanovac. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Why? You said a colleague before me said...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46788	It's not. He was quoting Krlic, as far as I know. He said, politically motivated. That's what Krlić said, and I can give you the amendment and you don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46789	Okay. I'm sorry. Again, I don't know why my colleague Sutanovac found himself named today as last time because I didn't mention Mr. Sutanovac, but okay. So I said this was politically motivated. It's just policy enforcement here. It is not about the profession, and it is not about proposing this amendment to reduce crime, it is about implementing the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina's policy to build a ramp on Gazela. So, the SPS is against it. On the other hand, this way and model of formation and police organisation through the secretariats was abandoned in the 1990s. It doesn't exist at all. It's a different form of organization. The interior ministry through the secretariats when the body was not called the MUP, but the Interior Secretariat.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46790	Replica, Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46791	I just want to ask, Minister, the police department in Novi Sad didn't have six years of chief. You're talking about a career, etc. Isn't there adequate footage in Novi Sad that we don't have a chief for six years? That's one thing. Secondly, to come from Vračar, bring a piece from Vrakar, who needs a "GPS" to deploy police officers across the streets, etc., to manage it because it does not live on the territory of the AP Vojvodina or in Novi Sad. Why is the measure from Belgrade with Vracar more appropriate to be chief of police, the Police Administration in Novi Sad than someone who is from Vojvodina or who is from Novi Sad? I don't know, tell me, what are the criteria for that? I can't make peace with the fact that after that statement, I don't need to shed tears for the national minorities that my colleague told me -- I'm not going to mention his name. He said from point to point so - no tears should be shed for national minorities. We have here in the Assembly a national minority who, of course, is not further said to support the government of RS, prime ministers etc. What is this statement that there should be no tears for national minorities in RS that here, my national minority has celebrated 265 years this year since it was on these grounds. What kind of statement is that? Mr. President, may I say? Ambassador Krlić said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46792	Olena Papuga said – Mirko Krlić. First Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46793	First of all, back to what, this doesn't matter, this solution has nothing to do with national minorities, this solution has nothing to do with it. We have to build a police force that doesn't exactly distinguish people and what you said about bringing in a man from Vrakar shows that you don't understand the essence of police functioning. It bothers you that a man from another part of our country comes to one part of his country for service. He's coming because of the need for service. Directors and people and police estimate that this man, based on the results he has achieved in his career and here the MPs of one opposition party praised his choice, not only here but also on the assembly board, I kept it, because he was acting as police station chief at Vrakar, worked very well and did a very good result and people said – an excellent expert, a professional. He's been with the police for 30 years. We brought in a man who knows his job, who's a career cop and who fixed the situation in Novi Sad. There was a reduction in significant crime compared to what he found when he arrived. Why hasn't there been a chief for six years? I really don't know. I'm a minister for a little over a year and a half. But believe me, the situation is not simple in complex conditions. Many people then wondered, decided many things. It was very complicated and complex to make a good solution. At this point, we are passing a law that will allow these very principles of career advancement, I hope, as we have found a quality man, to be shown, in Nis, who is running a police administration now, someone from Nis, that we will also find a lot of good people in every part of our country, but that does not mean when the police officer comes from another city or another part of Serbia that this man cannot do a good job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46794	Thank you. Time. Mirko Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46795	I'm sorry if there's been any kind of misunderstanding, but the essence of what I've said is that there's no need to hide between the personality and the specificity of Vojvodina, which is what you're talking about and what you're talking about in the amendment, and the ethnic composition that matters to you, and that's one of the reasons why there should be duchy police. I said you shouldn't shed tears over the fate of national minorities, they know very well how to politically profile themselves. Serbia is a country of democracy, a democratic constitution and order, and there is no problem for the national minority. I'm sorry to hear that from a lady, whom I think is a very valuable and saving MP, there's a policy like this. I think if their boss made it clear what kind of policy he advocates and went to the next election with that policy, maybe you wouldn't be a member of that party yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46796	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46797	It's a replica on a colleague. It's only short, Mr. Minister, that the Chief of Staff is not appointed by the Secretary of Defense. I don't know how you don't know that. So, people, we're talking here in a way that we're starting to declare something negative without analyzing all aspects of what we're looking for. I fully understand that the duchy police as such should not exist. In the Serbian police system, each part of Serbia has its specificities and should have a certain impact on the so-called local self-government. ‘Community polising’. So we're even putting it in as community police. We put it in this law - the police in the community. Well, it can't be declarative. If we say - the police in the community, it means that the community, which can be smaller or larger, has a certain impact on the security policy in the area where the community is based. That's, as far as I understand, the basics. Any other political idea that exists as such is also legitimate, public and of course everyone here proposes amendments based on politics. After all, there's politics here. I remind you, Mr. Minister, you were just saying that Watkins is your advisor. Right in Great Britain, police are fragmented completely and local self-government chooses the chief of police. What's interesting is, here's a colleague to say, right now the chief of police at the bar is being chosen from the ranks of police officers who are not from that city, and they meet the career conditions to be bosses. I've been to a lot of different educations on many occasions. So, I also support that police officers, in order to have career progress, should move across Serbia, but I also think, Mr. Minister, that you must then provide them with the conditions that exist in the military. So, you have to provide them with conditions for increased housing costs, you have to provide them with financial conditions, so you can move them in the way they're currently being done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46798	Ambassador, you've abused the replica, you've suddenly begun to speak to the minister. I'll give the minister an answer and I won't take two minutes for you this time, but next time I'll have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46799	But we talk about the same thing all the time. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46800	Because you're misusing the replicas institute, you're starting to replicate all over the room. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46801	So, first of all, we can't compare different systems of different states, because they exist and in different ways have other services, like Britain has, let's say, a National Crime Agency that deals with the fight against certain crime, has certain other police structures and isn't organised in the way it is in our country. After all, it's much bigger than our country. We were more focused on the Swedish model of police, which, for example, was accepted in Scotland. This model has been under review for years and we're working on using this model. For example, in Sweden, they have come to work on the accumulation of police units, or police administrations, and today Sweden has one police administration for the entire territory of Sweden. So they opted for this model because they think that model is best for them and against the different risks they have and everything else. We're considering one essential thing here. Of course, through local security councils, citizens and local self-government will have a certain impact and have the opportunity to say what is not good in their territories and to influence the security talks in their local self-government, but what is important is that the command in police units is based on the principles of career progress, operational police independence and that it is based on a system that for the whole territory of Serbia we have a single police force doing its job for all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46802	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46803	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few sentences. First of all, we agree completely that the duchy police as such should not exist as proposed by the LSV amendment colleague. We agree fully with the minister when he says the police must and should be unique in the territory of all Serbia. Of course, all amendments are politically motivated, simply everyone through the amendments, through a discussion in parliament trying to promote some of their political views and that's legitimate, but here we have one vision, I would say, in some ways, the attempts and abuses of citizens living in northern Serbia, specifically in Vojvodina. Here the question arises whether such an amendment is in line with the competences and organisational structure of the MUP? Is such a proposal for an amendment in line with the responsibilities of the particularly provincial government? So here we definitely have an attempt to create, no matter how many people say it's not the goal, but here we definitely have an attempt to create some parallel structures and it's absolutely unacceptable for us. But, on the other hand, it is unique to colleagues and colleagues who have submitted such an amendment. We are used to having special concerns about our citizens living in the northern part of Vojvodina, and then imposing questions about both jurisdiction and property and money. A few days ago when we talked about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, we also had one attempt at political manipulation and abuse of honest Serbian farmers living from their work, saying that through this law someone would kidnap the country to Serbian farmers, that they would not be able to live on, that someone wanted to sell agricultural land to foreigners, which, of course, is not true. The government only wanted to establish order when it comes to land policy. What does that have to do with the amendment? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46804	Please don't throw it away, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46805	You have the opportunity to report, and I am trying to make a parallel between the need to talk about the citizens of Vojvodina, or citizens living in northern Serbia, right before the province's elections, and you have been an integral part of the province's government all along, and you have been the parliamentary majority in the Republic for a very long time. But in short, we feel that this amendment should not be accepted, that it is destructive and certainly not leading to development, is not intended for development. Everything that has been said here and referred to as suggestions and objections to a concrete law, so just by adopting this legislative proposal that we're having today on amendments wants to provide a system of career advancement, it wants to be secured and strengthened the work of police officers in the community, it wants to be provided and strengthened the internal control sector that needs to be guaranteed that no one can and will not embarrass the uniform. So, we, and with this I want to conclude, we expect from this legislative proposal that the police will first of all get an effective system, that they will get better conditions, a framework for work, and that citizens, which is very important, will get the police who will work in their best interest, the police in which there will be no crime and corruption, and that in addition to an efficient system, we will get one more open and transparent police work, which wants to be closer to the citizens, closer to the community. In fact, the point is that citizens trust the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46806	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46807	I thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, as the Head of the Parliamentary Group said, we are truly unconditionally in the view that this amendment is simply unacceptable, for several reasons. The first reason is legal, and it suggests that this amendment violates one concept of security system in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, something that has been set up through the legal concept of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina is being violated. This amendment shifts the entire focus of the security system to national minorities, which is a very sensitive and very dangerous issue. Does this mean that we create a police force or a security system exclusively for national minorities? And is that the only reason why there should be a secretary of police? Does this mean that the pandan of that police secretariat or the correlation, however, should be another police secretariat for the Rasca area? Or for other areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Legally, such an approach is absolutely unacceptable and such a concept, given that the security system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is uniquely arranged and that the same system of security and protection against any kind of threat applies to all citizens and hence national minorities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, both from this legal and factual aspect, we believe that the introduction of any police secretariat would imply a violation of something that involves not only what is said here – jurisdiction, but also one concept that is set up, both from the point of view of the law and from the point of view of the security measures applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We cannot bring a security system into the dimension of parallelism, the creation of police formations or organisations that differ from what means the organisation structure of police in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as a state. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46808	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Mr Dejan Capo, submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46809	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, we have given the amendment to article 23, which regulates the organisation of the police. We have put the amendment to the first position, which says: "Organization units at the headquarters of the police directorate, the Police Administration for the City of Belgrade and the Police Administration are educated so that they are functionally and functionally connected with the relevant organisational units and businesses in a way that related police affairs from their work are carried out at the central, regional and local level. We have just intervened with the amendment in this position 1, where instead of the proposed term "central and regional level" it says "at the level of the republic and the level of administrative districts". Why? Namely, the administrative division of Serbia knows not the regions, but the administrative districts, which are not the form of local self-government, nor part of the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia, but the way in which state administration is performed. In any case, the regions in Serbia appear only as statistical or geographical, and neither of them express the essence of the idea contained in Article 23. The proposal for this law, so we believe that it is more precise to use this term given in the amendment, i.e. that, instead of ‘central and regional level’, the term is ‘at the level of the Republic and the level of the administrative districts’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46810	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46811	This member is very interesting, for reasons where we have defined that there is one special unit and that there are special units within the police force, it is obvious here that there is a need for a minister to exercise direct interference or control exclusively over one special unit, and that is Gendarmeria. There is no unknown matter in the Ministry of the Interior, nor among the gendarmes, that there is no synergy, positive energy between the Ministry of Interior and the Gendarmeria leadership. It is not unknown that two processes are currently being conducted against the members of the Gendarmeria, one that everyone knows is more than clearly political and is asking a question - which is why a special anti-terrorist unit is being placed in a different position, and Gendarmeria is being placed in a special position. What is it that he singles out to Gendarmes in relation to the C.I.A.? Maybe it's that they're taking part in the fight against riots at sports events, maybe they're taking part in the repression of riots at other gatherings that are held in public spaces, but it's more than obvious that there's a need, I'm free to say, and some animosity towards people who work in Gandarmeria and who need to get involved now, in a way that, say, people at the CIA don't put themselves in. Which is why, Mr. Minister, I can only assume, and I'm sure everyone in the police understands that. However, our amendment is such that it requires that these things are even and that there are the same conditions for the work and treatment of all people working at the Ministry of the Interior, or the police, and that the chain of command is not interrupted in the way you've foreseen here, because in this way it brings the Gendarmere into a situation where public order and peace can be violated without them being able to respond because they are waiting for certain consents which, according to what is written, need to be reached by the minister. So, regardless of the animosities you have towards the gendarmes, which are more than clear, I think you should accept this thing as an amendment and change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46812	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the student masters of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade, which is currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome the guests. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46813	Of course, in the words of Mr. Shutanovec, there is not a shred of truth. So no animosities exist. In best relations, the Ministry works with all organisational units, as well as with Gendarmeria. After all, I don't remember anyone more than I mentioned these people and praised for what they did in the floods. Unlike many who served as ministers, I spent time with these people when it was necessary and when it was difficult. I didn't go to take pictures with them, some comfortable and beautiful places, where I came 20 minutes early, and then we're going to lunch. No, I was with them when it was necessary for the citizens of Serbia, and when it was necessary to support them, each species, and I was with them and in boats, in water, in different places, to support them and the citizens of this country. After all, receiving what exists in Gandarmeria, new equipment, new armored vehicles, better protection, their commander is now the head of the Republic Staff in southern Serbia, which co-ordinates all security services, including the Army, commander Dragovic, and this shows what respect we have for Zendarmeria. That man runs military units at headquarters, security-informative agencies and police, and that has never been the case before. At a joint joint tactical exercise, which we had outside, at several locations in Belgrade a few months ago, the commander of the headquarters came from Gendarmeria, which united the work of all these people. On several occasions, we have shown that this unit is being taken seriously. It was created, above all, to protect the area of the land security zone, but, of course, it also suppresses riots in terms of public order and peace in a greater extent, as well as all other most complex tasks, from diving units that work on rivers in the most difficult conditions, to people who participate in various international operations. So, the greatest respect for this and all the other units that, in no way, have been brought into a subordinate position. On the contrary, their incomes have not been reduced for a dollar. These people do their job in a serious and complex way, and I'm sorry that it's used here in an incorrect way, but I'll always react when it's mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46814	Do you want a replica? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46815	I don't know what you think, Mr. Minister, their receipts aren't cut? And I don't know how you think their journals aren't cut? Well, today when two gendarmes come to Belgrade, they can buy together a pack of cigarettes. It's true that you've always been on the same line, but often on the opposite side. I'll remind you - one of the gendarmes is tried for serious bodily injuries, in a situation where you were one of the organizers of a violent gathering, which resulted in fatal consequences. The prosecutor doesn't treat the organisers of the rally, but he treats the gendarmes. You even told the Security Committee that the killer Panic is being tried. As far as I know, the late Panic died in the hospital, resulting from severe bodily injuries caused by violent demonstrations that occurred in 2008. And then you were on the same line with the gendarmes, but on the opposite side. We'll agree it's true. So, they're not the theme of the gendarmes, the theme is that the gendarmes, as well as the C.I.A., as well as the other special units, are placed in the same way as the chain of command, and not that they are specifically singled out. What's special about being singled out? Otherwise, you know, with these people, there were a lot of us in the snow, and in the water, and in the problems. They had bigger salaries and bigger diaries, more perks, they were formed at another time, but not just because of the land's safety zone, so not just because of that. So, what you say I respect if you were with them when necessary, but at least give people back their journals if you can't do anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46816	Right to replication, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46817	Mr. Chairman, I am shocked by the attempt by a MP to reciprocate Milan Panic's death. I am truly shocked as a man that someone who was killed during their regime, during that regime when a man was killed on the street, in the protests of political nature here is spoken in the harshest, worst way possible. I'm honestly shocked as a man. I did not expect a day to come in the National Assembly for someone to try to reciprocate the death of a man in this way. I honestly didn't believe it would ever happen. Anyway, I think it's totally horrible and scary. The man is dead, never mentioned, nor tried to investigate his death, there are no words to justify whether he was shot to death or kicked to the point where he had to go to the hospital and die there. Maybe there's a legal difference, a moral zero. That man was killed because he thought otherwise. If we have come to some MPs justify killings because of a different opinion or trying to relativate them, we are in serious trouble as a society. I'm shocked that these words are spoken today in the National Assembly, I'm really shocked, but I'm letting the people appreciate and judge. There is no man who can be killed because of a different opinion. Thank God something like this didn't happen on the streets of Serbia today, and unfortunately it happened. I'm really shocked.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46818	You have no right. You want the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46819	And I'm shocked that the Home Secretary is equating murder with severe bodily injuries resulting from which...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46820	By amendment, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46821	I don't understand why you didn't stop the minister from speaking out of the amendment, and a colleague just now...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46822	Because he had the right to the replica you gave him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46823	No, I don't use the right to replicate, I use the time I have as...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46824	You and I don't seem to understand each other. So you were the first to replicate the minister and mention one tragic event.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46826	The minister's replicated you. Why are you looking now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46827	Yes, the minister replicated me in a way that he misread me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46828	From what I understand, he interpreted you perfectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46829	No, no, you got it wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46830	Here's your amendment if you want, if you don't want to, don't waste your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46831	So, Mr. Arsic, don't do that. I mean, we've been doing it right all day. So, I'm here accused of supporting murder, which is a complete lie and abuse of speakers. I'm just asking why the speaker doesn't answer as well as the organizer of that crime, were you an organizer? ... Why did you shut me out? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46832	Because you got the word after the amendment. I ask fellow MPs not to receive. Anyone else want a word by amendment? The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46833	In Article 23, which speaks of the engagement of the gendarmes, helicopter units and the C.E.S., point 6 mentions the word "in the maximum capacity of their engagement". We believe that it is an excess, and two words, so "maximum capacity" and that they should be deleted from this text, because the engagement of one or two units leads to a number of people about a thousand, about 400 per unit, and I don't know what action would be needed to engage so many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46834	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46835	When the capacity of the police, especially all the units that work shifts, are engaged, and when they say "maximum capacity", which is available to these units, but even if all the members of those teams are accounted for, because at any time you have one large number, I will not say how many, who are engaged in the land zone of security, with a little increase in the number of these people, you are coming to the engagement of that number of members. Second, in any event of a terrorist attack, we're not going to pet them. You don't think we're gonna send ten people to fight them, we're gonna send in as many people as we can to solve this situation and never think about trying anything like that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46836	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46837	Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests and guests who observe the course of this session from the gallery, respected students and students of the Faculty of Political Sciences BU, distinguished colleague Orlovic, respected guests from the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, prepared two remarks on our amendment to Article 23. The first note concerns an emergency activity plan when it is due to be performed by the C.I.A., the helicopter unit and the gendarmes. It seemed to us, Minister Stefanovic, that there was no need for a plan of action to be subsequently delivered, since it is the basis for an ex post assessment of the legality and implementation of the task. That's one note. Another note, gentlemen, precisely from a number of guests watching this session from the gallery, came another proposal, that it might be in this bill to be singled out as a special member, the jurisdiction of the CIA and the jurisdiction of a special unit called the gendarme. Minister Stefanovic, I am interested in what you think, would it be good because of the accuracy of compliance with other laws, because here everything should be perfectly clear, would it be good to single out one special member, to list one, two, three, four, five, six, seven responsibilities of the CJ, as proposed by colleagues from the Belgrade Centre for Security Policy, and that we have another member in five points, very precise about what the powers of the gendarmes are. We, Minister Stefanovic, have made the proposal a good one. If you have an argument that it's not good, we'd be glad to hear that kind of argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46838	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46839	All members of the MUP work in a unique system under a unique legal framework and a unique methodology. The fact that some units are more or less specialised in certain special things is the matter of their special specialization, training and everything else. However, why should we take away the possibility that any police unit, in accordance with the law, should deal with any phenomenon for whose engagement, solving the situation is necessary? Does that mean, if we don't predict that the C.I.A. is dealing with an emergency situation, we can't use it when the flood comes? We're just about to say how unique the police are. All that police jurisdiction is in accordance with the law can perform any police unit, and the assessment is by the director and police officers, can this particular unit best respond to the challenges, and can this particular police be able to respond in the best possible way to address the situation? Of course, there is a financial aspect that people sometimes forget, because hiring higher-ranking units, which are more paid, which use more expensive equipment, more vehicles, spend more fuel, thus increasing the cost of the MUP, and therefore the minister has a role to play in approving certain police activities so that we can see whether the budget will be able to withstand it or not. When we get to the point where we spend all the money, then it's not worth anything that those units are willing to pay when they can't pay for fuel, and we can't be irresponsible to the citizens and use it all the time, to say, to whom it comes to, because someone might, but what your question is, I think it's precisely the need that every unit can be engaged to solve any situation at the discretion of the police, that it's a good basis why we don't specifically define them what their powers are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46840	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46841	In Article 24(3), we believe that there is a need to add the addition to ‘and decide’. It means that it participates and decides in the development of a human resources management plan, as well as in setting up training programmes and training in co-operation with the organisational unit responsible for human resources management. We think this is absolutely in favour of the police and their work and the law itself, because it is more about deciding the Police Directorate and making it impossible for other institutions to interfere outside the police to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46842	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46843	If the draft law on police was to pass police reform and general social system in Serbia, this member of the law had to change. This is in fact an indication that you have lost, or missed the chance to take the chance to do a reform. I remind you, police are currently issuing a series of documents that one good part of them doesn't have to betray the police and we've given the amendment just to issue certain personal documents in local self-government organisations, therefore, in municipalities. The explanation we have received that this amendment is not accepted, says this – the government does not accept the amendment because the solution proposed in the amendment requires changes in the system character, i.e. and other laws, as well as additional financial and other means of training other bodies to carry out jobs, etc. etc. Mr. Minister, I just think that you should have made an effort to make these systemic changes in favour of all citizens of Serbia who today feel a dose of unpleasantness when they go to the police to extract a document, such as a traffic permit. You know for a fact that there are people in the police who are on the other side of the law, who are being arrested, who are being taken away, who are walking around in uniform. Not everyone likes Serbian citizens that, and this practice, if you have already called on Sweden or Scotland, I am sure that this practice does not exist either in Sweden or in Scotland or in Great Britain, where it is a consultant. So this is an indication that you do not actually have the reform capacity for what is necessary for the citizens of Serbia, but also for the police. It's a complete lie to require a certain amount of funding. It's completely untrue. It would've just saved up. Save who? Well, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, to whom everyone, much simpler and closer would be to extracting personal documents than it is now. It would reduce red tape in the police, you would be able to increase the number of uniform police, special or special units, criminal police, and you would be relieved of a part of the job, which, if you're already talking about the Swedish model, the Scottish model, or I don't know what models, definitely exists. I'm considering documents such as passports, which are internationally recognised or I.D., which are also internationally recognised and necessary because of the journey to the region, but we believe that you had to, because no matter what you say you are a year and a half, it will be almost two years, only the interior minister, I'm sorry, that's half the term in which you have prepared a law where 104 amendments are accepted, and amendments that are fundamentally important are not accepted. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: It is not true. ) I didn't understand you, dear colleague, someone threw it away, and no fundamental amendments are accepted that reform our society and allow Serbian citizens to be served by the police, not by the police. I'm sorry you didn't do that. I'm sure the representatives who did this Bill from the Ministry of the Interior fully understand what I'm talking about, but what you don't have is the capacity and unfortunately is the Minister of Local Self-Government, Mrs. Korry Udovicki, the one who needs to do it and you won't tell us that that woman can't do it, because she's talking about introducing paying classes in the state administration, and she can't do it for four years now, let her rephrase it from the Ministry of Defense, we did it in 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46844	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46845	Thank you. I'm using the Democratic Party's parliamentary group time. In support of the amendment amending the point set out in the basic draft law, it is working on resolving citizens' status issues and issuing public documents from its work, except driving and traffic permits. Driving and traffic permits will be given to local self-government. Whether this year or next year with the same minister or other, it is only a matter of time, but it is simply part of European changes in documents and much more natural for driving and traffic permits, to do so by local self-government and is closer to citizens. We are fully aware that any change in this species comes first upon misunderstanding. I can illustrate what it looked like when we decided not to have the army at the border. Any astonishment, how can the army not be at the border? So the army shouldn't be on the border, the police should work. This is a much smaller shock for many of us who do not know enough about how it is done in Europe, but it is good first for the Ministry of the Interior, it is good for members of the Ministry of the Interior, it is good for citizens and it is good for us to give local self-government what it can really do, which is to issue driving and traffic permits. In the next debate on changes and additions, the government itself, any one, will propose it, because it is inevitable to happen. Our proposal is only, Mr. Sutanovac, to save time and to decide right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46846	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46847	The state also made a decision, which was current yesterday, on the one-stop shop system, therefore, uniquely at the place for issuing various administrative beliefs, decisions, certificates, permits and all. In any case, the idea is to send it to a competent state authority that would be responsible and that a citizen in one place finishes everything that is his job. What is our problem, which is that different levels of state administration, from local self-government to different ministries and other forms of state administration, are not equally ready to move on to this system and in terms of the databases they store, process and, of course, in a different technical, technological way to be prepared for this kind of work. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, believe me, I'd very much like to be relieved of our duties and our jobs. Absolutely unnecessary for the Home Office's work. Of course, if the entire administration of administrative affairs, which works in the Ministry of the Interior, were to invent, for example, local self-government and thus reduce the number of employees in the Ministry of the Interior. We wouldn't cut the number of government employees, these people would continue to receive salaries. Therefore, their salaries would only go to the authority of another state authority, and they would leave the MUP, and new money would be needed for new employees of the MUP. So, by doing so, we are not increasing the possibility that we can now make a decision and increase the systematization by 10, 20, 30,000 jobs in the Police Directorate. We don't have that kind of obstacle. The state only decides on the number of police officers. The question arises – what is what you can pay? Because then when it takes every man, so for the first time in many years, we've secured a new uniform, so we've first trained a number of armored vehicles, so we've first started getting new patrol vehicles. So it's all something that's going on, but it requires money.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46848	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46849	Thank you. The best way to prepare them is to adopt a amendment like this. The best way to really prove to the public in municipalities and cities that you are ready to say – here I am doing jobs for which no one has prepared me, let's do local self-government, do what nature should do. To illustrate how difficult this is going and how, not good for the minister to postpone, I will remind you of the famous decisions that issuing the birth certificate had to be renewed every six months. It didn't say anything, but it got rid of it, and it was harassed a lot of people so far that we passed the law that when you were born, I mean, you were born, you don't have to be checked every six months. It's a joint job. This isn't about the government or the opposition. This is really our effort to support you in accepting this amendment and making an incredibly good effect on all those local self-governments that might tell you – no, we're not prepared. They'll never be prepared, it's a natural change, no one's prepared enough for change, and that's why it's always necessary for friendly pressures to change really mildly, and people will know that they appreciate it, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46850	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46851	Ladies and gentlemen, I would disagree that we will never be prepared, because first of all, this law introduces a series of institutes that we have never had before. I would say that the whole law is essentially reforming and going towards rationalising the police administration, i.e. the MUP, and that, after this law, a lot of work will be done for the MUP itself and the police themselves. So, what's designed to be done is to separate the affairs of state officials, police jobs, to do new systematicization, to rationalise all services and all institutions within the Ministry. So I'm going to be there for a lot of changes, a lot of jobs, and I wouldn't say I can do all that overnight. I agree with you that it is likely that the moment will come for the driver's papers and traffic documents to be issued to local self-government someday, but still, have little understanding of the Ministry. Since 2006, almost nothing has been done on this plan, on the plan of reorganisation, on the reform of the MUP. This ministry has very bravely entered all these changes ahead of us. There is no need to remind myself that a system of career advancement should also be designed and implemented in practice, strengthening all services of the Ministry. It takes time, and I don't doubt that after these changes that follow, after this law, it will come to order, but it's too much of a start, I'm afraid that we'd come to a situation where everything that's designed not to be implemented in an unquality way, it seems to me that one step is also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46852	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46853	Thank you. I'm extremely glad you accepted this amendment. For what reason? I've explained this amendment since we talked in principle, that we're going to give this amendment and I said I don't see what the local police station or police department has to do with local self-government. Then your colleagues sitting next to you, I think he was V.D. Director Mr. Rebic, gave Article 223, which obliges local self-government to consider the report, and there is no obligation under the law for the MUP, i.e. competent police administrations or police stations to submit a report. You'll agree that it was totally nonsensical. But I'm very interested in how much energy you've read that way and insisted that I'm wrong. I'm glad you accepted that you were wrong to accept this amendment. I think this is probably the beginning of some kind of decentralisation of the police of Serbia, which will happen as will change the issue of personal documents in favour of citizens above all. As much as we resist modernization, modernization is coming, so will we use it in time while we are in a position to change or someone else will come to do it, make sure the sooner we do it, the better the citizens will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46854	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46855	It's just, there's one difference. Some of them had a chance to change and didn't do anything for those citizens. These governments could make decisions, the majority of parliaments could oblige the ministries to act that way, that they accept it and did not. Then they were fine. So the message to the citizens was – we are not interested in what you are waiting for in front of the counter, keep waiting. The government shows a desire to improve this, to decentralisation the decision, to try to ensure better interaction between citizens and police. Some have had a chance, they haven't done it, some have a chance and they work. In any case, any good amendment will be accepted. I don't have vanity in that sense, nor do I think it's necessary in this business. It is important for us here to bring something that is good for the citizens of Serbia, whoever suggested it, whether it was some kind of NGO, whether the opposition, whether the government, anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46856	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46857	In part, I can agree with that and when you say -- some of them had a chance, so they didn't, you just talked about how General Zivkovic, who was a general at some point in my time at the Ministry of Defense, was doing a major reform. But you, as interior minister, should have enough courage and courage to say -- Minister Ivica Dacic, who was before me a minister for six years, didn't do it. You're not doing the reform because the government is doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46858	By amendment, fellow Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46859	Of course. So we're not here today in front of the government. You're doing reform. Use your chance to miss a chance at certain parts of the law. But you do. And before you in that position was Minister Ivica Dacic. What he didn't do, come on, show some courage, so say, Minister Dacic didn't do it. Don't talk -- some, some, some, well, of course, then people think it has something to do with DS, and it has absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46860	The word has a minister, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46861	I don't know what it was like, I wasn't in that government. What I do know is that I have government support. So my government colleagues support the reforms implemented by the MUP. I have the support of the prime minister who requires this kind of reform, which requires reforms in other areas of our country, in the areas of society. So we have a prime minister who does his job. That's the difference in those governments. Well, they're not ministers of solo players. When I think that something, and my colleagues, everything that they don't say is bad, someone will honor them tomorrow and they'll say, you were the government, you were sitting in those benches, you didn't say anything, you didn't criticise it, then you didn't mind. I haven't heard any public request for police reform. And then, those who kept quiet about it, today they don't have much right to look back at that period and say, we had the best intention, but he didn't want Ivica Dacic. It was a government where most of them had DS. Ivica Dacic had his responsibility as interior minister at the time. Neither he can escape that responsibility nor those who have committed to the government in the DS ranks, but cannot a majority partner. It would be like if the SNS said -- we didn't run that ministry, we didn't have a responsibility. Of course we have a responsibility, as the biggest government party, as someone who bears responsibility, we have responsibility for the work of others. Everything that's bad will always be attributed to us. So what this government's policy is now is that we look at everything from the position of the reform course, we try to find an optimal solution, and we do that. Of course, if all the solutions will be possible and if they can all be made in one week, I'm absolutely sure it's impossible. But what's good is that you see from this law that everything is much better than it was. And, I remind you, this law was passed in 2005 and was not passed by Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46862	Time, Mr. Minister. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: "According to the amendment." Hold on, Mr. Sutanovac. The first word has a National MP, Vanja Vukic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46863	Thank you. I must respond to the mention of SPS President Ivica Dacic and say that he was the only bright spot, and the SPS, in the government since 2008-2012, that he was the best minister in the government. If Mr Sutanovac does not believe, I will prove to him by research conducted by the OSCE, so the client was the OSCE, for the needs of the MUP, where it is said to be the first to trust institutions, by Serbian citizens, the church, and the second, for the first time in history, police. She's being followed by the army, then the M.O.P. The Department of Defense is somewhere at the bottom. I would like to congratulate Mr Sutanovac for his success, as the first minister in Serbia's history, to undermine the military's reputation, as the army is traditionally an institution of Serbia's greatest trust, except in the period since the modern Serbian state existed, except in the period from 2008 to 2012. In addition, I will also remind you of the visa liberalisation for which Mr. Ivica Dacic is solely responsible. So Ivica Dacic is a minister whose time visas for travel to EU countries were lifted. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46864	The word has been made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46865	This is a replica now. I've been mentioned twice by name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46866	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46867	If you'll excuse me, two replicas, and I'll share them for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46868	I can't do two, only one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46869	So, Mr. Stefanovic, the Honorable Minister, you told us just before that Prime Minister Dacic did not give support to Interior Minister Dacic. You've forgotten that he was the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior and that he didn't need the support of the DS, no one, but only needed to implement some reform, which he obviously wasn't capable of for reasons known to everyone. On the subject of research, and of who was quoted, etc., I unfortunately, gentlemen, was not president of any party, I was minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't order any research. I didn't do that job, as Mr. Ivica Dacic did. I claim that both now and then, the Serbian army was Serbia's most respected state institution. I don't have any dilemma. If we look at just how many people have applied to enrol in the Military Academy or what success you're evaluating that it's against the criminal-police academy, you'll see that it's simply not standing. I understand your need to politically manipulate the data, but I'll tell you that in that government, Ivica Dacic was, perhaps, the best singer, far from being the best minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46870	The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46871	I'm thanking you. I agree with Mr. Sutanovec. Ivica Dacic was the best in that government. So, there were no better ones. I will remind you once again, as Mr. Sutanovac obviously does not trust the European Security and Co-operation Organisation. So 2011 research, police and the MUP in front of the military and in front of the defences, and during which Dragan Sutanovac served as defence minister. So, never in the history of the military was the Ministry of Defence at a lower level of citizens' trust, but then, even during their favorite prime minister, Milan Nedic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46872	On what basis now, Mr. Schutanovac? ` (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am mentioned by name and last name. He just said you were a minister. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: in a bad context. In a bad context? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46873	If he says it's never been worse, I'll remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the respected public who is watching this session today, I'm glad, here we have people in uniform, cops, who will remember that it never happened, but it never happened, that the police are strikein' in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia and carrying a transparent "We will, as we are in the military." Gentlemen, am I telling the truth? The whole truth. So, manipulation of some data. Again, I have no problem, my colleague Dacic sang best from all of us. It's a fact, but the best minister... (The People's MP Vanja Vukic throws it away. I didn't understand you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46874	Please, no direct address. Bring the replica to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46875	He heard about the visa liberalisation when Vuk Jeremic and Tadic ended it. Trust me. So, we have footage from Brussels where Tadic and Jeremic are negotiating it, and that same night is sung "Miljacka" in front of citizens who are there... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46876	The word has the People's MP Vanja Vukic, right to replication, and we end up with replicas of the amendment that has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46877	Mr. Chairman, MP Dragan Sutanovac obviously does not know how the visa liberalisation system works, because it is not a political matter. It's a technical matter. In order to obtain visa liberalisation, in order to allow citizens to travel to EU countries without visas, technical conditions must be met, which are primarily biometric documents that have begun to be issued during the time of the Minister of Interior being Ivica Dacic, the laws needed to adopt, which are: the Law on Asylum, the Law on the State Border and the Law on Foreigners. So they were adopted in November 2008. In Brussels, in addition, to abolish visa liberalisation was Boris Tadic, who went there purely politically, who went politically. No media, I'm talking about freedom of the media, has reported that the interior minister, who was the most responsible for it, was in Brussels. So much for media freedom. The only way to find out, as the interior minister said to President Boris Tadic at the time, that Minister Ivica Dacic was in Brussels is that the plane they were both on fell. So much for media freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46878	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What amendment? ) Amendment to Article 26. It's your second consecutive amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46879	It is an amendment which is analogue, i.e. Amendment 25. So this is where the police station is bound to inform local authorities, local self-government about the state of security in the territory of the local self-government. I think it's one of the steps to not decentralised management, but to decentralised the impact of local security from local self-government on police, which, as we heard, and I don't have a problem with that, the chief of the police may come from another city, can advance from a smaller city to a larger city, will have the opportunity to consider information and give him suggestions on what they think, as representatives of citizens in the local parliament, what police should do more, what should be put on a higher accent and what is important for the security of all local self-government citizens. Thank you. This amendment has been accepted. It is some tenth accepted amendment of a total of 14. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46880	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. That, as far as I know, is the third consecutive accepted amendment, Mr. Sutanovac. What would Pavicevic give if he were you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46881	How can I tell you, when amendments are good, when professional people work, when they are not politically and party-stricken, then amendments are accepted. This amendment is again in line with amendments 25 and 26. It's right here that the police point out interests, first of all, citizens, not their own interests. Police are in the position and protection and security of citizens of local self-government and all citizens of Serbia. This amendment goes in the direction of what I was saying, which is a kind of decentralisation of influence, not handling, but affecting the security policy in the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46882	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46883	The adoption of this amendment will be another step further in police action to prevent domestic violence and further the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. According to the new law, a special member provides for urgency in the conduct of police to prevent domestic violence. However, the adoption of the amendment also envisions urgent police action when it comes to reporting threats of domestic violence. Unfortunately, the practice has shown that threats in a large number of cases have been achieved and therefore I believe that the adoption of this amendment will significantly raise the level of police prevention in preventing domestic violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46884	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46885	Thank you for this amendment, too. It's part of a common effort to face the problem Serbia has, it's domestic violence. What are the problems we have? The problem is the police's conduct of legal jurisdiction. So only a court in some cases can impose certain measures, and if we give such powers to the police, we could abuse the rights of the police that are more of a social danger than the benefits that come from it. We have to make sure that the Criminal Code is changed, I think the Justice Department is working intensively, we're part of a task force, we're part of the prosecution, and we're trying to find the best model to protect women from abusers, how to protect them from economic, not just physical oppression, and that's a very important message for all those who intend to hit women or do evil. That is why we care about the support of the whole society, namely yours and the entire National Assembly. What is also important is to understand what is the jurisdiction of the institutions in the Republic of Serbia. I'd like it when everything that's ever been put in the hands of the police as a wish for the police to solve is legally possible, but it's not. It's just that the police can't be the answer to every problem in society. I know that when people don't have what they come to the police and say – get us through this. There's a law, and the law says it's just a court of law, for example. can order distance from the apartment, only the court can order entry into the apartment and it protects each one of us. It protects our fundamental rights and freedoms, because the Constitution of our country says the apartment is injureable. So there is, when we talked about that Austrian model, there are several models that are involved, but it's important that there is judicial protection that everyone has the right to protection in any way. In order for the court to determine the exact measures when we can enter the apartment, when we can get the bully out of the apartment and when the woman who is the victim of violence can continue to use the apartment whether it's her apartment or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46886	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46887	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, guests from the Ministry of Police, I would like to support my colleague Filipovski and tell you as a doctor who faces violence of all kinds, including domestic violence. Since I'm a specialist, the otorinolaringologist and that there are mass injuries that are applied right on the head and on the neck. The explanation that we have to have the court's decision certainly to support, but what you're afraid of is the physical distance of the bully from the apartment. I'm telling you, you already have the authority to keep anyone who commits any crime or violence for 48 hours. I'll tell you as a doctor that many of the injuries applied to the head and neck are not serious physical injuries by which a criminal court and you would be ordered to arrest a bully when there is a serious physical injury. What happens when he beats her with a baseball bat, doesn't break a single bone, and there's no internal bleeding? It's led like an easy-to-mean physical injury and then a bully like that stays in a home, and that woman who's beaten has to run out of the house and hide in a safe house. This is precisely the desire to create an opportunity through the amendments for the police to react, because the police are first with doctors as state bodies facing violence. You have to react together when the doctor reports that the right hand of the bully is the left half of the victim's body, when the bruises are on the left side of the woman's body, that's the right hand of the bully. It's more than clear that there was violence, that he beat her up. If this is done by categorizing judicial medicine as an easy-to-mean physical injury, it's something that prevents you from getting the court's support that you arrest him and that the state goes against him. I've submitted some amendments, and I'm going through these amendments to talk, but here I want to draw attention to the irregularities in your fear of breaking some of the criminal code legal frameworks, to get the court's support. I'll tell you, there's violence in that vacuum, and that's what a bully hides in that vacuum.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46888	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46889	I don't know if there's a man in the O.R. who'd rather agree with you. So also as the father of a female child, and as minister of the interior, and as a man whose kind of violence is extremely foreign and very inconceivable. We have a problem in society to identify what we want the police to do. The police are currently in charge of respecting what the prosecutor says. We can't even hold someone for 48 hours without a prosecutor's order. So the D.A. is giving us everything. He makes a proposal to the court, the court decides to detain at the prosecutor's request. The police don't have that kind of jurisdiction anymore. So the police can't get into someone's apartment unless they see the crime committed. He can't call someone into an apartment he doesn't have a warrant for. It's by law, the Constitution. Imagine if someone from your apartment turned the phone and said something was going on here, and in two minutes, the police broke down the door, walked into the house, picture a press conference, what you'd say against the police. So the police without a court order can't get into anyone's apartment, it's absolutely impossible. The constitution forbids it and the police do not lead the investigation, the prosecution is in charge of the investigation. So if we want the police to have more jurisdiction, then we should also change the Code of Criminal Procedure and Methods and Way of Thinking and tell the police to lead the investigation, the police have those powers, those powers, those powers. It's currently in line with the current constitution, with the laws, and it's impossible. As much as you and I agree, I'm appalled when I've listened to a confession from a safe house, when I've heard that there are children whose abusers, whether it's their father, stepdad, or anything like that, or doesn't matter what it is, break their ribs. The emotions that flood you at that moment and desire what you would do at that moment with that bully are one thing, legal treatment unfortunately is another. So, as police, we have to listen to what the prosecutor says, and the prosecutor proposes measures to the court, the court takes it. It's the only way to protect everyone by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46890	The word has a folk MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46891	Surely there is none of the MPs here in the Assembly Hall who disagrees that when it comes to preventing and combating domestic violence, it should be effective and timely and at the right time and of course protect the victim of domestic violence, and that, according to the perpetrator of domestic violence, adequate measures are taken. However, what I must point out is that the police have no legal authority for what the opposition is proposing, which is the authority of moving out of the apartment, as well as the issuing of a restraining order against the damaged, or the victim of domestic violence. What would be achieved by accepting such an amendment? A complete conflict of the Law on Police and Family Law would be achieved, and we know that the cohesion of two laws leads to nothing but legal chaos and legal uncertainty of citizens. I would just like to point out that the Family Law in Article 198 paragraph 2 (1) and (3) accurately and accurately determines that the jurisdiction to impose a safeguard measure relating to point 1) of issuing an eviction order and under point 3 is to issue a ban on the victim of domestic violence in the exclusive jurisdiction of the court. For that reason, I think we all have a common goal, to protect victims of domestic violence, but certainly, Article 28 is precise and clearly suggesting what is police jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46892	Thank you. According to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46893	Thank you. We're going back to work. Mr. Milisavlevich, by what amendment do you want the word? (Dusan Milisavljevic, from post: After amendment to Article 28) After the amendment to Article 28? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46894	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, shortly before when I was presenting information on why the police should distance the bully from the family home, we exchanged opinions and representatives of the police and some MPs, and that's where we differ. There are wishes from the Ministry of Police to the prosecution, i.e. The Department of Justice has ordered that a certain person who committed violence be removed from the family home. I want to tell you that in the last year, there were six thousand reported violence against women. Of this, 3,642 cases were passed to the prosecution, where the prosecution reached 1,712 verdicts, and that only 634 prison sentences, that the prosecution only imposed 70 measures last year to move the thugs out of the family home, while 1,250 women left their homes and went to the Safe House. This is exactly the data that speaks of the necessity that the police who first come in contact with the bully to have this measure of temporary distance from the bully as an emergency measure to protect women from domestic violence. I want the MPs to inform us that this idea is in line with the adopted Council of Europe Convention signed by Serbia on 31 October 2013, so-called The Istanbul Convention, which proposes as an emergency measure and precisely to the police that it is authority. What I also want to share with you is that these laws have Austrian legislation which first took place ten years ago, that it was then adopted in the German legislation and in Slovenia that it was something that had little variation, but that it was a fundamental desire to protect a woman who had been beaten and who had to run away and to hide from her family home and to flee to "Safe House" and to hide with her friends. I would also like to say that this measure and this model in 2000 were supported by the UN, the Council of Europe and the EU and declared as a good practice to be followed by other countries. From 2000 to today, as I mentioned, Germany, Switzerland, Slovenia are countries that followed the Austrian model and did so. I don't think it's impossible for the police to do that right now. I've listed information that tells you that when it went through the D.A.'s office what the number of violence was made and how many cases were prosecuted and that shows the practical need for the police first to be on the ground along with doctors who first see this violence to react. I will again point out as a doctor that many injuries are treated as easy and that the law does not treat such violence i.e. It doesn't treat easy bodily injury, middle body injury. The only way a lawsuit can lead a victim, not a state, and this is only one contribution to make it impossible for the state to keep the bully in touch with a woman who has suffered violence. One blow to a woman would be a coup against a bully with this legal proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46895	I thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. Just one more question – did you talk about the amendment that was accepted, the amendment of Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric or by amendment... I'm from your exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46896	A group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46897	We haven't moved on to that amendment yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46898	We didn't cross? Consider it a discussion under that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46899	That's why I asked you. To Article 28... Mr. Jovanovic, the same question for you – do you speak by amendment? Yeah. I have to ask this because we still had a break in the meantime and from the presentation of Mr. Milisavljevic I saw that he was talking about the amendment... Here you go. Mr. Minister, do you want to answer? (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the post: When Mr Jovanovic is finished. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46900	I thank the Minister and the Honorable Chairman. I think that we have gone far with this debate, and we are going to an extra debate, noting that until it is resolved systemically, or until the laws change, there is nothing we can do in a procedural and legal sense, to increase the degree of protection, especially by respecting the presentation of a respected MP from the DS who explained from a medical point of view the reasons and motives of something he is looking for, or what he insists on. However, the Honorable Ministers here is the point of the whole story in amending the Criminal Code, but not only the Criminal Code, but also the Code of Criminal Procedure. For what? Because it is precisely these provisions, especially the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that are very clearly defined by the prosecution's jurisdiction from a pre-criminal procedure to a public prosecutor's investigation and, of course, further during the investigation and, of course, further during the main investigation. Here we are talking about some institutes that are purely procedural and legal in nature or criminal procedural and legal nature. Why? Because we have come to the conclusion that the amendments of New Serbia MPs have made proposals that you have accepted, and that amendment has become an integral part of the law which is very good, but also because of citizens, we need to draw attention to the threat or putting itself in the event of an evil face, it is still not the crime that has been committed because after the threat, there must be consequences and a causal link between the threat and the consequences, and only then do we have a final criminal act on which the suspect is being prosecuted. In a specific case, the public prosecutor is the only authority that can reflect these procedural powers from the moment the crime is committed. The threat itself does not yet mean that we have come to a final crime, and only a final crime implies everything that relates to the perpetrator from the moment he is brought in, when he will eventually be detained for 48 hours, etc. I, with all due respect and respect, accept all the reasons that are presented here, but it is up to us, whether it is this convocation or some other call, to insist that by introducing or systematicising new criminal acts in the Criminal Code, as well as certain procedural actions that may be transferred from the authority of the public prosecutor to the police, although I am not sure that it will be so simple to go, only then can we talk about the suspect, or the suspect, and not the perpetrator of the crime, he is only a suspect because there is a basis of doubt and a basis of doubt, can we process it in the way it is sought here. Until then, we can talk for five days, five nights, do nothing, and not just so much, but much longer. At the Justice Ministry, it is also suggested that there will be changes and additions to the Criminal Code. I firmly believe that, and I hope that in this direction this degree of protection that we are looking for and the protective good, and here is the crucial protection of women whose protection is required of violence, can be achieved in the most effective way. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46901	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46902	What's the matter, Mr. Jovanovic? The problem is that when you and I say something like that, we turn out to be villains who don't really want enough to protect women. The problem is that if we were to give a warrant to the police tonight to break into any apartment and protect the victim from violence, that bully would get us in court and those people who entered his apartment against the law and would answer against it, he'd be released in court for unlawful deprivement of freedom, and we would be essentially in trouble. The damage compensation is special, additional pain for the victim of violence, etc. Our society has defined itself as a prosecutor's investigation in the past. Our system is talking about the prosecution investigation. The police can't be the authority that executes the prosecution's orders and someone who performs independently in the investigation. So, the D.A.P., or the police, can't handle either a criminal or a criminal case, can't act without a prosecutor's order, can't deprive him of his freedom without the prosecution's warrant and can't determine detention without a court order. So, the ministry simply, as much as I wish we could protect the victims of violence, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to put a cop in every apartment, if we can, where there's any doubt, but we can't. So our job is to find mechanisms in the next period to change the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Constitution, if necessary, and to provide greater powers to the police. If that's the will of the MPs and the majority of the people, why not? More power to the MUP in this particular area, to give the police the possibility that in the case of domestic violence they can enter only with the prosecution's order under emergency procedure, without the court's order and that we have this clearly defined both in the Constitution and in the laws. Then the police can do it. Otherwise, we'd be making a legal problem. As nice as that sounds to say it now, there wouldn't be any results, it would fall in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46903	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46904	The distance of a bully, male or female, from a house where domestic violence is committed must be... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46905	Mrs. Komic, please, and when it comes to Mr. Milosavljevic and Mr. Jovanovic, you are still talking about an amendment that is not, i.e. Don't talk about that amendment. Let me move on to the next amendment, so you can talk about the subject. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic. The amendment promoter has an advantage though. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46906	I think my debate will help solve this problem better, which is a serious problem. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, Interior Ministers with Associates, the Social Democratic Party – Boris Tadic, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia has tabled an amendment to Article 28. Article 28 of Article 1 adds a new position of 2 which reads, I will read it because it is important: “In cases of domestic violence under Article 1 of this Article, police officers are authorised to carry out a temporary detachment measure from the address of the dwellings, from the house, or the apartment of a person who commits violence against family members for at least 14 days, as well as to temporarily prohibit contact with a member of the family, in order to prevent further violence. ” In this previous debate, we have received many arguments and totally acceptable as far as our Criminal Code is concerned. But I, as a non-professional lawyer, ask the minister a question. Let's say, if the person you report, that's. He calls the police on the phone that he's a victim, that he's a subject of violence or someone in the neighborhood who hears it, the police come, but she can practically stand outside the door and listen to that bully beat up his family and harass it, and she can't do anything? That's a little bit amazing, because I think better coordination in such cases, and that's the goal of this amendment, with the prosecution on this kind of application, the police should be prepared to intervene and, in such a case, obtain a solution to perform certain actions in terms of saving these people. Furthermore, what's groundless is that the victim of violence has to leave the house, and remains a bully, with whom I seem too flirted and the law is not so rigid that he can't get into an apartment with a prepared court order and save people who are apparently exposed to great violence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46907	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mr. Minister, do you want a word now? (Yes) The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46908	When it comes to committing a crime that is under way, you have the right to call for help, you have the right to enter and, of course, later on, a report is submitted to the judge for the previous proceedings. The question now is, when someone calls you and says, "Please, get someone out of my apartment." What makes the police go into the apartment and distance someone from that apartment? Here, I'm asking you -- how do we do that to get the police in? They call one of your neighbors and they say, "We hear something strange from this apartment, get the man out of this apartment, and the police come, open the door for you, and say, "Come out, you're a bully and throw you out." This is essentially what requires the court's order, so that there is no such abuse. I'm talking to you about a possible model of abuse, that one of your neighbors will deliberately call and say that you are committing domestic violence against one of your family members and call the police. So, by this I should immediately, i.e. the director, or whoever is in charge, direct the police to the scene, take you out of your apartment and ban you from entering your apartment. Well, wait, how do we determine the facts, how do we get into the apartment? We can't determine the facts based on what. You can only determine your actual condition by entering the apartment. But what are we gonna find in that apartment? Maybe the act's over. Maybe the person under which the violence is committed is intimidated in the meantime, maybe he won't say anything. Maybe she's hurt. Maybe she was expelled from her apartment. I'm just telling you it's a terribly complex situation. So, the police have a chance in case of committing a crime to hear, that you enter the apartment and react, but the problem arises in that part – the distance of the bully from the apartment, which must be done under the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's simple, there's no police authority that can be interpreted so widely. The police don't have it, but I don't mind the police getting it. If the police get it, the police will do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46909	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46910	Thank you. The distance of a male or female bully from an apartment, a house where domestic violence occurs cannot be done by anyone but the police. I'm glad there's enough of us to endure similar amendments, because I know how difficult it is for our society to accept the fact that there is domestic violence. So, like, when the traffic police finds a face completely by accident, they test it for the amount of alcohol in the blood that has the right to keep it until it sobers up, he hasn't done anything yet, but he can, because he's driving in an alcoholic state, as you can have a facial retention measure. It was explained to me theoretically and practically when we claimed that one MP had been arrested without removing immunity, so she explained that he was not but being detained. This is about breaking point, or we want the police to act after applying for domestic violence to the one who commits violence to women or men is away from that space for 48 hours, for all the hours that we agree on or not. There's no criminal procedure that can replace that, it's got to be the police's behaviour. Every kind of argument, we've got a report of domestic violence, but we don't know if it happened. You didn't see what domestic violence looked like. If there's any doubt about whether it happened or not. For a long time, we will have problems really rooting out domestic violence from our homes because it is socially acceptable to beat each other with women or men, to harass each other regardless of the age of children or old people. That's why it's important in any amendment to any proposal, in any agreement that the MUP has with any of us to make a rule, that anyone commits domestic violence in the house where they live that they'll be far away from that space by police treatment. There's no one else who can replace it, everything else has been sued, investigated, determined, and everything else, it's important to get rid of the bully. You say you can't go into an apartment while there's a felony, and if you have a report here that there's a shoplifting, you can't go to the exchange room. We don't see violence as a real crime in families, and that's our big problem. There's still a private matter with us that's someone, so now we're just gonna break some rights. No violence is private, none. Until we understand it and say decisively "no" and verbal violence, and sports violence, and physical violence, and domestic violence, and legal violence and any kind of violence, until there is a very clear message here that we will not see violence in our society, as long as it takes time, so many more unnecessary victims will be. I ask you, in any way, that the ministry understands the need for a police act of a person who commits violence to the shortest possible period of time from an apartment where domestic violence is committed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46911	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46912	In this we're completely consenting ministry wants to move the unsub out of the apartment in the shortest possible time. But here's what the Constitution says - Article 40. - The apartment is non-injurious, no one can enter another person's apartment or other rooms without a written decision or search it against the will of its holder. The tenant of the apartment and other rooms has the right to attend the search by himself or by means of his representative. If the householder or his representative are not present, the search is permitted in the presence of two full - time witnesses. Without a court decision, entering another person's apartment or other premises, exceptional, and searching without witnesses are allowed if necessary in order to directly deprive the perpetrator of a criminal offence or to eliminate direct and serious dangers to people or property in the manner provided for by law. So that's when the crime happens at that moment. I'm just telling you about a solution to a distance without eviction, without a court decision. You can't make a police decision like that. I don't mind the police getting those powers, don't get me wrong. If the police need to get those powers, I'm a privy who's going to be in agreement and get the authority to get into those cases, and bring a solution to eviction and distance, and a restraining order without court, without prosecution, without anything, fully prepared. As Minister of the Interior, the police will be given authority even though they will be responsible for us, we are fully prepared to take over, but then there is no speech on the conduct of the investigation by the prosecutor and by the court's orders. Then, in that case, it completely dissuades itself. You'll have the possibility of an abuse that someone who reports anyone in this room commits at this point a crime of abuse of a woman, domestic violence, that the police are breaking into your apartment to determine that there's nothing, that they're breaking your door, there's nothing, and they're coming out of your apartment and so on to thousands of addresses. I'm just saying that we have a social danger to bring someone into your apartment without a court order. It's a social hazard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46913	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46914	Thank you. Dear Minister, I think it's time we cut off a story that goes pretty wide, and I hope it's not a citizens' advocacy in terms of political marketing. I don't want to accept it that way. It has been stated that the distance measure can be identified with the protective measure of the detention of the offender who operated the vehicle in an alcoholic state. I have to remind you of one fact that no one can question. Protective measures are accompanying measures with a criminal offence or a misdemeanor. Whoever was driving in an alcoholic state has already committed a violation by being in an alcoholic state. Thus, what is called a safeguard measure is exhausted, and that is to keep it, and that is to keep it until it is sobered, but he has committed an offence, he has driven in an alcoholic state. It can't be a parallel to what's connected to the apartment and the doing of the crime in the apartment. If we have a situation that the perpetrator of a crime of domestic violence or violent behavior has begun direct violence against the victim, against the damaged. At that point, there are no limits to overpowering, these borders are far away, the police can intervene. The threat itself is not the execution of the act. If someone calls for a threat the police are coming to that apartment, anyone who has been reported as someone who has threatened not to commit a crime and anyone who would react from police officers would have exceeded the limits of his official authority because he had not been found in the execution of the crime. If he'd found him committing a crime, he'd have had to react. In this direction, all other measures and measures of detention and detention and measures could be implemented before the judge for the previous proceedings. And, uh, the detention rate of eight days or thirty days. So it's all something regulated by law. Please don't confuse the citizens. There's nothing we can do until we systematically resolve some issues. When we solve them systematically, we amend other laws that give greater authority to the police, primarily the CAP, and then the Criminal Law, then let's talk about this topic. Now we can talk as much as we want and tell the citizens that something is possible that is not possible even though we want it to be so, honestly we want it, but what the law defines, and you have mentioned the Constitution that is through legislative acts, then we no longer have a problem with whether something is acceptable, possible or impossible. It's impossible and illegal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46915	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Professor Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46916	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you with much more understanding to discuss this matter. I'm speaking to you as a person who's as a doctor in contact with victims of violence. When you see these women who are beaten with bruises, broken nose, torn lips, broken beard, broken bone, no law can say that the barrier is the integrity of space. You in Serbia have the information that ten days ago a woman in domestic violence is killed precisely because we are not preventing the consequences. We need to be clear and say it. I'm telling you the data, and I mentioned it a little while ago, and I'm gonna mention it again, last year, 6,000 reported domestic violence against women, of which 3,642 cases passed to the prosecution. Listen, the D.A. brought in one. 712 convictions, of which only 624 prison sentences. That the D.A. said only 70 feet away last year, and 1. 250 women fled to the safe house. It's official data. And the data to kill a woman in domestic violence for ten days is an alarm for Serbian society to protect women. Your Honor, no one is negotiating with the police, I know you're taking care of the police and possibly some abuses, but here we need to find a legal solution to protect women. When someone says it's marketing, what kind of people marketing. So here is the interest of all of us and that more violence, violence must be combined in all the pores of society to fight it. So, there's violence here, and when I tell you as a doctor, you have injuries against women who have been shot, who have not had any broken bones, to be treated like a serious physical injury, to get the prosecution started, it's treated like an easy one, and then the prosecution doesn't express the detention rate. So, we need to tighten the fines, we need to give the police the opportunity to get that bully away right now, because, according to a doctor who's finding violence, you have no right under these current laws to get away from a bully. We're trying to improve it with amendments. And this is not a proposal from any political party, let me tell you, this is a proposal from the National Women's Organisations, which calls for support from politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46917	I thank Mr. Milisavlovic, and your group of MPs is out of time. Mrs. Comic, you don't have time. The word has a minister, Mr. Sutanovac, before you have MPs. The minister has a replica of Mr. Milisavljevic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46918	I don't see anyone in this room agreeing, because I think we're all in agreement. Give authority to the police. I'm asking you now, and you're going to do it by suggesting what you're going to do, not through the Police Act, because it's impossible, through amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, give the police powers, do everything in their power, give us broad powers, and we'll do it, and it's great to start with the opposition, so that the police don't campaign afterwards as the police ask for some authority, so I don't know what they're doing. Let the opposition MPs, you, Mr. Milisavljevic, give us a bill that will have wider and greater powers like the police and that with these powers we can move away, stop, do everything we can and trust me, no one will be happier than me to bring every bully in within five minutes and take him away from the victim, right away, in five minutes, as long as it took from the station to the apartment to get there, so long, and we will immediately do it and take responsibility, but give us the instrument. Give us the instruments, give us that we can work, the minister can't order the police to act against the law, against the constitution, it's just impossible, even when, I'm appalled by what's going on over women and children, appalled and shocked, when we see what's going on, breaking ribs, legs and arms, slappings and bruises and beaten women, horror. Then those perpetrators would easily, they would come out with a smile, the police bring them in, tomorrow their lawyer comes in and says, "I'm sorry, did you have a warrant to come in?" I ask you to release my client, he is illegally detained, illegally away, illegally entered his apartment, and there is no court, but to strike with a hammer and to say – let him go. Then they'll say let him go to the police. The police must do as the court and the prosecution say. It's a system in the country. If it were different, then it would turn out that you and I are negotiating how the police are going to work. Then we have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46919	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46920	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think there really is, not just in this room, in our society, anyone who isn't against domestic violence being reduced to a socially acceptable measure and that the perpetrators of domestic violence are being punished as harshly as possible. But now with this amendment, we are really asking the Ministry for the impossible. Mr. Milisavljevic presented some information that is accurate and familiar with the public. As an MP group, we often talked about domestic violence in this room. Every ten days, one woman dies in domestic violence, but I will mention one other information. In Belgium, which, we will agree, is a much more orderly country, which has other sanctions and is the EU's headquarters, unfortunately every other day one woman is killed in domestic violence. What's not good? It's not a good politicization of all that. For what? The causes of family violence are diverse, psychosocial, economic, a series of diseases, uncleared accounts, etc. What happens to us when there's domestic violence with a tragic outcome? First, Prime Minister Vukic and the police minister are called that they are responsible for everything and responsible. What the Government can do and what there is agreement between the government and the opposition, it is that within the shortest possible time, we agree all the laws, we amend the Criminal Procedure Act and that other powers are given to the police and that the police act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. With this amendment, unfortunately, it can't be compared to other laws and then it would pass me a law that's in some respects. That's why I think we need to bring this debate to an end, to realize that there is absolute agreement between everyone and then, as soon as possible, to move towards a change of law and to give greater authority to the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46921	The word is made by the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević, then by Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am in favor of not accepting this amendment for a number of reasons. I think he needs to work first. It must be incorporated into the Criminal Code, it must be installed somewhere, and as suggested, it is inconclusive to me. They all started from the fact that a man would commit violence against a woman or possibly a woman against a man. If you take someone away for 14 days, in a certain way you deprive him of his freedom and you have to see what you're going to do with that person, and I'm asking you, and there's an increasingly common phenomenon, what if domestic violence is committed by minors over parents, both grandparents? So, in such situations, we have to have clear and precise instructions from the amendment promoters, what is happening in such situations, or in what way the police, by taking these people who are underage, who have committed violence against parents, parents, grandparents, and this is an increasingly common phenomenon, we can read in the press, what is happening in such situations, so that the proposer is bound, although I like their idea, and I must admit it, that it was a little bit more thoroughly worked out in this law, in some other laws, that more thoroughly arranged the way the police do, and what happens to the people whose distance they predict, what if it is about minors, and parents or grandparents are victims because poverty, unemployment, low-paid work, brings consequences? Children are often nervous about not having what other children have and often resorting to violence against parents and grandparents because they cannot afford what others can afford to their children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46923	The word has a folk MP Dragan Sutanovac, then Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46924	I mean, we don't have absolute consent here. If we have absolute consent, we will vote this. It didn't happen that now we're all interpreting whether it's by the Constitution or not, because there's a Constitutional Court, so let him take this provision down if we make a mistake today. There can't be an argument of false reporting. False reporting, Mr. Minister, exists today, being prosecuted and punished, and there can be no argument that those who threaten cannot be detained. Those who even threaten Facebook and social networks are detained. So, people, here we have a situation where we can save someone's life. You say under the Constitution you have no right to enter an apartment except in a situation of immediate danger. Where will you put more danger in a country where in the last three months, 60% increased domestic violence? So, 60% increased domestic violence. Let's make a mistake, so let the Constitutional Court deny us, let's make the opposite decision, but at least let's be here at peace of mind when we say we're all the same attitude and the same opinion and take care of the women and everyone who's threatened, what happens behind closed doors and does anyone get beat up and get beaten? Mr. Minister, believe me, it'll be a lot easier for you to sleep tonight if you accept this, so if the Constitutional Court takes it down, let it go to our honor, and if it doesn't, we'll all be happy, because we've done one human thing to those most endangered, it's part of our society, because every ten days someone gets killed violently, of course, I mean women, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46925	The word has a minister, a replica of Mr. Sutanovac's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46926	In this country, confidence in institutions has increased, which is why we have increased number of applications for domestic violence. It's a good thing and this is a good thing that we're discussing today, to show that we have the awareness that it exists and that we want to do something about it. And I don't have any problem accepting this, I'd even have a political gain there. I have no shadow of doubt in that sense. What's the problem? It is not a problem that the Constitutional Court will, for example, declare it unconstitutional, but that all persons who are punished on that basis, who are far away, to whom any measure has been imposed, will be compensated, who will sue the state and imagine that the judgment will bring back that bully who is returning to that woman who has been harassed, beaten, and told her – you see that you can't do anything to me, the court is bringing me back to this apartment, and only because we in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner have deprived him of liberty and distanced him. It's simple, as serious and responsible people, we can't bring something that we know in advance isn't constitutional and it's not legal. I, as interior minister, would like the police to have ten times more powers in this segment, 100 times more powers. I'm just afraid of what we're going to do, and how are we going to explain to the citizens when those judgments start to fall, when we start losing our jobs, when we have to pay for the damages and those thugs to get back to those homes? That scares me. How are we going to explain this to anyone and most victims of violence? As far as I'm concerned, I think we have a much better solution, which is that in the next shortest month, two months, three months, as long as it takes, to prepare a good and quality Code of Criminal Procedure, to bring it along with the Justice Department, and I will run a campaign with you to accept all amendments. I know Dr. Milisavljevic from the previous call, all those laws we discussed together, about health, about family, I think that man had very correct amendments and all that we did together gave results in this National Assembly. I respect what he's doing, and that's why I'm willing to campaign together with him to accept any amendment that will lead to increased police authority. But we have to do it so that it doesn't fall anywhere, that we stand firm in court and that woman knows she's truly protected. So when we get the bully away, he's away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46927	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46928	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had no intention of answering, but I think that one of these complex and complex topics that requires a problem of domestic violence and violence against women is something that binds us all and regardless of the politicality and the differences between us, this is a complex problem. I will use that syntagm, not to copy and imitate Nikola Pasic, but also Mr. Milisavljevic and Minister Stefanovic are right, both. Why do I say that? Because the urgency and neurality of the problem of violence against women and in the family that our society is facing is particularly present for the last few years, through the alarming figures we face when it comes to women victims of domestic violence. But, on the other hand, our society, our state and all institutions have done so far and are doing everything in our domain, through the prism of respect and application of so-called. The Istanbul Convention, which we signed and ratified as a state, and we are proud to point out, as the eighth country in the world. No, fortunately for us, this problem is no longer taboo. So, as 15, 20 years ago, we had a problem with children who were disabled, who were parents hiding from the family, from neighbors and the public, and now we've solved this problem, there's no shame in being disabled anymore, especially no shame living in a family with disabilities, so the problem of violence against women has become increasingly present and visible, and unfortunately and fortunately. Fortunately, because in the last few years we have succeeded through the civil sector, through the media, through the help of the institutions, well, if we are honest, and all of us here in Parliament, as many of us as there are of the MPs and MPs, to raise this problem to one significant level, therefore, to encourage both those victims and those who will potentially be victims, but also their environment, whether they are family members or neighbors, to report it. And it's happening more and more. However, efficiency and problems in the work of the institutions are what we are facing. The police really have their hands tied sometimes, but sometimes there's no feedback. I will make you a concrete remark that we had recently in Zrenjanin, when the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality had a round table and a session outside the seat, on the subject of domestic violence, on purpose in Zrenjanin, because Zrenjanin as a city has this model of coordination of all institutions, from the Centre for Social Work through the Police, the Prosecutor's Office, to the courts, doing so very quickly. There is no more than 15 days in Zrenjanin and the district without domestic violence reported and not being prosecuted, or brought to judgment. So you can do it whenever you want. But on the other hand, that's where we heard, say, a police remark that the police don't know what's going on with the person who was brought in for domestic violence, they don't have any feedback from the prosecution. So we have a communication problem between our institutions. We must also have this coordination called communication between institutions, which are bound by the law to protect the victim and to take care of the law, to further improve. These deadlines and what little time it is, and the minister said something that I believe we can very quickly remove, regardless of the new elections being in sight. We will be working as a Assembly in February of the month and I see this reconciliation, not to mention the way out of this stalemate position, because indeed the police without amending the Criminal Procedure Act cannot do so in the way proposed by the promoter of this amendment, and I think it is good to offer to the Joint Forces, all together, here I am free to offer and the jurisdiction of the Committee dealing with these issues, to approach and to offer, in cooperation with the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Justice, amendments and addition of the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to have some new elections here in the evening, in this meeting, amendments and addition to that law. In this way, we would show that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that these victims are above the parties, above the elections, above the ratings. In this way we will show only what we should always be – representatives of the people and work in the interests of the people. I believe in good faith and pronouns, but I think it's the only way. Because here we are, I'd say, caught in some kind of mengel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46929	Thank you, Mr. Omerovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46930	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, it is good to agree that we need to do something about the question of how we can, by amending the law and the state's authorities, change the way we work in order to reduce domestic violence and protect victims of domestic violence as effectively as possible. Surely this is a complex topic and that if we go to talk about what are possible modalities, the best modality to protect the state, that as much as possible of reducing abuse, we can debate indefinitely, but unfortunately life every day brings some sacrifice of violence to families in Serbia. We started this amendment, gave one solution, so the police would get the authority to do something right now to protect the victims of domestic violence, without, without going into court proceedings and the result of this procedure that will be conducted under the Code of Criminal Procedure, it's quite certain that today, but we have specific situations, examples from last year, where the thugs were released immediately, then returned to their families and even more severe forms of violence with a fatal event. So we can take one step today, do it. I'm quite certain that the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure which regulates domestic violence are also necessary, but I'm afraid that, realistically, until the election is held, there's no time to do so. We'll lose at least a few months and, despite all our will to say that we have the best will and desire to do something, we won't do it. I'm not afraid of any damage that can happen if we adopt this amendment today, or the state authorities, or the police act on it, and in some later process, someone is looking for compensation for damages. Believe me, if we can, if we're going to save one, two lives with this kind of police activity in the next few months, I think it's worth maybe the money the state loses. But I doubt that would be a big deal. This is about a temporary measure, at least 14 days and a temporary ban on contact with a family member in order to prevent further violence. That's what our amendment says, so not a permanent distance, not something that must certainly be finished and done in court. I call on you to accept this amendment today, to give the police legal authority that in this particular case it can act immediately, that perhaps in the next few months until the final adoption and amendments of the CAP and all that, here I am not a lawyer, I repeat it, and I believe that people who know better have the right to be right simply when they say that something needs to be changed there, but I say that, despite all our best wishes, I don't believe that it can happen in the first half of this year. I repeat, if we save one or two lives with this amendment and this change, I think it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46931	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has Minister Stefanovic, a replica of Mr Djurisic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46932	We've got another problem we haven't gotten into before in the debate, and that's property property. The Constitution also stipulates that the owner of the property, i.e. the owner of the apartment, is protected at the disposal of the property. So it's the constitutional right of every man -- the right to property, so he has the right to dispose of property, and you can't, without a court decision, remove him from his property. I'm telling you about the injuries that very soon, if you'd done them, the court would have returned the bully within the time limit, as soon as possible, to return him. The judge wouldn't have ordered him in custody, because the police can't get a hold of him. So we take him away from the apartment, take him to the judge, the judge looks at the facts and says, "Let this man go and he comes back to the apartment right now." He'll be right back at the apartment, within the hour, two. He comes right back, angry, angry, and just finely prepared to commit a crime. I'm just saying we have a problem with how to do it legally. The police may, if they look at it that way, come in wherever they have suspicion. There's a suspicion that there's a crime going on, and then it goes in, and it breaks down the door, and it comes in, and it says, "We came in," and it didn't happen, and it's good, and we acted preventively." Imagine a state like that if the police were to break into everyone's apartment because they had reasonable doubts that this was a criminal offence. So believe me, I'm a minister who wishes the police had such powers in domestic violence. We just have to do it the right way. We can't suspend the Constitution by deciding whether or not someone has the right to dispose of their property, we just don't. Secondly, I apologize for going a little over time, just one sentence. Language in this amendment is said to be – police officers are authorised to carry out a temporary detachment measure. The temporary detachment measure cannot be brought to the police. So, we are still authorized to bring, to apply the temporary detachment measure given to us by the court. So this amendment could be interpreted differently. So this isn't where the police say it's taking a measure, but we're authorized to carry it out, and that's the only way a court can do it. Simply and Lexie legally speaking, this amendment could be interpreted in a way that we have the same powers that we now have.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46933	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46934	I thank you, Chairman. I'm really sorry, because when I listen from the point of view of the profession, let's say, the honourable Member of Milisavljevic, I have no reason to believe in the profession, and I'm sure the point of view of the profession is quite right and I can't understand that if someone here who deals with the legal profession, and I personally do not accept the facts, and the facts are contained in the acts, or the laws that define this matter. Let's at least understand one thing, and that's something that no one will ever doubt. Police cannot give themselves authority, nor is that possible in any regulated country, a legally regulated country. Powers are given to the police by a competent authority. Whether it will be a court or a public prosecutor depends on the law, but not the Police Act, but the Criminal Code, or more specifically, the Code of Criminal Procedure. Secondly, something that is not true is said to be carried out on the basis of threats that occur on social networks, or Facebook. It's not true, it's not the police, it's the D.A.'s doing it, and it's giving a warrant to the police to call in, not bring in, but to call in an informative conversation of the person who made the threat on social networks, because it's also one of the illegal actions that must be processed in some way. So this whole story comes down to the fact that from the point of view of moral principles, from the point of view of moral scruples, we have very much the desire and will to protect victims of violence in the best possible way, to prevent every bully from trying anything, not just doing anything. And the attempted crime is punishable. So this isn't about moral scruples. This is about system solutions and provisions of laws that define powers. Power to the police cannot be given to the police alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46935	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46936	This is a good and big day for parliamentaryism in Serbia. I've been listening very carefully to the debate over the past hour. Somehow for all of my dealings, that is, how much time I'm a folk MP, which is eight years old, we've always been looking for those things that separated us, we've always promoted a policy that made us different from others, and as a different presentation to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, thinking that we'd like each other, that we'd be nicer and better. This is the first day maybe when we're looking for similarities, and I think these are similarities, that these points that bring us together are the most stable in our society. I think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are looking for a debate like this, looking for such points that will bring us together. I'm proud of it both to parliament and it's worth it to be all these eight years, to experience a day when we will say – this is a problem, violence against women is inadmissible, we want to work on it, we want to prevent that kind of thing. I think that's good. There is one saying in our society, in our people. They say the pillar of every house, every family of women. I agree with that, and I believe that the other 249 MPs and MPs agree with that finding. I'd like to have a company that won't have safe houses because every safe house will be a safe house for a woman who stands, which is the base and which is the pillar of such a house. And not to think about helping safe houses and building safe houses, but to make every house in this country a safe house for a wife, for a mother, for a daughter, for a grandmother, for every woman. I'm proud we can all work on it. You need to pick a way. Whether we're in a pre-election campaign or not in a pre-election campaign, whether we're MPs or not, we're primarily people, primarily citizens of this country. And I mean, the SNS parliamentary group is ready to work day and night. We have excellent lawyers and my distinguished colleague, Mr Martinovic, and Mrs Biljo Pilja and Dragan Nikolic, and other colleagues and colleagues who are willing to work together with other colleagues and colleagues to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to bring this process to an end in a proper and correct manner. I think it's one good and big step, maybe that step of seven miles, but it's not enough to do something like that and stop. I think it is necessary to encourage all women in Serbia who may be suffering violence at this time. This violence doesn't have to be just physical, it can be psychological violence and maybe it's even more common, because every kind of torture, every kind of violence is inadmissible to anyone. That's why we need together, together again, in every place and in Parliament, and tomorrow in some campaign, and tomorrow in our lives and anywhere, in our parties, anywhere, to send a message and encourage women to report violence. It's a shame to be a victim. It's no shame to suffer violence. It is a disgrace to him who commits violence. They're criminals. They're the ones that need to be put on the blacklists, each and every one of them, including our society. We have to do a lot of work, and it's not enough that the law just makes us do some things. There are things that are above the law. These are God's laws and human laws. It is necessary to behave with dignity and correctness. That's the kind of picture we have to send. The Serbian Progressive Party condemns any kind of violence against anyone, according to those different from us, on any basis. We condemn violence against women, but we are ready every day to provide all our capacities to change certain laws, to become once and for all a good society, a society where every house in Serbia, every apartment in Serbia, every place in Serbia will be a safe house for our mothers, for our wives, for our children, for our sisters. This is good because we agreed, but not to let it stay just we agreed. I want to work on it. I want us to work with new laws. I want us to do this by sending these messages, as Mr. Milisavljevic did earlier, and Mr. Nejo Jovanovic, and Meko Omerovic, and Dragan Šutanovac and Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic, as resolute minister. I think all the other colleagues and colleagues in this room, whether or not they were in this room, still agreed to this discussion. Let this good will, that this good day for parliamentaryism in Serbia and that we materialize through quality solutions and that tomorrow, the bullies and the villains don't beat us by having their country... It's not a big deal if the state is gonna pay them anything if she's wrong. There's no material value that can measure someone's bruise, someone's broken bone or lost life, but it can measure what we lose to a bully. I don't want to lose to a bully. I want us to do it the right way and do the right thing. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party has been in the campaign day and night, not in the campaign, ready to work on such things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46937	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46938	I would like to take this opportunity, Mr Babić, to ask you, as head of the SNS parliamentary group, to ask for one thing, which is that when it is the first time on the agenda of the Criminal Procedure Act, of course in agreement with Minister Selakovic and the people of the Ministry of Justice, we extend the powers of the police in the Code of Criminal Procedure, because the Code of Criminal Procedure gives certain powers to the police that, without the prosecutor can in certain cases act, of course, in accordance with the law, it can never act against the law. I ask you to extend the corps of these powers, to give the police more opportunities in the area of organised crime and domestic violence and then to have the police who can rightly ask for more, but not to be one organ that has no ability to do anything, but to stand by and watch, because it is awaiting orders, then of course people say – excuse us, what are you serving us? Sometimes we really feel that we can't act legally, because we know that he will be released within an hour by the perpetrator, and this way we will have the opportunity to give the police more, to ask for more right, to have more responsibility, but also more authority to protect citizens. That's what this National Assembly can do. I'm sure that's where all the colleagues will be involved regardless of party membership. I heard it in this debate, and I realized we're all standing in the same position. It's hard for me to ask as Minister of the Interior, because then they'll always say we're biased. If that's what the National Assembly is looking for, the police are ready to do it and the police want to do it. Give us the authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46939	The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in explaining this amendment, I've said two key things that are not discussed here at all. So we are fully aware that by this amendment we are not asking for an amendment to the second law, but is appealing to the police to make all their options, which are not small, available at the right time. This means that man often does more harm by not doing it than by doing it wrong and by doing it hard. What we wanted with this amendment is for the police to be prepared for these kind of interventions. This means that if domestic violence is reported that the prosecutor, as it already works, is prepared and that, based on indications that the application on several sides, the solution given that they are going, means, with the possibility to gain insight into the facts. Not always, but certainly that one, two women or two persons, whether female or male, will be saved in a period of time until this Criminal Law is amended. So what we have appealed to is greater mobility in the communication of the police and the prosecution that existing measures can be exploited. Of course, I'm glad we're all getting along, but in a different approach from the woods, you can't see the trees. There's always talk of greater authority. You, with these powers, make more effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46941	Thank you. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Home Secretary with his associates, it is a great pleasure that the amendment has been accepted. However, it is even more satisfying to understand that, with our explanation, the amendment represents a language-programme correction and essentially changes this amendment, i.e. It gives it precision and width in terms of action, and it states that in Article 29, paragraph 1, the word ‘adequate’ is replaced by ‘applicable’. First of all, the word "adequate" is not used in the bill in an appropriate grammatical way, i.e. in an appropriate grammatical form, because in the context of the sentence they should be "adequate" rather than "adequate". However, we believe that the term “appropriate, ” which you have accepted under the circumstances, is one more precise, more comprehensive term. With gratitude for accepting this amendment, we are still behind the fact that a lecturing like this also makes a significant contribution to the precision and determination of many views in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46943	The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46944	I've made an amendment to Article 30, Mr. Minister, with an accent on two things. They may not be essential, but I don't think they're even irrelevant. It's about predicting that forensic art is about using modern forensic methods. I'm not sure we have modern methods. We have put forward a proposal to be available to the Ministry of the Interior. There's one thing that might be a language, I don't think it is, and it's said here -- irregular migration. As far as I know, it's internationally recognised - illegal migration, but without it we suggested that migration stand. So the job of the police is to control the state border, deal with the movement and residence of foreigners, asylum business, cross-border crime. You say-- irregular migration and readmission. What about regular migration? I think it needs to be erased. It makes perfect sense. I understand the reasoning in the work concerning the security of public gatherings, but if public meetings are approved as public meetings are said, I think so much that the police are obliged to provide them as is said in the members of the second law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46945	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blagoja Bradic together. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46946	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Parliament Presidents, Ministers with Associates, Amendment to Member of the 30th Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS submitted with a desire to make this one-of-a-kind methodological rules. We had a similar amendment to Article 18, and I didn’t understand whether you accepted it or not, but I will read Article 30, which reads paragraph 3 of the Code on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Violences and Other Laws, is replaced by the words: “By the law governing criminal proceedings, the Law governing criminal proceedings and other laws. ” We believe that such a formulation is legally much more justified and allows other laws that are not called in this way or when amending the law that will in some case bear a different name, would not prevent them from applying or, in particular, this article would specify, meaning the application of other laws that regulate this matter. We believe that accepting this amendment would gain much more from the quality of the law we are passing and that it is for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46947	The 30th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46948	Ladies and gentlemen, the two principles on which our amendment, the amendment of the New Party MPs, is based on Article 30 of this bill. Minister Stefanovic, these are the principles of efficiency and ethics of responsibility. In fact, in the last position of Article 30, the way police work is done is determined by sublegal acts, and then when we reach Article 251 of the same Bill, it writes - the sublegal acts laid down by this law will be adopted no later than one year from the date of entry into force of this law. It seems respected to us, gentlemen, that the period of one year is too long for us to accept it here, and we have suggested that the change and formulation in Article 30, the last attitude of that member, and that the formulation should look like this – the way police affairs are done is governed by a sublegal act that must be adopted within no longer than six months of the date of entry into force of this law. It seems to us that, in this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia would send a signal to us from 12 months to six that it is indeed aimed at effective action. This is no longer than a year's worth, in a year's time, respected gentlemen, what can be done, here's how many volumes Mr. Atlagic has brought here, how many more volumes could be brought, to read, to learn, etc. A year is a huge period, and we believe that for the sake of efficiency and ethics responsibility six months is an appropriate deadline, both for the sublegal act concerning the content of this article, so all the members mentioning the sublegal act of ladies and gentlemen MPs, of course, respected guests and guests from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46949	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46950	Just a comment. I've done it in mind, for example. Why? For example, we are now in January of the month, parliamentary elections are coming, your party wins, you become Home Secretary, and then what happens? You won't be able to meet this deadline, because at the beginning of the term, you won't be able to realize it, and then we'll be in a position to be criticized here as a minister. I wanted to avoid it here, I gave it a longer term.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46951	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46952	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased, Mr. Minister, that you are preparing the ground for another minister, which is good, means that you are listening to the voice of the people and I am glad that the citizens of Serbia will have the opportunity to thank you, Prime Minister Vukic and other members of the government for their work so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46953	And now the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46954	... To send you on a shorter vacation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46955	And now the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46956	... For at least four years...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46957	Can you do a little change now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46958	... And that there will come another minister who, within that time limit that you so generously predicted to be a year...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46959	Ambassador, can we talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46960	I was just about to talk about a deadline for the adoption of sublegal documents, which the minister himself said, preparing for another minister after the election, left behind a little longer. Otherwise he probably didn't have these choices, so I understand his words, he would have fulfilled that six-month deadline. I want to thank the Minister for preparing the ground for his successor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46961	Okay, if we can talk about the amendment and the songs and the wishes some other time. Really, please, we have a lot of laws to pay attention to the amendments. Representatives Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blagoje Bradic together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46962	Thank you. As I have already said, our MP group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS has submitted a total of 50 amendments of which 12 have been accepted. This is one of those 12 amendments that we have invested on Article 31 which explains the goal of doing police work and says - police are doing police work with a goal and in a way that provides everyone with equal protection, security, rights and freedom, law enforcement and support the rule of law. We have proposed to apply these words – law and support the rule of law, replacing words – by applying the law and constitutional principles of the rule of law. The provisions of Article 31 are of a declarative nature and they speak of the objectives of the conduct of police affairs and the ways in which they are carried out, which is to ensure that everyone is guaranteed equal protection of the security of justice and freedom. The application of the law cannot be a goal but a means to achieve the stated objectives, and for these reasons we have also submitted this amendment and I believe it is correct that the Government has heard and this amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46963	Thank you. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46964	Just for a little while, it's very important that it was suggested that a police officer resists corruption. The job of a police officer can't be to resist corruption, he simply has to follow other laws. So a cop has to report all cases of corruption. He's as responsible as the one who's offering corruption and I think this is a good thing that you've accepted, and I'm expressing my surprise that someone really suggested that a police officer should defend himself against corruption by resisting it. I don't think anyone's going to attack him that he has to resist, that's the thing that has to be more precise. It's not linguistic, it's essential, whether it's resisting or reporting, it's not the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46965	The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Members of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted together to the 34th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blagoja Bradic together. Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46966	Thank you, Madam President. Article 35 speaks of the protection of rights and the provision of legal assistance to citizens. So it is said in point 2, that a citizen who is threatened by one of the personal or property rights can address the police for the protection of that right if, in a specific case, no other legal protection is provided and if the threat to that right is related to his personal and property security. We're behind the words -- there's no one else who's provided the word -- effective, so now that attitude would be said, that the police for the protection of that right, if, in particular, no other effective legal protection was provided... So, this view stipulates that a citizen who has been threatened by one of his personal or property rights can address the police for the protection of that right if, in a specific case, no other legal protection has been provided and that the threat to that right is related to his personal and property security. We believe that this standard should be complemented in a way proposed by the amendment, because there is a whole series of rights for which a nominally guaranteed other form of legal protection, such as judicial protection, but in a specific case this security right cannot be achieved for objective reasons, for example, domestic violence. We have received an answer for the refusal of this amendment, which says - the government does not accept the amendment because police have no authority to appreciate the effectiveness of legal protection of citizens provided by other state authorities. We are not saying that police should appreciate the effectiveness, i.e. the effectiveness of legal protection of citizens, but we are merely suggesting that our amendment be accepted and that better legal protection is given to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46967	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blagoja Bradic together.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46968	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Ministers with Associates, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, submitted an amendment to Article 37 and provided that, in the position of the 3rd and 4th words, the property is replaced by the word - status. It is essentially done in a term that largely defines what it refers to, so the police officer and police officer with special duties do not prove to official legitimacy their properties, because the properties are properties, but prove their status. When he's in his legitimacy, when he's being legitimate, he's not talking about his qualities, he's talking about his status, and it's been, like, lecturing, practically this member. However, in an explanation, for this amendment, which has not been accepted, the government says - it does not accept the amendment for the reasons for the sublaws to be passed on the basis of Article 9. The law on police to settle the issues that are related, precisely to defining the status. We did not plead to define the status at all, but that an expression that is inappropriate in relation to the status of a police officer should be adequately applied. To define his status through his legitimacy, not his properties. I think the adoption of this amendment would make a qualitative contribution to better status and a clear definition of police status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46969	The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46970	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, a member of the 38th Law speaks of situations in which a police officer will be deprived of official arms, ammunition and IDs, the official badge and the law in this Article 38th paragraph 1 and 4 stipulates that this is done when a decision by a competent medical institution is declared to be a police officer unable to perform the work of a police officer due to illnesses from a group of mental illnesses and disorders on the day of application of prevention to work. Our amendment was to include, in addition to the disease in a group of social illnesses and disorders in the law, the possibility that a competent health care institution might declare a police officer incompetent and in case he suffers from diseases such as may result in temporary psychiatric disorders and whose treatment may result in and has a temporary mental disorder. The government has not accepted this amendment. The explanation that a group of mental illnesses and disorders as such is defined by health protection regulations and is the only legitimate basis for determining inability to do police work. I think this law is the one that determines the inability to perform a police officer's duties and that it may happen that some police officer, as we have said here, is under some treatment for a disease that is not from a group of mental illnesses, has reduced accountability, it is known that in applying certain medicines they cause such a condition, and that in that case, the medical commission can also determine that he is unable to perform the duties of a police officer and that he is asking that, in accordance with this law, so much broader, as we have suggested, he should, before his competent head of arms, ammunition and official badge. In that sense, to be honest, it is not clear why this amendment is not accepted because it is not something that is actually happening in life. There are real medicines whose taking reduces mental accountability and those officers who are under this therapy should be given this law to the Health Commission to issue a solution for them to return to official ammunition, weapons and badges and we find it bad if this amendment is not accepted because the adoption of amendments creates a legal basis for them to be temporarily stripped of their official weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46971	Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46972	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please pay particular attention to Minister Stefanovic since one part of this amendment also concerns the extraordinary parliamentary elections we will have this year, but I will gradually get to that part. Our proposal is for the ministry, Mr Stefanovic, to prescribe and the minister to sign a way of confiscation and return of retained weapons and ammunition, official badges and IDs after the appearance and termination of reasons for temporary prevention of work due to diseases from a group of mental illnesses and disorders. So, the ministry rather than the minister to prescribe, and the minister to sign, for example, Mr Stefanovic, the government submits to the National Assembly draft laws, and the Prime Minister, today it is Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and after the extraordinary parliamentary elections this year, it will certainly be someone else, I believe and new, signing these bill proposals. Of course, this proposal is based on your well-known principle, which we discussed here and in the principle debate, but also today on several of our amendments to some members of this bill, on existing arbitration in this bill. We have given recognition to the promoter for accepting our amendments which increase the accuracy of this legislative project, but we have resented the preservation of arbitration and the preservation of non-transparency. If you would accept this amendment, Minister Stefanovic, you would send us a signal to enter both the fight against arbitration and that it could really be talked about the reform course. There are such terrible doubts about the reform course and the ministers, and especially the Prime Minister. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46973	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46974	I am again because of you first and the National Assembly. Why? If analogy, what you're proposing, came to that, I, in fact, any minister, would no longer have to attend the sessions. Then there would be the Ministry and you would talk to the ministry, and the minister wouldn't have to be there, and that would be bad. So, not wanting to put you in an awkward situation, I didn't accept this amendment and you just take it as a good will. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can you replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46975	He can't. Parliamentarians Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46976	Thank you, Madam President. Our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to a 40th member that regulates the duty of police officers. We have suggested adding a new position on Article 4, which reads: “Extremely from the position of the 3rd member, on the basis of the court's decision, in accordance with the regulation governing criminal proceedings, a police officer may be examined as witnesses and without prior release of the obligation to keep the data. “ The amendment, I think, has been very detailed, and we have called on the Code of Criminal Procedure in Article 93, which states that the exclusion from the duty of testimony, requires that a person who would have been disfellowshipped by his testimony in order to harm the duty of keeping a secret information, until the competent authority, or the person of the public authority, recalls the confidentiality of the information or does not release it from that duty. Furthermore, the court may, on a proposal by the defendant or his defender, decide to examine a person excluded from the duty of testimony. Therefore, in order to create a coherent legal system and bring the Law on Police and Criminal Procedure in line, we believe that this amendment should be adopted. The amendment was rejected by reason that a police officer is required to act in accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Policy as long as the minister or person authorised by him, in accordance with that law, releases him from the obligation to keep secrets. This brief explanation cannot convince us of the correctness of the amendment to refuse, simply referring to the reasoning that we have made with the amendment, that it is necessary to bring the Police Act in line with the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46977	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46978	I think we're talking about two different things here. Article 40 states: “The police officer is obliged to store information that he has come to during police work or to do police work, in accordance with the law. “ Thus, it refers to those data that are degreeed by the code of secrecy and that information, without breaking the law, cannot be made available. So he just can't. And in this section: “Extremely from the position of the 3rd member, on the basis of the court’s decision, in accordance with the regulation governing criminal proceedings, a police officer may be examined as witnesses and without prior release of the obligation to keep the data. ” So he can't give those data to which he's obliged to keep against the laws on documents, on the confidentiality of data, which are degreeed differently. For example, he may have access to information that is a state secret. He can't as a witness tell what he knows about the state's secret until he's released from keeping that information. So it's just in that sense. I understand what your idea is, but we only have two different terms here, two different regulations. Either way, based on the court's order, he'll be released from keeping secrets if the court orders and then there's no problem with this testimony.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46979	The 41st amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic together submitted to the 45th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46980	The amendment we have proposed to amend Article 45 actually changes the position of Article 3 of Article 45 which speaks of the code of police ethics. The code of police ethics is one of the acts to be taken if we remain in what is written in the action plans for chapters 23 and 24, which we hope will be opened at the earliest this year. It's important because it prescribes what's desirable if you're in the MUP. It's not criminal, it's not threatening, it's not with bans, it's like a code for MPs or integrity plan for people in public affairs. It's something we'd like to see be part of behavior, part of ethics translated into morality, like everyone's behavior in the MUP. It's our amendment just to set a deadline for the government to pass the code of police ethics. We felt that 90 days is enough, given the changes already made and the changes in the ministry's rules regarding the chapters that are responsible for the sectors for which the ministry is responsible. We generally feel it is necessary to prescribe a time limit within which the government is obliged to adopt such an act. If you leave it without a time limit, it is more likely to be brought never than to be brought in on time. I'd like to, couldn't change, if the code of police ethics was at least part of the Assembly at some information level. I know it's justifiable -- what you have to get involved in the code of police ethics, but it's just my attitude, so it's good for the police and for this institution and for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46981	The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46982	Thank you, Madam President. This is another accepted amendment by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. In fact, it is a member of the 45th that speaks about the code of police ethics, where the third position says the code of police ethics is prescribed by the government. We have proposed to specify the deadline in which the code of police ethics is adopted. I think that, in the transitional and final provisions, the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts is foreseen, but the code of police ethics is a specific document which cannot be subject to the notion of sublegal acts as general legal acts, and in that sense we have proposed this amendment and of course we have proposed that this deadline be 60 days from the entry into force of this law. It's a good thing the Ministry and the Government had an understanding of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46983	National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46984	Thank you, President. I'll use my five minutes. The Turnover Movement has submitted 19 amendments to the Police Act. The amendment to Article 45 and to the other members I tried on behalf of the Turnover Movement to fix the law in a way that it could be good or useful for police employees, those are living people who should live on their salary, to have their families live on their salary. And on the other hand, that law protects ordinary citizens from the possible unconscious conduct of the police, i.e. illegal but, on the other hand, unconscious, which, we might say, falls within the scope of the custom of morality and is therefore foreseen here in article 45 that the government adopts the code of conduct of police members. What's the issue here for the Turnover Movement? A slow deadline was not foreseen in which the government should bring the code of conduct and good. And, well, you have accepted the amendment of my colleagues to adopt this code of conduct by the Government within 60 days of the date of adoption of this law. I think, Minister Stefanovic, that this is a short term for you. Starting with you being the most inefficient government among the most inefficient governments in the world, you will not be able to pass this code for 60 days. Here, Mr. Stefanovic, that you and I today's discussion take note of ourselves, what I said and what will happen in 60 days. It's taken you a long time for this law, and you're not going to bring the code for about 60 days. God forbid I'm wrong, given what government you belong to, that you're practically the government in the announced resignation, you should have taken care of it, you should have, many people in your government are now looking for an alternative job, because they know you won't be in the ministry, they know that you won't be a minister, or that SNS won't give a minister candidate, and you should have that in mind when you accepted this amendment. That is why "The Turnover Movement" has given sufficient time for a new government to be formed and a code on police behaviour to satisfy both police and Serbian citizens. However, Mr Stefanovic, before the code of conduct of the police must be, and we have taken care of that, a code of conduct adopted by the government members. So, on the principle that government members should be role models, and this is to understand the usual right, these are not imperative norms and codes are not imperative norms that government members should in some way be role models for other civil servants, to call them so, you should first adopt the code of conduct of government members. Don't let a journalist's minister say what Mr. Gasic said and tell anyone anything, nothing. If there had been a code of conduct of government members, that day could have already been concluded that Mr. Gasic had violated the code of conduct and he would have resigned himself, it should have stood in the code. No, you bring the code of conduct of police officers, and you do not act on your own by the code, or by the usual right that it is inadmissible to insult women, mothers, daughters, that it is unacceptable to insult other citizens, Mr Stefanovic. How will you bring the code of conduct to the police when you do not behave in accordance with customs? And you know what the code is, Mr. Stefanovic? Just writing down normal rules, good rules. Nothing else. It's not a real code of the new norm, it's just a code to write down already existing norms that exist in a sector, the social sector, they're recorded and they're not law, but they're very close to the law. But, Mr. Stefanovic, in order for cops to have respect and self-respect, they must have an adequate salary to live on. You can't expect the code to say that a cop should be smiling if he can't feed his family. First, you must give him back the dignity you took from him. You can't write that it should look decent if his shoes are two years old and they're worn out and they need to be replaced. You can't expect cops to be dignified if you make them take pictures with you because it occurred to some reporter that it was a coup in the country. So, you invite all those cops to take pictures with you and what do those cops look like? How their families look at those who weren't in the mask, how they look at those people who didn't have a mask that day. So, Mr. Stefanovic, first code of conduct in the government, then the code of conduct of police. Please accept, or I ask you to accept my amendment, they will not do so within 60 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46985	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46986	Luckily, the cops have new shoes less than a year old, they have new uniforms, it wasn't like that at the time of your government, and then you didn't care, and unfortunately that's when the cops went to pieces, that's when their uniforms fell apart on the street. You weren't interested in that at the time because you belonged to a government that didn't care about cops at all, they weren't interested in what the police were doing or how these people lived or what their working conditions were, or that they had so many armored vehicles, that God forbid someone from Kosovo chased them away, the question is what would they do. That they slept in bases that were so inhumane that it was amazing. Unfortunately, that's how they've looked after the police since 2000, and little has been done. Do we have a magic wand to do everything we need to do? We really don't. I wish I could tell you that in a month or two or three, we're gonna solve all the problems in the police, but that's impossible, nobody can because it requires huge financial resources. No one can do that, but we can start to improve and do that. Of course, the police have to share the fate of their people, if they had governments that owed in such a way, simply if they had governments that employed in the public sector so much that we came to 700, 800 thousand, then at one point it has to stop if we want in a responsible and serious way to talk about the economy of this country. As for the provisions on the code of police ethics, it's very important that police officers don't cooperate with criminals, don't sit with them on rafts with drug dealers and claim to be their schoolmates. I'm sure all the honest and serious cops will be able to fill it no matter what.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46987	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46988	I am pleased, Mr. Minister, because you said what you can and can see, to be seen on the streets of the Republic of Serbia and to see what kind of uniforms the members of the MUP are wearing, doing a very difficult and responsible job. But speaking of this code of conduct, you know, it's easy for the amendmentr to call on the code of conduct of the government, and to call on the code of conduct of the police, or the code of police ethics, but it can't be called to the code of conduct of the MPs, and it's also a folk MP. We've been working on the code of conduct of MPs for a very long time, and too long. We do, because some MPs, that is, part of the parliamentary groups of the former regimes, not all of them, those others who want to work with, and who we work with together, give and acknowledge, and I say, well done, but those others to whom it belongs and the amendment promoter, did not want the code of conduct of the Members of Parliament to be arranged. No, it didn't work out. But that's why they're going to refer to the government code of conduct, so they're going to refer to the code of conduct of the police, everything and everyone, not themselves. Just not the code of conduct of the MPs. We haven't adopted him, I repeat, and we won't adopt him until all the parliamentary groups work on that code. Where's that ethic? If nothing else, then bar, human, normal, normal ethics. On the other hand, the amendment proposed in the same form was adopted and proposed by the second parliamentary group. What I would like to say, referring to the same ethics and the same responsibility, why the amendment promoter when he was a MP and in the Eighth Assembly did not call for ethics and did not call for the responsibility of the then prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic. Let's say, in 2011, when Serbia entered the recession, and had a GDP decline of over 3.5%? Then why didn't he call the government to account? Why didn't he call himself responsible and the government's ethics when 400,000 people were out of work? No, at that time, he was adept at supporting and voting for the government, and now using rude expressions, using things that shouldn't be heard on the street, and let alone in this sanctuary of democracy, when a government, for the first time, called for the responsibility of its member, when a government changed the defence minister for the sake of a spoken word. The first and only time, and this is the government based on ethics and responsibility, which is the government of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS. Now those who supported job loss policy, and not one, not two, but 400,000 people lost their jobs, the unemployment rate went from 13 to almost 26%, all the values were devastated. GDP drop more than 3.5%. This is for the proposed amendment 2008, 2009, 2010. In 2011, it absolutely wasn't worth anything. There was no ethics. There was no code, there was nothing, because it was an integral part of that same government, the government of the irresponsible... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46989	Please, Mr. Granny, return to the amendment. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46990	The amendment, I'll wait for Mr. Becic, Mr. Sutanovac violates the Rules of Procedure, throws from his post...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46991	I wish you had responded when Mr. Veselinovic spoke, who had not had a single word in his amendment that he had submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46992	This Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Stefanovic, as they managed to train and train members of the MUP, are ready to adopt the code of police ethics within six months, and those who are not ready to work on the code of conduct, I think it is better to keep quiet than they will teach us wits here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46993	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46994	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, we, or the Government, have accepted our amendment to adopt the Code of Conduct within 60 days, not six months, as the predecessor said. Criticizing the Assembly for not having its own code. No, because the most responsible for adopting that code in the congregation are doing nothing about it. There are no meetings to discuss the code of conduct of MPs, there is no proposal, there is nothing. He's got nothing but empty stories. Empty stories and a hundred times repeated untrues, about the fall of social products in 2011, when there was no fall. The fall was in 2009, when the world economy collapsed, when Serbia fell 3.9%, but the decline in the surrounding countries was 5%, 6% or 7%, in 2009. In 2015, when there was no crisis in the world as it existed in 2009, in the surrounding countries, that growth is 3%, 4%, 5%, and Serbia is 0.8%. In Serbia, wages in the region are the lowest. Business conditions are the worst and then we listen to the prime minister talking about the economic team. I believe there should be a code that sanctions such statements, that we talk about truths and that we don't deceive citizens, I suppose that's the essence of the behaviour of all civil servants and government members and MPs and civil servants and in this case police officers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46995	Mr. Djurisic, I'd like you to contribute to the work of the Assembly and return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46996	... who will believe in this code have an obligation to speak the truth, not to deceive the citizens, and in that sense I hope and expect from the MPs of the ruling majority who are responsible for what they will do and how this Assembly will adopt that code of conduct for the MPs. We're in that sense ready to work. But in order to work on something, we need to have something to start with, not just an empty story that we need, but that we really do have, as well as a story about reforming the Action Team for reforming a political system that hasn't been working for six months now, because it's supposed to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46997	Mr. Djurisic, I will have to interrupt you, since despite the warning, you do not want to return to the amendment submitted by MP Dr. Janko Vesenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46998	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u46999	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47000	Before Mr. Djurisic according to the Rules of Procedure, given Mr. Babic's discussion, Article 27, Mr. Chairman, let's take it slow now. So, Mr. Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, said the government of the Republic of Serbia had replaced Mr. Gasic... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47001	I ruled you out, Mr. Veselinović, because you are aware that you are violating the Rules of Procedure and that you are now using Mr. Babic's reply to the Rules of Procedure. You can point to me as chairman of why you think I have broken the Rules of Procedure, but you cannot replicate Mr. Babic and interpret the words he has spoken. Is that clear now, Mr. Veselinovic? Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes,) Yes? Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47002	Mr. Becicu, Member of 107, Mr. Becic, you were obliged to react at the time when Honored counterpart Babic said that the government of the Republic of Serbia had replaced the minister in the government. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: As far as I know, no minister has been removed. [[off microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47003	Mr. Sutanovac, if I were to react to everything the MPs say in their presentations say, excuses, I would have to interrupt you 50 times a day. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Well, you interrupt me.) You break up with me all the time. ) Well, I interrupt when you violate the Rules of Procedure, as I have warned Mr Babic, as I have warned Mr Veselinović, and I cannot allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure and use the wording of the Rules of Procedure for the replica to Mr Babic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Has a minister been removed? ) You must do so in your presentation by amendment, to explain the amendment that you have submitted, but you cannot violate the Rules of Procedure, Mr Sutanovac. Thank you for understanding. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What understanding? Put it in the record. There's no understanding. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 46th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47004	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we suggest that we approach the way of conduct, as well as the personal appearance of police officers and other staff in the ministry is prescribed by the ministry and that the document prescribed by the ministry be signed by the minister. We are told by Minister Stefanovic here on an identical argument for our amendments to other members of this bill that if he accepted this proposal, it could lead to confusion among some citizens who could not recognize the term of the ministry of a person or person etc. And according to that analogy, then I wanted to ask either the minister or someone who is a member of the SNS or a national MP here who has decided to vote for this bill, how then we can resolve this identity issue in the event of sending a bill to the National Assembly, because according to analogy offered by Minister Stefanovic, the government cannot direct or submit the bill to the National Assembly, but it must be done by a person, and here, Mr Becic, you are both the chairman now and vice president of the Assembly fine writing – on the front page of the document that we all received here are the MPs. Government pursuant to Article 123(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The constitution submits to the National Assembly a Bill of Police, as the government submits a bill, so the ministry in our court should identify the way police officers and other employees act closer, and as the Prime Minister signs this sending to the Assembly that the minister sign what the ministry has prescribed. I don't know what could be vague and unacceptable, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47005	That is exactly what Mr. Pavicevic, nothing is unclear, the ministry is preparing the law, the government is adopting it, it is referring to the National Assembly, the Ministry or authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47006	It's not like that, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47007	You know very well that's right, Mr. Pavicevic, you're a professor. I beg your pardon, Mr. Schutanovac? [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: We want a break until the minister arrives?]] Don't be nervous. The moment you have the opportunity to speak, the minister will be in the O.R. Dear Sutanovac, we can't work without him. There's a minister, don't worry. Parliamentarians Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comić submitted together to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On Article 48 here, Mr. Sutanovac, he's a minister, like I said here. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: he wasn't.) ) To Article 48... Yes, but you haven't got enough eyes on Mr. Sutanovac. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the law. Like I said, you have a minister. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47008	This amendment refers to a member of the law which apparently was written, Mr. Minister, by your adviser, who came from the Serbian Army. In the Army, he handles the data, and in the MUP he should be available. And pro by those uniforms you mention and those shoes, I'd ask you to take a break, go outside and look at the officer who's been guarding the Assembly, ask him since his jacket was wearing and why he's wearing summer pants because he didn't even get winter pants. So, all those results you're talking about sound great when there's no one to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47009	Mr. Sutanovac, I see that for your sake I must read the amendment you have submitted. In Article 49(3), paragraph 3 is amended and reads – Information on the identity of the person who made the notification shall be considered confidential and shall be made available to them in accordance with the law. And accordingly, I would ask you to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47010	Do you know what it said? Instead of being in the mood, it says, "handling", and the data cannot be handled very well. I explained it, but you didn't follow and you have a tendency and a desire to always interrupt someone from the opposition, and I'm just getting attached to what the minister was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47011	No, I just want to respect what you said in the afternoon debate, that we want to and that you want to professionally talk about this law, rule out politics and explain your amendments. I hereby warn you that you have now deviated from your efforts to speak in the interest of the citizens of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47012	Mr. Chairman, I insisted here all the time, you weren't in the O.R., that we perform here as politicians because these are policy issues. Even with Neđa Jovanovic, I had a debate over the fact that this is a matter of politics, with Vanja Vukic, was it so? So these are the amendments we make as political parties that the citizens have delegated to parliament. So we're not here to discuss something...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47013	Time, Mr. Sutanovac. Use your authorized time now. Thank you. On Article 50 of the amendments, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Academik Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Home, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47014	Dear MPs, chairman of the Assembly, ministers with co-workers, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – The Social Democratic Party has submitted an amendment to Article 50(3), where after the words are "destroyed within a year", they are replaced by the words "to be destroyed immediately after it has been established that they cannot be used in the process and that they have no operational significance and no later than one year of obtaining". The explanation we gave in this amendment that was accepted, just a moment to see, was not accepted in fact. We wanted to redefine within the time period within which the notifications received must be destroyed if they cannot be used in the process or have no operational significance. In the draft law, the deadline has not been set precisely because the start of the deadline has not been set, i.e. the date on which those years start to run and, in spite of that, the time limit may be established before that time limit expires that they are not useful. That is why we believe it is necessary to predict that data can be used, i.e. Destroy even earlier than that deadline that stands out, and thus deny, to say some kind of ballast that exists in the Ministry's files, with which nothing practically can be operated, and just piled up. Furthermore, it also eliminates the possibility of abuse of such data, and we believe that a more cellular solution is as we have suggested. However, the amendment was not accepted for what reason. I think it's more operational that they are destroyed at a time when there is no more meaning for their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47015	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47016	I apologize to the chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, if I may only ask you to allow the minister to hear from me, since this is a very important amendment. Therefore, it concerns who issues a warrant for, say, applying to restrict or prohibit the movement of certain facilities, in certain areas or in public places. The bill says it's done by the minister. In an explanation for which you refuse an amendment in which we say that a police director or chief of police administration, or a person who is authorized by them, may order the police, etc. Ensuring public order and peace and protecting human health and life, it is said to be Article 54. The bill's proposals are not permanent measures, and they are limited by the constitution of guaranteed human rights and freedoms of a larger number of persons, which must therefore be ordered by the organ manager. So, what's an organ manager for you? If it's just a minister, the question arises -- what happens in a situation, say, some elemental car accident, in which the protection tape is to be placed in a certain space, where the passage of civilians is banned, is it possible that it will also be employed by the minister personally? So, I think you're a little out of line here, I don't know what reason. I think this thing has to go down to the lower level, because Mr. Minister, you'll be sitting on the phone all day and calling to ask you, of course, probably, in writing, to allow wherever something happens to prevent a passage, to prevent someone from stopping it, etc. etc. I think it's written really bad. I'm glad you're consulting now. I'd like to hear an explanation. I think this makes it impossible for the police to do their job, because even if there's a blood-sex thing going on, a cop on the street can't shut down space until you order it. I don't see any logic in this that you haven't accepted our amendment saying that the Director of Police, the Chief of Police or a person authorized to order these actions listed in article 51. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47017	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47018	The current law provided for the government to adopt these measures and then it would be questionable, of course, at what speed the government could occupy, bring such a measure and take the realization of it. These are measures taken only in some exceptional situations. It is a temporary restriction or ban on movement in certain facilities, in certain areas or in public places, a temporary ban on housing in a particular area or leaving a specific area. The housing, it can't happen with the Director's decision. What is the political responsibility, and what is the authority that the Director of Police has to prohibit housing in a particular area? And, secondly, the director of the police isn't a thousand people, it's the same face. Then he'll be sitting on the phone all day waiting to hear from him about this tape. So anyway, it's not good. It implements the temporary protection of citizens through their abandonment of a specific area from the facility. It is about emergency situations, very clearly, when there is a threat to people's life or health and evacuations, as we had in Obrenovac, as we had in some other places, and it is just in exceptional situations. At that time, not only the police are being evaluated, but, let's say, at this point, the Emergency Sector, the engagement of material and technical resources, which the director cannot order. He just can't use the Emergency Sector, it's not his responsibility. I understand you, I'm just telling you - you can't do it to protect your health like that. We think it's more cellular to be the Minister of the Interior than the Government compared to the current text of the law that's been in existence for 11 years. We think it will be more operational, and there is a connection with the government, because the minister is a member of the government and informs the government of all these tasks and measures he is taking. Anyway, we think it's better than being a civil servant in a position, better be someone with a higher level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47019	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry, I'm not well interpreted. I just wanted to give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47020	Mr. Minister, article 51 says -- the minister can order the police to ensure public order and peace, and only the minister. So, in all events in Serbia where public order and peace are at stake, where police should act, to prevent the passage... No, well, I understand that you only take out this part of the context about, say, settlements, but it's really bad, because what happens if there's a fire somewhere and the police want that building to be fenced, that it doesn't let anyone pass? I can't outvote you right now. So if a building burns, as it burned down here on Kosovo Street, I guess no one called to ask you if they could close down the street until the fire went out, but someone was acting past you. In that situation, no one can act without getting you, and if everyone calls you for any emergency situation... But that's what it says. Well, who ordered the closure of Kosovo Street when the building was burning across the street? Explain to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47021	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47022	This article is not exclusive to the rest of the law. Police directors, middle, strategic and other levels of police, decide in accordance with this law. This is just a possibility given to the minister in certain situations, when he can see something he can't see for the information he's getting. Of course he can, because the Director of Police doesn't get a report from the Emergency Sector. It's not his job. The police director doesn't get reports from other sectors, from the police, from security structures, which aren't about his work. And the minister can see that the flood wave is going. That thing with the Director of Police has nothing to do with it. The minister then uses the police as an authority, the MUP, to implement public order and peace on the part of the territory. This does not mean that it cannot be done by the Chief of Police under his jurisdiction when he acts in accordance with the law and imposes certain measures on the police. But this only gives the minister a chance in the event of seeing some catastrophic situations, in the event of some ecological disaster, natural disasters and anything, an epidemic, that he may, a fellow health ministry member, tell him that there is a danger of it, that and that, the interior minister estimates and may order the police to take these measures. Well, the minister won't call every cop individually, he'll call the Director of Police to order him and order those measures. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: which member does it say that a policeman can close the street? Well, that's your jurisdiction of the Police Directorate. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: What article does that say? I don't know what exactly a member of the Police Directorate's jurisdiction is right now, but look under police matters, what the police can do. Look what police work and police measures are. The police department is being trained to handle these police matters. The director of the police department is at the head of the department. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47023	Thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47024	Thank you. Article 52 speaks of recording in public places. That's what the first stance says -- police are monitoring and recording public places to do police work. We replaced these words: “For the sake of police work, ” we replaced them with the words:“ For the prevention of committing a crime or a crime. ” In our explanation, it is said, in fact, we suggest that the purpose for which the recording of a public place can be taken is precisely defined. Otherwise, the bill provides for the recording of a public place to be taken in order to carry out police work. Since the circle of police affairs is defined in Article 30. The draft law also implies that, among other things, the execution of other police tasks and tasks set out in the law and the sublegal act adopted on the basis of the law's powers, it means that police can take measures to record a public place for any reason contrary to the purpose of which this measure is being introduced. This broadly defined reason for taking a public filming measure is extremely dangerous, as it opens up the possibility of abuse, and given that this is the measure that is affecting citizens' privacy, the problem is becoming significantly greater. In addition, the bill has a serious lack of data on personality records, so as to ask the question that data is collected in this way, where the warehouse, how are they processed and how are they kept? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47025	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47026	First of all, police can record for control purposes, say, migration flows, border control, traffic control, not only prevention of criminal and criminal acts, but only to see if there is a need to direct police services to speed up traffic flows. But I don't see what's controversial, when, by our laws, every citizen of this country can take a public shoot? Every citizen can install a camera and record a public place, whether by cell phone, whether by camera, at any time any citizen can do it. He can record the conduct of a state and public servant in the performance of his duties, another citizen, unless he violates the Data Securitisation Act in any way. So the public place is a public place and every citizen can film it. I don't see why we're taking away the opportunity for the police to record it, when any citizen can do it? There's no social danger? Excuse me, why would anyone mind shooting? What do we do in public places when we're afraid of shooting in a public place? What were you doing on the street? And what's the secret? What's the big deal? If it is a criminal offence, it will help us to detect the perpetrator or perpetrator of the crime. Anyway, I think we've given this wide enough, and due to the court proceedings being conducted when the footage from those cameras becomes a means of proof. If those cameras aren't meant for it, these cases fall in court and they say -- it's not the camera that was meant for it, this is the traffic control camera, you had no right to use it to record it and that and you in court have no proof. So it's much better for the police to have wider powers in that recording, in accordance with the law, in public places, because any citizen can do it. You and I now have the right to film in a public place whatever we want, as long as we don't violate someone else's rights. But we have the right to record a public place, such as the National Assembly. She's a public place. We're on a direct television broadcast, each of us can use the phone to record the conduct of MPs in the National Assembly, their statements, etc. Of course, the National Assembly can introduce additional restrictions to its Rules of Procedure, but there are no restrictions in public and that is why it is good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47027	The 52nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47028	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate that we stick to the amendments to Article 52, and I will relate to what Mrs. Karavidic said. Minister Stefanovic, we should think carefully about the consequences of this one message that if we are talking about a public place, then we should face the fact that otherwise everything can be recorded, that everything here is allowed and that it is exposed to the public. For example, in Section 2, we still have one kind of restriction on police action, but not enough. It says: “When there is a danger of endangering the lives and health of people and property during a public gathering, a police officer is authorized to record or photograph a public gathering. ” What could possibly be the problem? When he says it here - at a public gathering, it means that there are a number of people gathering. Then this is how I conclude - it means that for the police any gathering can be the subject of this shooting with various apparatus, etc. Then I wonder, is it okay to give these very broad powers, without any criteria, to the police to deal with this kind of thing this way? Let's imagine that at this public gathering, in the context of circumstances, whoever filmed the opposition leader's conversations about how to defeat the existing government, then this information that is being recorded by the abuse, Minister Stefanovic, and that instead of being fulfilled the purpose of what is contained in this article, this bill, this information is actually being misused for something else? It just seems to me that when we talk about the contents of a member, we have to keep in mind what the consequences of the provisions we're going to take. Position three, but attitude two, Mr. Vukic. I'm interested in the minister's opinion now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47029	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47030	Like any citizen, so a member and media representative can record anything at a public meeting declared public, so this law allows the police to protect themselves. Because when something happens, then everyone forgets these words of yours and says, "I'm sorry, why didn't you do everything in your jurisdiction to prevent the execution of the crime?" We just had an hour of debate to allow people to break into an apartment without a court order, to protect someone, and here we're afraid of photographing in a public place. There's a big difference. In this case, we also have the Law on Records, which is now in the European Commission, the Law on the processing of records in the MUP, which will define who accesses the bases, the data, how they are stored, how they are kept, how they are used. Therefore, in any case they cannot be used against the law and according to the existing laws that apply. As for this, I don't think there's any particular danger. If something is allowed to any citizen, then there is no danger of being used by the police, which is the authority of the citizens right now in preventing violence of criminal and criminal acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47031	Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47032	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47033	I find the Government's representative has accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 52nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 53rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blažja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47034	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Vice President of the Assembly, Ministers of Associates, the amendment has been accepted and I want to express my satisfaction. I think it's important for the public to read the amendment and the reasoning of the amendments, because it's something that's, not just a lecturing of the text, but a fundamental change. In Article 53, the words ‘legal persons with public authority’ shall be replaced by the words ‘legal or natural person with public authority’ and the position of Article 2 paragraph 2 shall be deleted. We have explained that in Article 53(1), a supplement is proposed regarding the circle of persons who are authorised to ask for assistance in the execution. We suggest that individuals with public authority be included in this circle, where we were primarily referring to the perpetrators. It is very important to stress this, as well as to delete this position 2, where a one-banalised role of the police is provided for in the draft law that the level of tax in accordance with the regulations relating to services provided by the ministry will be determined for the provision of police assistance. We believe that by eradicating this article, for several reasons, the most important reason, when performing police assistance, is not to do services, but to act. This is one of the police transactions set out in Article 30(2) point 6 – providing assistance in enforcement in accordance with specific laws. The service has already been paid for. So the very term of payment at cost and service is inappropriate to what the police do in a decent and one humane way, and we think it's better to formulate it this way if it's not a service but a duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47035	Thank you. The 53rd Amendment was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Mr. Secretary, would you like to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Minister. You don't want to plead by amendment to the Board? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47036	It is accepted, but it has come to us in the preceding amendment, paragraph 1 and point 2, and in the basic text that we have is just an amendment to paragraph 1, so I'm not sure. No, no, but I'm not sure which of these, which of these two amendments we have in front of us, is in the right form. In one we only have one, to change one attitude, in the other we have a change of two attitudes. I'm not sure. So, we've accepted... What's it say? Can you just read me your amendment? I'm sorry about the dyspression just to clear this up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47037	Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47038	In Article 53, the words ‘legal person with public authority’ shall be replaced by the words ‘legal person or natural person with public authority’. In Article 53(2), paragraph 2 is deleted. So the whole point 2 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47039	Mr. Minister, we have here that amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47040	Yeah. In Article 53(1), the words “legal person with public authority” are replaced by the words “legal and natural persons with public authority”. That's what it says here. That's why I just wanted to check it out, 'cause it wasn't two attitudes with me, but now it's less important for this debate. As for Article 53 of the amendment submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, it is acceptable for us and thank you for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47041	Thank you. I find that Minister Stefanovic has accepted the amendment of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. The 54th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. Members of the 54th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 54th Amendment was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47042	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47043	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. The 55th Amendment was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47044	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47045	Thank you. I find that the minister has accepted the amendment of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee to Article 55. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Dr Blagoja Bradic together. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 56 speaks of providing police assistance to healthcare professionals. Where in attitude one is said police officers respond to a doctor's call. In point 2 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, the following point is added: Paragraph 4 states that if police assistance is provided, the health care institution is required to submit a request. We have expanded this attitude by saying that instead of the word "request" the words "written request is added no later than 48 hours from submission of the oral request". Therefore, if, at the call of the doctor, police officers come and intervene, or at the invitation of the head of the psychiatric institution, they come and intervene, the medical institution and, on our proposal, would be obliged to apply within 48 hours in writing. When I looked at the explanation for the refusal of this amendment, it is simply unclear to me, I see that the explanation refers to the amendments submitted by colleagues Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. Their amendment applies to points 1 and 2 of this Article and this is about point 4. I think accepting this amendment would make this article more complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47047	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47048	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47049	I find that Minister Stefanovic has accepted the amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, thank you. Members of the 57th Amendment include mid-national MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47050	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, on Article 57, we have submitted an amendment to Article 57 of Article 2 to delete, and in point 8 of point 4) to change and to read – a person who has not turned 14 and a minor. The explanation of our attitude is that the amendment proposes that the possibility of a minor subject to a polygraph study be completely excluded. It's the erasure of attitude 2 and then we suggest that a minor be classified into a group of faces that can't be subjected to a polygraph study at all. Polygraphic examination is not credible evidence in criminal proceedings. In addition, minors do not have full business capacity because of the degree of their psychophysical development so that they cannot decide and manage their actions in the manner in which adulthoods do so. In the case of minors, a special law on the determination of their criminal liability and the sanctions that can be applied to them for the execution of criminal offences shall apply. In view of all of this, we believe that the application of a polygraph study should be completely excluded when minors are concerned. This is an interesting topic, given that this polygraph is quite popular in the media. Maybe in a bad way, but if it's a bad way, it's because of those who let something like that talk about it in such a bizarre way. What is very important and what Boris Tadic – SDS insists on is that what is against the law already envisaged cannot be used either in the case of questioning or in the hearing of minors for the reasons that we have stated so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47051	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47052	I see you wouldn't be very good at these terms, what kind of illegal means? Where did you see something illegal? The fact that it's not a means of proof isn't against the law. That's a small difference, but essential. Secondly, I don't know what bizarre way a polygraph is. You know, there are people who are willing to go on a polygraph and those who aren't. That says a lot about each other. But it's a police asset used to direct the investigation. That's what all the world's police are using, because it's giving results. If he didn't give the results, they would have abolished it a long time ago, they would have said, "This is pointless, but it isn't." Second, in this particular case, the consent of the minor and the parents and guardians who are otherwise responsible for him is also needed. So double key. If any of them give up, you can't have a polygraph interrogation. But you have cases, at least we've read about it in the papers, when the kid claims that the other kid was harassing him, beating him, harassing him, and carrying the Stigm for it. He's still out in the media and the kid if there was one on one, no witnesses, no other way out than to subject himself to seeing if he's lying or not. That's when he can help. I gave only one example, but then with the presence of the parents, with the consent of both the face and the parents. I don't see why people are so afraid of polygraphs. I don't see what's so fascinating about that. It's just one piece of evidence, nothing more. That's what you'd say - I'm afraid of police interrogation, I'm afraid of police rooms.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47053	Thank you. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47054	I think you've very simplifiedly interpreted my interpretation of the amendment. First, emotionally immature people, such as children, should rather be subjected to a conversation with a psychologist than a polygraph. Does this mean that you can also have a child who, or a child that you are not trained to determine whether it is lagging behind in the development or with interference in this? So you can apply something that you claim isn't an illegal means, it's okay, but it's not the law that provides for a means to prove something in court. You can fight back, explain whatever you want, but when you're a minor... What you need to hear from him alone or with the consent of your parents. A child that's fully mature wouldn't commit a crime or commit a crime. I don't agree with you, and we didn't want to argue here whether a polygraph or not is a good tool and whether it's used by all the police in the world, but to protect emotionally immature people, like children, that is. minors, where everything is legally foreseen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47055	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47056	Unfortunately, even in this statement, not that you didn't convince me, but you even did exactly the opposite to me. Now I am fully convinced that this attitude we have taken is right. So, what self-examination of minors? It's very clear in the law, so you said it, first you say it bizarrely, so against the law, it's not against the law, it's not proof in court, so now it's self-examination, but it's not exactly on its own, because the law says it's being questioned in the presence of parents. You know, there can't be something out there that doesn't stand anywhere as an argument for something that doesn't exist. It's absolutely impossible. You in this case have a situation that if a minor is questioned it must be in the presence of parents. Parents must give consent, which are otherwise criminally responsible for the conduct of such a person, and that child, or a minor, must give consent. It's estimated if the child has any interference, they're going to go to art and that medically, any other skill will determine whether the child is ready to give any testimony or not. But this isn't against the law, so far it's been in our criminal practice. We're just more specific now. We define more precisely and I don't see what's so controversial about it. But I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47057	Thank you. The 57th amendment with the correction is attended by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 58th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The 59th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusan Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 61st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 63rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Mr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. Thank you. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 69th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 69th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ninoslav Marinković, Ivan Karić and Mr. Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47058	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is another amendment by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party. The amendment refers to a member who speaks of applying authority to minors. We have intervened in several ways, and it is finally good that the government has accepted this amendment. Otherwise, it is undisputed that police powers to a minor are applied by all police officers, and in addition to collecting information in the capacity of a citizen and hearing of minors as a suspect who applies a police officer to minors, we believe that it is necessary to standardise and that a juvenile officer listens to minors and when they have the property of the injured. It's one of our interventions in attitude 1. We also believe that when applying police powers, police officers are obliged to take care not only of the dignity of a minor but also of his psychological and emotional character, as minors are a specific category of legal entities. We believe that the way to apply police powers to minors should be prescribed except for the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, which exists in the member, but also the Minister of Health, given that the specificities of the emotional, mental and other characteristics of minors, and I think once again that it is good that the Government has accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47059	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic and Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 70th amendment. Thank you. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic put together the title above Articles 71 and 71 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47060	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary now to intervene on the occasion of our amendment to Article 71, concerning the application of police powers to persons who enjoy diplomatic and consular immunity. We have put very precisely the content of our amendment, the explanation as accurately as possible, and then we have received the answer that it is not possible to accept this amendment, because the amendment of the People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandra Markovic and Nenad Nikolic, to this same member of the bill. Dear gentlemen, what's happened here, we've never had a situation like this before. This is the first time, I didn't believe anything like this was possible. So, at 9.45 p.m., before the beginning of the session, we submitted this amendment, 20 minutes later, four Serbian Progressive Party MPs submit an amendment that has the same consequences, but in terms of the formulation, it was slightly different said that the amendment would be accepted. I think that, indeed, gentlemen, it would be appropriate now that this is one of the four applicants present here, it is Mr Markovic, to report for the word and to say that he is giving up his amendment, in order to accept our amendment, the amendment of our Members of Parliament who we really read carefully all these legislative projects, we are submitting amendments. The amendments, as you can see, are accepted, gentlemen, and that we really respect some kind of democratic customs and democratic practices, rather than using such tricks, a kind of withdrawal of amendments, in order to reduce or worsen the start-up position of the New Party in the April early parliamentary elections, gentlemen. We'll come across over 10%, I think, and we'll see what happens after April. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47061	That's cute, that's cute. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47062	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think kidnapping is the same as stealing, and stealing is a crime. I would ask the amendment's promoter to continue to sharpen the terms, and without any evidence, it does not benefit, especially because the amendment tabled by a group of SNS MPs is far more comprehensive, far better and that was the reason why the government accepted the amendment proposed by a group of SNS MPs. What I would like to point out is that yesterday was the meeting of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, when we discussed the proposed amendments together with the interior ministry representatives. What was interesting was that they were representatives and MPs and MPs from the ruling majority, that none of the members and deputies of the Committee were present by the former regime. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: How is it not? ) Mr Pavicevic throws it away, which is not according to the Rules of Procedure, but I was very precise - that none of the members and deputies were present, but that he was present by the representatives of the former regime alone... (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: was Vanja Vukic, former regime. ) Vanja Vukic is from the majority. Mr. Sutanovac throws again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47063	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, if you're trying to be funny, don't break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47064	And that, then, Mr Becic, we have come to those amendments that are in the same form, in the same form proposed by both the MPs of the SNS and by the promoters and this amendment. And then, with agreement, of course, my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I said by one gentlemen's agreement – here, I leave, because you cannot accept both amendments, although they are identical, accept Mr Pavicevic's amendment, if they are identical. That's what happened. However, since some percentages of support are said here, I would remind the amendment's promoter that during this call, during 2014 and 2015, not counting this session of the National Assembly in 2016, I proposed a large number of amendments and that 95.95% of these proposed amendments were accepted. The incomplete 96% of the amendments I wrote and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted. I do not want to make a parallel with the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as the amendment promoter does, but in all this announcement of support of nine, ten per cent, as far as it is, there is only one small thing missing, and that small thing is to prove it, that it shows it, that it appears to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it appears alone with its own party, name and last name, so that it can be supported by citizens. That's what SNS proved. We proved it a few days ago. We've proved it literally since our founding. Well, a few days ago, elections were held for the Board of the Meat Community of Backi Monostor. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: what does that have to do with it now? I know that those who earn -- what does that have to do with it now, breaking the Rules of Procedure, of course, are in the way of results, Mr. Chairman. They don't want to hear the court of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that's why they're getting it. They are not answered by the people in Serbia, because they will not and do not want them anymore and have shown that in these elections. Now, you see, in those very elections in Backo Monostor, the citizens of the local community voted and elected nine SNS candidates out of 11 candidates. Now, that's something that's not called amendments, which isn't called any other acts, it's something called the will of Serbian citizens. As a result, there is a huge difference between the amendment and the SNS. We don't do it for theatre, we don't do it for waving hands, we don't do it for one approach and for space on RTS, we do it for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia see the prices as well. They also see the prices exactly with support as we had just a few days ago in the election for the Board of the Meat Community of Backi Monostor. Well, I would also call on the amendment to, before calling for support from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is not measured by the percentage of the amendments adopted, because the percentage of the amendments adopted is only one cultural, normal, decent, civilised dialogue between the ruling majority and the opposition, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament, and that is the victory of democracy in Serbia, and not any of us individually, nor any political option, that if it calls and wishes so much support to the citizens, only one small thing to do, that by its own name and name, the name of its party can run anywhere, so let it be the local community, so let's see what the citizens say about it and its policy, what they say about the impact of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic and what is the difference between that policy and the politics of the fruscogoric vineyards and the subs. Well, to show the difference between fighting for an orderly and decent state and pasture in the Vracar, to say what they think between GDP growth...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47065	Please, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47066	... one clean public finances and all those screwups we had until 2012. The response will be given just like the citizens of Baško Monostore a few days ago, which is to support Alexander Vukic and SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47067	I thank you, Mr. Granny. If I understood well, we have 10% accepted amendments on the one hand, and 90%, on the one hand, nine mandates, and one mandate on the other. Also, as chairman, we get a large number of amendments from the opposition and they're all identical. Are you saying they're copying each other, Mr. Granny? (Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: and the synopsis makes them... I wasn't talking about pasture, Mr. Sutanovac. I thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Better synopsis than pasture. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. I would never change with you, Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47068	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things in the replica of the People's MP, my colleague, Mr. Zoran Babic. First of all, Mr. Babic said that when I say that the amendment was taken, it was the same as if something had been stolen, that some thief had happened there. No, Your Honor, sirs. I choose my words carefully, I measure every letter here. Here, the dictionary of Serbian language says - to take away, and I used those words on purpose, to lamb, to grab something. About what? About the amendment, gentlemen. When's the yagmies grab each other? Four SNS MPs, including Mr Markovic, are now ready for the next session at a low start to wait at the office of our amendment and after 20 minutes to hand it over and accept it instead of ours. Please, gentlemen, it's not a democratic practice, it's not a democratic custom. The second thing, Mr. Babic, I think and rightly, pointed out that if I say so, we're counting on 9.4% support, so that it could be measured here. And I agree, I believe in that result. Well, I'm trying here. I'm dedicated, I mean a hardworking MP. I believe that many SNS voters now that they are watching say – well, I would vote for this man, both for honesty and for other things. But when I think of one thought that, for example, in association with DS, for example, we can imagine, we can have 30%. Well, somehow, gentlemen, it's more tempting to me at this point, it seems to me, as something more tempting, a greater number of MPs, a stronger influence, creation, politics and above all, respected gentlemen, advocating what the system is, the idea of believing values and the opinion that I'm fighting for here and through our discussions in the National Assembly. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47069	Time, thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. According to the Rules of Procedure, but you need to sign up, Mr. Atlagic. Here you are, Dr. Marko Atlagic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47070	I'm referring to article 107 of dignity. Dear Vice President, I call on Mr Pavicevic to apologize for misquoting. I'm gonna get up now. I'm reading correctly, page 244 "The Dictionary" of Serbian Mothers, Novi Sad, I'm sorry, book four, because he has a book one, and I have six here, and we can, there's a dictionary with 19 books, and this is how it says: "The kidnapper – the kidnapper – the one who kidnaps, by force adopts someone else's, the conqueror, the kidnapper," page 244. Dear citizens, here is a book, one of its own, and it can include linguists and professors of Serbian-Croatian language, or Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47071	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word has a People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica, and a National MP, Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47072	What I would like to point out and what I think should be the goal of all of us, which is a better legal solution, to improve the laws that are ahead of us. What has been done by the amendment of the group of SNS MPs, by accepting by the government of the Republic of Serbia, is identical to what Mr Pavicevic's amendment would do, with the amendment proposed by my colleagues and colleagues being more inclusive and better, but the solution is identical. We try, not to fight for percentages, we try to make our actions better laws, not by mixing grandmothers and frogs and calling for certain percentages of accepted amendments. That's not our goal, is it? Our goal is better law, and our colleague's offer to the SNS voters, I see and I understand and accept it, as if the SNS had been offered. Since I've seen some, because the New Party belongs to that winery party, to a party of people who weigh this kind of wine, home wine, produced either on Frust Mountain or anywhere else. But I almost saw a photograph on social networks, a fellow amendment promoter with a beer bottle in his hand, and I already see a gap there, and that's why the expansion of the amendment promoter is being offered to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47073	Time, Mr. Granny, thank you. Mr. Babic, Mr. Sutanovac warns that you've overstepped your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47074	Thank you, one sentence only. Mr. Pavicevic, old Mercator, third floor, Palmir Tolya Street, that's SNS headquarters.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47075	Thank you. You are right, because your name is mentioned, Mr. Pavicevic, but you must wait for Mr. Markovic to use his right to reply. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can one replica.]] Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47076	I thank the chairman, I am not angry with all the insults we have heard before, but this situation is the paradigm of everything that has been going on in Parliament in the last two years, that is, during this term. So, if we were both right this morning and all the time when we point out that the proposer of this amendment only cares about statistics, the only thing that cares about the promotion, the advertising of the amendments, is this anger and anger over the situation in which its amendment is not accepted. So, it is not my fault that our amendment, therefore, is the amendment of several SNS MPs, so, among other things, Mr Orlic, Mrs Stojkovic, Mr Nikolic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47077	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, allow your colleague to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47078	More cellular, more meaningful and more complete. That's not my assessment, that's the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I'll remind you, that yesterday we were at the Committee's session when the Committee was in such a position. Now, frankly, Mr. Chairman, if I had known that we were going to cause this kind of anger and anger at the promoter, here, I admit that we might not have written that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47079	I thank you, Mr. Markovic, but I think you are wrong, we see a smile on Mr. Pavicevic's face ever since he was offered an SNS access. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47080	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the New Party is, I think, the most consistent opposition to SNS's performance on Serbia's political scene. The policy conducted by the SNS in the last three and a half years couldn't have my support. I'm with terrible arguments, discussing it here and here at the National Assembly sessions. We'll keep doing that. That's one thing about Mr. Babic's replica. The other thing, Mr. Babic said here earlier that he had one photograph, it's Minister Stefanovic, it seems Mr. Babic knew what some of the provisions of the Police Bill would look like. There's a photo taken, there's a recording of something, and now I'm drinking a beer in that photo. Well, gentlemen, it is, drink and beer, drink and wine, honored gentlemen, what happens, but I have noticed in this year and eight, nine months, that Mr. Babic, indeed carefully, investigates my biography thoroughly. He deals with what kind of drinks I drink, what sports I do, what happens in college. I gave Mr. Babic the team in the occasion of last year the first to make new contributions to the biography of Joseph Broz Tito, written by the famous 20th century biographer, Vladimir Dedier. That's when I told Mr. Babic that I was giving him the blessing of doing the same research on my biography as Didier was doing with Tito. Now I give Mr. Babic another of these new contributions to continue to explore, thoroughly to investigate what I do in my life. I hope that the result of this research will be this much more the covert edition of Vladimir Pavicevic's biography. Well, that, gentlemen, would be a great pleasure. Mr. Granny, another book for you. Thank you, gentlemen. Should I hand Mr. Babic the book right away?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47081	Don't, Mr. Pavicevic, even though you made me sad, I didn't deserve it during this term to give me a book.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47082	I'm preparing a gift book for you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47083	The word is Mr. Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47084	Since we have seen, or heard from the previous speaker that he consumes alcoholic beverages, I will be very brief, invite him and appeal to him not to just sit behind the wheel after that, because only then will he have and only then will he be interested in the police and the judicial authorities, and until then he is interested in some other fans who want to present him in something different light. And for the police, like all of us, we're interesting when God forbid one or more cups we sit behind the wheel and risk other people's lives as well as our lives. I call on Mr Pavicevic that when he consumes alcoholic beverages not to sit behind the wheel, others drive him to avoid risking his and other people's lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47085	Don't worry, Mr. Granny, I don't think his colleague wants to leave him the wheel. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would be happy to receive this gift if there is anything from Jovo Kapičić, founder of the Glog Island, since the amendment promoter and Mr Kapičić share a common value from the LDP. That I think would be more authentic. As far as this amendment is concerned, I must say that the amendment that has been accepted is more complete, has two attitudes, two actions. The first action is a police official procedure for diplomats in a way designed for international contracts. It's the first store. The second action informs the direct manager, and the elder, and that is the accepted solution. The amendment that we do not want to accept contained only the first one, so the diplomat does something wrong, and the policeman acts on international contracts, there is no obligation to inform the elder, therefore, there is no knowledge about it. For these reasons, the amendment of the Group of Members of the SNS was most likely accepted, not for some other reasons. About plagiarism, an opposition that has so many times plagiarized its amendments in several parliamentary groups, in several groups of MPs to gain time, should not talk and I appreciate that it is because of the use of time to plagiarize one another, but I must say that it is also not academically congratulating, if the amendment promoter calls for academic honesty. And in the end, as a percentage, those 9.5 or 10% will be, but there is a folk proverb – when they produce grapes on the willow, and may never be on the saints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47087	The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 71st amendment. Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47088	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47089	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment to Article 75. The board. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Thank you. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Thank you. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47090	I would ask the chairman that, when colleagues talk about plagiarizing, to draw attention to the interior minister and that he knows best how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47091	Please don't try...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47092	Therefore, in Article 80(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Can I help you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47093	Please return to the amendment and speak by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47094	So is it possible that everyone here was talking about plagiarizing, copying, kidnapping of amendments, a rag of law, they talked about everything for 15 minutes, they were reading the dictionaries, calling out what, and now you're talking to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47095	While you were at that time, you were throwing Mr. Sutanovac all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47096	I asked you nicely do you want to courteous this session and return the subject to the agenda? Even at one point you said, you would never change with me? Well, who offered you that? Who offered you to trade with me, man?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47097	Mr. Sutanovac, I said I'd rather and I could say some lapus...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47098	So you're saying lapus, not lapus...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47099	... But not to steal some pastures or anything. Mr. Sutanovac, in that context, I said he would never change with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47100	You wouldn't trade with me? So who asked you that, man? I don't understand. You're giving yourself the right to comment on everyone here from a place you don't work with. Get Mr. Arsic to show you how to conduct the session of parliament, gentlemen, fine, without argument, argued...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47101	I had a teacher, Mr. Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47102	Yes, the Sheik you had, I know that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47103	... Your vice president, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47104	I know you, Mr. Becic, when you were a gun. So, the face that's found in the apartment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47105	I see you're happy, Mr. Shutanovac? I'm saying, I can see you're happy. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47106	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47107	Would you like to take another break, Mr. Sutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47108	I don't know what you're alluding to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47109	I see you're happy and you're funny, that you want to change, so you don't want to change...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47110	Mr. Becic, I need you to admire yourself here today both physically and mentally. Physically, because I didn't get out of the O.R. once, and mentally, as always.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47111	Mr. Sutanovac, I don't think it's like Parliament's dignity to speak with your hand in your pocket and thus address the National Assembly. Thank you. Time's up, Mr. Sutanovac. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47112	So, in Article 82, as well as in Article 80, Mr. Minister – the person in the apartment can be called in between 8 and 22 hours. Why did I suggest eight o'clock? Well, people, it's totally unacceptable that you send cops to be both women and children in the morning, to bring people in with handcuffs, so they'll be released after a while. Keep in mind, you were just talking about constitutional rights, etc. For what? Who leaves the D.A.'s office at 8:00 in the morning? Give me the stats. Do you know from this action of yours, "Slicer", this "stupid cutter", how many people and when they went to the prosecutor's office? Do you know that there are people waiting until 11:00 p.m. to go to the D.A.'s office, and they were brought in at half-six in front of the cameras and in front of the family. Why is that? Because it is a good recording, so that the handcuffs of the people may be placed on the hands of you, so that you may show it, and be glorified, and behold. That's not done, sir, especially with people who accuse themselves of crimes that are all in documents. So we suggested that we do it from 8 to 22 hours, for one reason, because I don't think it's right for parents who have underage children, who are obviously victims, because they're released, that children attend such activities. If it's a special situation, I totally understand. A special situation is a special situation. We were just talking about how we can't get into a house and that a bully in a family who beats up a woman, we bring her in because we have, I don't know what we have as a distraction to do, and the interference is in us, not in the law, not in the Constitution, but we don't want to do it, because we obviously protect someone's interests. Then how can we get people into the house at six in the morning and bring them in, and then we know that after the shift, I don't know when the D.A.'s office starts, when there's a shift at the police station, and why? There's only one reason to make one complete mess, to panic the family, to panic the children, to create an atmosphere where someone has already been blamed or convicted. This is a very serious matter, Mr. Minister. This isn't about opposition and power. This is a thing for those people who are innocently brought in, and there are so many.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47113	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47114	Is someone innocently detained, the court decides. Who will be detained, decides the prosecution and gives orders to the police for detention, and those who have committed crimes should be concerned, they, for their wife and children, why do they expose them to the fact that these people have sinned against the law, that they are suspected of the most serious acts of corruption, of the most serious crimes, I do not know that any honest citizen of Serbia has ever come? Those people who have reason to worry are those who brutally violated the laws of this country, who are trying in various ways to explain it, and only when we see scenes like that "Hetherland" in New Vienna, where you have a ruins from a building, where there's no roof, there's nothing, a broken building, and there's a million and 200,000 missing, and just let me explain it. There are no million and 200,000 euros, and we have a wreck from the building and if it's legal and if that's okay, if that's what we need to do and if we stand up for that policy, then it's clear to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47115	On what basis, Mr. Sutanovac? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am an authorised promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47116	Mr. Stefanovic, I will mention only one name to you, Borislav Novakovic, released of all charges, released by the time he was brought in, released from all charges, the prosecution dropped out. So, two objects. First set free, and there's a dozen people and you just tell me who's convicted? Give me the name of the one who was convicted, so let's go on that basis, and you just talked about how we can't bring in the thugs in the family, because the court will set them free. What about the ones you're arresting, and the court releases them?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47117	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47118	Fortunately, none of these have been since I was interior minister, including in the case of Mr. Novakovic, who is suspected of corrupt acts in the case of the Bulevar Liberation, the case is in court. He was not released for this case and is tried in that case. None of those people who have been arrested since I've been Minister of the Interior have been released by law, nor has his indictment been dropped, nor has he been released for one. So we're seriously doing our job and we know what we're doing. The prosecution is the one he's checking, and I'm sorry if there's been any arrests, so he's been dropped later. It shows that at that point, that job was not done well, and I completely agree. Since I've been Minister of the Interior, there's been no acquittal. I wish there was a verdict at all, because both the liberating or the convicts, I'm sorry that the courts don't do the speed we'd all love, because that's also for those people who are accused, who are suspects means something, and even if convicted, they'll move faster to upholding the crime, upholding the sentence, or if they get rid of it, they'll get rid of all the charges and their lives will change for the better. So I'd like the courts to do their job better, faster. Maybe what I'm saying is I'm getting involved in the work of the courts, I don't want to. So, let the courts work, but I'm glad the police have those people arrested since I did my job professionally.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47119	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The 83rd amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Dr Blagoja Bradic together. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 85 speaks of the rights of the person to be brought in. We predicted that Article 85, paragraph 2 should be deleted. Otherwise, Article 85(2) provides for an exception to the rule that a police officer is required to have a person who brings in before bringing in, in a language he understands, learns about the reasons for bringing in, the right to inform the family or other persons as well as the right to defend himself. The exception implies that a police officer may meet a person with rights only after bringing him in, and that is, if circumstances in a specific case indicate that this could jeopardise the achievement of the legal objective. So it is a discretionary assessment of police officers and it opens up a space for abuse and for the most harsh restriction and threat of citizens' rights to be familiar with basic rights before they bring it themselves. This case may later depend on the entire course of a possible procedure - did the police officer correctly assess the circumstances in and accordingly acted correctly, that is the question? Has the citizen's right to be informed of his rights been violated, has this affected his position in a possible procedure and so on? If it is necessary to establish a certain exception to the rules, it must be precise and so defined that it does not allow any broad interpretation or discretionary treatment. In the rejection of our amendment, your answer is that the amendment is not accepted, because the government believes that in cases of urgent interventions that do not suffer a delay due to the threat of life or the health of a person, the person who is being brought in, who poses a threat to life and health, will be familiar with his rights when he removes the danger. I would really like Mr. Minister to explain it a little bit better, so this explanation extends to me and convinces me that there will be no abuse of this Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47121	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47122	I accept this amendment. My colleagues have had some cases, but I think all these cases can be resolved in the process of bringing them in. So, after bringing the person in, after securing the person, in the sense that he is a greater threat to himself or to others after that, and before bringing him to the police station or to the prosecutor, we can give him a reason for bringing him in, and we fully accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47123	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find this amendment accepted. The 86th Amendment was submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47124	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47125	Thank you. I also find that the minister has accepted the amendment to Article 86. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted to the 88th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party has submitted 50 amendments and this is already, if I am not mistaken for the 15th or 16th amendments. During the session, the minister accepted, I think, three of our amendments. I can only show satisfaction that our amendments are carefully read. Of course, they're not cosmetic, they seem to be, in some cases, essential. Well, once again, I think this is a good sign that the opposition in this House is at least listening to something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47127	Thank you. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of the title, title and Articles 90a and 90b. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 92th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the amendment to Article 96. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 107th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 109th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 112. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47128	Therefore, Article 112 regulates the use of electromagnetic agents. We have suggested changing attitude 3 and it is now said: “Electromagnetic means can only be used in situations where there is a real and direct risk of life or danger from serious injuries and where less dangerous means of coercion cannot be used. ” We don't think the logical explanation you've given to be used from less or less dangerous to more dangerous. If explained, then we need to stand this one out, or you could just put the electromagnetic assets used in accordance with the use of all other means used as means of coercion. I don't think the crown will fall off your head if you accept this. This is a matter that, I think, regulates one matter that first appears in our legislation, and I believe that in no way threatens, but rather, this amendment contributes to this part being more quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47129	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 114. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47130	This member is very interesting. If you allow only one second, the original Article 114 states: “The means of binding can be used to prevent attacks, resistance, escape or self - treatment of the person. ” We have given an amendment that says: “The means of binding can only be used in the event of an attack, resistance, escape or self - injury to the person. ” What does that mean? What's defined in the bill doesn't mean that's all it is. I'll remind you that the police have recently, and it has happened before, if you allow me, here's a one, some 2004, 2005, we've experienced that the legend of sports football, Mr. Dragan Djajic being arrested with handcuffs, and he certainly didn't want to prevent, to make an attack, to resist, to escape, or to self-inflict. So, by avoiding you putting this into the bill, Mr. Minister, you're just telling us that you're going to continue with the practice of bringing people in with, uh, colloquially speaking, with handcuffs, without a basis that says... Here, Markovic, you threw me something, so I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47131	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't argue with the MPs. I'd react at that point. Keep up the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47132	Very interesting, Mr. Becic, as you look at the right ear, you hear weaker, so you only react to the left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47133	I hear very well from the left and right, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47134	You can turn your back on us and hear the other side. So, Mr. Minister, if it stays as you suggested, it doesn't serve anything. It doesn't serve anything, because it means someone can wake up at six in the morning who's with the family, you're happy and happy to finally find him at the apartment where he lives, or whoever was at your place the day before yesterday, making a statement, wait for him at the elevator exit, cuff him, the cameras are on, the lighting's going. The one who bangs and says -- now, he's coming out, and there he is, on the first program, whether PINK, RTS, or wherever. Where is it, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47135	Time, Mr. Sutanovac, I thank you. You no longer have the authority, Mr. Sutanovac, to use all the time and MP groups and authorized. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47136	From 2000 to 2012, we watched these films very often, except it was on all the TVs and it was in all the media, and with the same headlines, because one hand ran it, called those phone numbers of editors, knew those who were invited, knew who invited them, from which cabinet. They know the name of that person, too. There's also a shortcut, and there's a nickname. They called and dictated what to write. As for that, we had a little over five years ago situation that they hadn't put handcuffs on their faces and that face killed a cop. You know, who's going to go into that family with that cop's kid to tell him -- bap great that your dad or his buddy didn't put handcuffs on this face, because if he did, maybe that cop would be alive today? Now, that's the social danger cops face. We can't complain at some point about their shoes, about their pants, and then when they're doing the job, let's not do anything. We've been watching those scenes of the American police, they're putting that link on their hands anyway, every one of them. It protects the lives of its officers, protects the lives of police officers. We're trying to protect the lives of Serb police officers. The person who's being detained and suspected of committing any crime, we don't know what their behavior will be, when the police bring them in, maybe decide to run away in the process, maybe decide to attack a police officer, maybe change their mental status, better have handcuffs, or binders. That's how we protect the lives of the cops who do this job. It's gonna take a while to get to the police station anyway, no big deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47137	Thank you. You're not mentioned, Mr. Sutanovac. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Can I replica?]] (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: Chairman, it doesn't make sense, so we're having a discussion about things... There is no mention of the DS, nor of you personally. I'd pray we don't go into controversy with you anymore. Here, you have the right to a replica, although you have no right to do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47138	Mr. Minister, what you're saying is that I can fully support it, but not in a situation where it says so. Then it should be said – the means of binding are used in all situations, and point. How does a cop judge today? Well, we have a situation that a member of the board in front of the SNS has been detained with his hands in his pockets, and a DS member is being detained by a handcuffed camera. To convince me that a member of the DS is a man who tried to attack, resist, escape or self-inflicted, and that a member of the SNS is not, it can't. Here, give space completely unnecessary for a policeman to make his own decision about what he's going to do, and in fact it doesn't say anything, because objectively, what you're now telling us as an explanation means that everyone can be handcuffed, because it's the unpredictable behavior of everyone. Well, here's our chairman, the unpredictable man, nonstop, you can't catch him listening or not listening, reacting. I'm here to honor myself only in these cases, and have a policeman do it, even if he's wrong, he can explain it. To be very precise, the DS has never run a MUP, ever. (Wanja Vukić, from the town: Only from the shadows. ) So, Mr. Representative of the former regime, Mr. Vanja Vukic, who forgot, means when Cvetkovic and Djajic were arrested, handcuffs were placed on the hands of people who are 65, 70 years old to make a show media. For what? Mr. Cvetkovic was even held in his apartment so the camera could arrive. There's no reason. People, only in these cases that are precisely defined and supported, or write – in all cases, so put handcuffs on everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47139	Time. Here, I promise you, Mr. Sutanovac, I will make a personal claim that there will be no fox in one case. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47140	I will again, as in the debate in principle, remind Mr. Sutanovac that he is right that they never led the MUP, that they did not want to take responsibility, that they had their officers, their inspectors, their private investigations, which later led to acquittals for some who were arrested for political responsibility. So, since 2000, DS has never had a minister of the interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47141	Thank you. Whose exposure, Mr. Sutanovac? [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Can I replica?]] (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: Mr Vanje Vukic's exposure, who said the DS had private police officers. There you go. You've recognized each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47142	I didn't recognize myself, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47143	The Democratic Party is mentioned, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47144	The Democratic Party is mentioned. I didn't recognize myself. Don't tell me that. So, Mr. Wolfie, who are these private police officers, DS? Here, be kind, stand up and tell us and the public and everyone that we finally know who these people are. About five days ago, you told us that they couldn't set up commissioners because DS wouldn't allow it, and now we hear we had our officers. Fully false, I can document it for you. I ask you to stand up now and say your name and last name. If it's Veljovic, set in time more Dragan Jocic, right? If Milovic is, the same is set at the time of Dragan Jocic. Who are the DS officers who conducted the bad investigations, who ended up with acquittals? This is also very important to me, as Minister Stefanovic thinks all investigations conducted have been completed by court rulings that are not liberating. Otherwise, Mr. Stefanovic, and the mayor of Major and Mayor of the Kings and Mayor of Nis, everyone is freed. It has nothing to do with you. Going to the field has nothing to do with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47145	Thank you. Anyone else by amendment want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the fact that someone has been detained by the prosecution, and has not been convicted, doesn't even have to be proof of innocence. This could be evidence of the former regime's further guilt over judicial reform, so judges from their party will not condemn those who have placed them from the party. But to get back to commitment, let's say, I say, that binding is, I say, I can use it, so I don't have to, and let's say, there can be self-inflicted and, say, someone planted the building on the pasture, and they can plant one floor, and on the roof plant another building, and now there's an investigation and the prosecution can get a warrant to bring the police into the pasture, see that the building was planted, that another building was planted, that there was another building, that went up, rang up, and had to assess whether that face could, at a time of detachment, upset, which was found, caught, etc., to be suicidal. Maybe he won't attack a cop, maybe he wants to self-injure himself, maybe he won't be tried. In such situations, the police, elders, must assess whether a means of binding is needed, whether it is a means of coercion necessary or not. That's why I think Article 114 is precise and it gives the police the right to do it, and it doesn't have to, but let's say if they estimate that there's some danger in that pasture for them or for whoever they came for, they're bound to apply it to avoid self-harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47147	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Ivan Karic and Mr Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic together submitted to Article 122. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted the 124th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 124th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Thank you. Members of the 129th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47148	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we propose that in the last position of Article 129, the formulation should be the following: "The rules and the way human resources are managed by the ministry," not by the minister as suggested by Minister Stefanovic. Minister Stefanovic told us he could not accept this amendment and would stick to arbitration when we judge the content of this bill, despite our strong argument that it should not be so, and called for the minister to represent the ministry under certain regulations and that the minister adopts certain regulations. Dear Mr. Stefanovic, and if you accept our amendment, you will continue to represent the ministry, and the ministry may, in accordance with these regulations, adopt these regulations. You, Minister Stefanovic, asked during the debate today – what would make sense if some ministry were now adopting or bringing, so it's not some face, we're going to confuse some people? Then I wonder – does Mr. Wolf bring us all almost daily into confusion? For example, Minister Stefanovic, when we receive a bill in the Assembly, it does not write to us – the Prime Minister submits to the National Assembly a Bill on Police, but is very precise – the Government, on the basis of Article 123(4), submits a Bill on Police to the National Assembly, and then, Mr Stefanovic, in the right-hand corner of the President of the Government. According to this analogy, we suggest that the ministry adopt these regulations, and you, as a resolute minister, put your signature in the right place, and thus send a message to all citizens of our Republic that you are not in favour of arbitration when we talk about the provisions of the Police Bill that we are discussing today in the amendment debate, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47149	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47150	There's only one, you might say, small but significant difference. The government is a collective organ. So the government consists of several members who can participate in the decision-making process, so whose vote is equal in the decision-making process. The Prime Minister represents the Government, but the government is a collective body. The Ministry is not and therefore the Government can authorise any member of the government to represent her. Today, I am an authorised representative of the government within the meaning of this law, although the Prime Minister has signed and sent this law to the National Assembly, and the Prime Minister can at any moment give authority, or the Government may have the authority of another member to represent this law. It's impossible in the ministry, and that's why I'm in front of you today. If possible, I could have authorized one of the Secretary of State or Secretary Todorovic, who was veteran in these assembly discussions, and sat down and talked to you instead, but that's impossible, because I am the only one authorized in the name of the ministry to represent him and so is the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47151	The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47152	Thank you, President. I've been thinking about whether to report to these amendments, where the minister is allegedly denied authority, but these kinds of amendments can suggest someone who has no experience in managing any state authority or at least in the work of a state authority. In fact, I fully agree with the interior minister that the government is a collective body. The government makes the decision by voting. The government has passed a decision, and that's the government's decision. On the other hand, the question arises -- how could any ministry, in particular the MUP that counts a huge number of people, offer tens of thousands, make such a decision? Is that the way? I haven't heard today at all, not even in a debate in principle, what is this way that the ministry would make any decision in that regard? So, is that by voting, is it the ballot boxes, so everyone votes and then the ministry makes a decision? Is that the secretary of the ministry, the secretary of state or anyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47153	Parliamentarians Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic together submitted the 131st amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47154	Dear Mr. Minister, the esteemed representatives of the MUP, this is an amendment that applies primarily to the standards of police officers. I believe, Your Honor, when you now consult with your colleagues, they will still let you know that we can't treat police officers the way you suggested in the law. We suggest that in the event that professional training is realized at a distance greater than 75 kilometers, it is the order of the size of an hour drive, from the place of residence of the employee or in case the employee is obliged to attend the full-day presence at the place of professional training of employees in the ministry during the period of professional training has the right to accommodation, nutrition and 20% of the daily living room, which is today, as far as you've given the daily, 30 dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, who advise him, I see he's turning towards you, I think this is something that's good for cops. So if a police officer comes from Nis to be perfected in Belgrade, if he doesn't get an apartment, accommodation and food, if he doesn't get those 30 dinars, how do you think you're perfecting it? That he travels from Nis to Belgrade every day while he's perfecting? It's absurd. This means that we will perfect those who are in Belgrade's pasture and no one else. So don't treat these people like mere labor, which you don't care about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47155	You missed the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47156	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47157	Yeah, 100%.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47158	No, I'm not 133.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47159	We got to 132, there's a couple more pages to that 133.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47160	I apologize to you really, I have a problem hearing you all the time. You guys shut up, and then I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47161	That's my nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47162	Mrs. Mayo, this isn't the first time, and a colleague also spoke about an amendment that had just come to the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47163	No, no, but then you won't talk when he comes. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47164	I just asked your colleague who he is, so I haven't heard of 131.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47165	It's no problem, just finish it, so we won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47166	You interrupted me in my inspired presentation. So, I spoke nicely, I mean, in the interest of all those police officers and the state of Serbia, who want to educate those officers, to provide them with accommodation, food and 30 dinars, I guess, like that for a chocolate banana...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47167	Thank you. Time. I've extended my time. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47168	Let me tell you, in a situation where the country faces economic consolidation and we try to live after many years from what we really earn, and not what we borrow, we have provided these people with accommodation and nutrition, which is very important. I'm sorry, those men who go to professional training have their own salary. They have their salary and they have their own accommodations, food, wages, because at that point of professional training they don't do their job, and they get paid, they also have 20% of the daily living. In 2008 or 2009, the National Assembly gave up diaries. So the MPs then realized that they should not receive journals because it is more than the state can endure, even if it is symbolic. So, someone who wants to improve, so by perfecting it, we give him a way to progress, because it's one of the conditions in career advancement, we give him the opportunity, we invest in it in fact, because someone pays for that professional improvement, and in a situation where the country has to, above all, to think about what is vital interest, I think that the difference is whether his diary is this big or that big, someone who truly wants professional training is not a condition. People used to go without anything. They didn't get anything, so they went to perfect themselves because they knew they'd need that knowledge to advance in the profession so they could take the appropriate leadership positions in the MUP. I think the real one's interest, the one who goes away because of the living room, is better off not going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47169	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47170	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. I'm willing to vote for this amendment, but I don't know if I've heard well, schooling in Belgrade's pasture or pasture, if it's pasture, then I'll vote. Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. He gave me a chance. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47171	Just one thing to make it clear to me, whether it's 132 or 133. (Dear Sutanovac, from place: 133.) What do we do with this 132? Let's go over there and get to 133. I'll give you my word right now, just procedurally, please. Members Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic put together the amendment. So there's no one. The amendment was submitted by Dragan Sutanovac to Article 133. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47172	Mr. Minister, it's not an unknown thing for cops in the world to pay for certain training, if they want to advance, to be part of some training that even the United States doesn't pay for all the training to their officers. So, when you define yourself to be making progress, you have to take a little bit of your budget out of it, but from what budget to separate the people you've cut their wages to, reduce their daily living, bring them to the brink of existence? How and where does it say in the law that you said that you provide accommodation and food? I don't see it anywhere. We even put it at 75km, in terms of how far it can travel, because it travels around Belgrade for an hour. You know that. But it doesn't say that anywhere in the law. Tell me which member and I have no problem. As it's written, people who are in school don't follow anything, and the journal as such, I totally agree, is a miserable thing. I'm talking about 150 dinars, 20% is 30 dinars, it's really totally pointless. And as for the pasture, which gentlemen, the sheep of the pasture, I have a complete understanding of it, and I'm always ready to point it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47173	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47174	All members of the police who usually come to school, usually performed where they live, so in the police departments where they belong, but where they come, and most often they come to either the primary police training center or the criminal police academy, there are boarding schools, police hotel and accommodations in which we put them. So these people don't carry that kind of cost because we're fully aware that they wouldn't be able to pay hotel accommodations for training that lasts a month. It's just impossible. It doesn't have to be in the law. So we're trying to adapt to the opportunities that the police can provide at a certain point, as the country's economic power grows, which I'm sure it will, we'll improve the conditions for the police. So that's something we can work on and we have to work on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47175	Together, Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted to the amendment. The 134th amendment was submitted by Zoran Babic. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS jointly submitted the 134th amendment. The 135th amendment was submitted by Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47176	Mr. Minister, this is an amendment that has been contacted by a large number of former and current KPA students dissatisfied with the proposal you made in the bill of law, under which they are treated as graduates of some Megatrend University, where it is easier to doctorate than to finish the KPA. I think that if you introduce a sector for human resources, if you're planning personnel and needs to make so-called. If you're planning career advancement, then you have to plan a precise number of police officers in the future, and therefore those you're training in the KPA. If people who go to KPA don't have priority in employment, but are treated like everyone else who finishes colleges, if I don't list all the colleges, here's Mr. Becic best knows what he's done, otherwise he'd have an advantage over a criminologist with a KPA, it's totally unacceptable for us. So, we think that everyone who enrolls should be registered in a special way with special triage, and that afterwards they have absolute pass as young criminologists in the Police of Serbia. The police of Serbia and the entire ministry number more than 40,000 people, have several hundred each year. So, it's not a number that will negatively affect, but I think it's perfectly natural that if a criminal police academy is formed with the idea of schooling future young police officers for the needs of Serbia's citizens' safety, they get to work before anyone else. So, for them, the competition as a classic competition is not valid, because they need to hold that competition when they're enrolled in the KPA.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47177	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47178	Annually, 600-700 students are enrolled in the KP. We don't need to cut that number, because we want to, it's not an army. Someone who ends the KP can work in the private sector, in private security. There are different profiles and directions of the KP. We have a strong private security sector that is yet to be revived in Serbia. Why would we take away people's ability to work and finish this kind of school, complete specialist training, for example? in forensics and work in the private sector. The interior ministry also prescribes through a career advancement system which number of highly educated members is needed for each year for the city, for the region. Why would we take a man from Belgrade and then send him to work at the Whisper, Nis? Then we have to pay for his apartment, his accommodation, his travel expenses, and we come up with all these problems. We need to design and say 24 police officers from Nis during that and that period, such people should be admitted to the competition. In Article 257. The bill says – persons who have completed their studies within the deadline of a higher education institution educated to achieve a study programme for the purposes of police education or the KP, whose studies have been financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and who have concluded a contract with the ministry for each school year, have the advantage of having general and special conditions for establishing a working relationship with the ministry. So, we give priority to KP graduates, but of course... (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: It is a signed agreement. ) We are now moving on to another system in which we will, and we will change that system over time, where we want to make those people who end the KP, not the ones we select in the first year, which so far was this provision, so we have to have, because so far that system has been in force, we want those people who get married from the KP to be the ones who are the best, according to the number, first-placed, second-placed, third, etc. So that's the goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47179	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47180	I don't think Mr. Igor Becic has the need for a lawyer, nor am I trained to be a lawyer to anyone, nor is Mr. Igor Becic, mentioned earlier in a negative context, but in order for someone in this room to talk about other people's study, about foreign college, about the length of study, about the average in those studies, to be identified first and to say which college he graduated from, how many years did this study, what average did he have in college, and then to talk about other people and how they ended up and what college they were. I am proud to say that I finished something before the average for the Faculty of Machines, that there were many better students and much better graduate and graduate engineers of engineering, but there were even worse ones, so my Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade ended in six years, while an honorary colleague, a proposing amendment for that same college and for the end of that same college only took 12 years. The man's been studying. It's embarrassing and bad to mention other people's diplomas, but usually these things are dealt with and such rhetoric late just those who have the least right to do so. I would never have done this if it hadn't been for such an entrenched, pompous, arrogant and cynical moment earlier, in a negative context mentioned by our colleague, Mr Igor Becic. For the next time, when the amendment promoter in such a way wants to win some political point, it still needs to say first where, how, what, under what conditions and when? Because it seems to me that earlier he became an advisor at the Ministry and got a state job than he finished college and that those Petoctobaric changes helped him finish college, because if there weren't, who knows how much that study would have cost, and probably to become a recordr in the length of his studies at the University of Belgrade University of Engineering. I think we should stay away from this kind of rhetoric and this sort of thing and not use it, because that boomerang of debauchery most often, and if it's strongly twisted and thrown towards what, in this case towards Igor Becic, it just turns around his head and comes to whoever's been lagging like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47181	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47182	Mr. Babic, this isn't the first time you've been into my college. It's simply a matter of manners for you to deal with my family, my brother-in-law, my uncle-in-law, my father-in-law. You have these needs and it's nothing new. It's true that I graduated 11 years later, but I didn't study that much. You should know that I've lived abroad, and I've said that more than once in public. There are reasons why I studied so much, but not after October 5th. You've missed both millenniums and centuries and decades. So I finished college before 2000 and it has nothing to do with October 5th. I can document that for you. You can get all the acid you want, but obviously you didn't know it at the time, and now you're my biographer and Mr. Pavicevic, but in an extremely bad way. I just talked about young people and girls none of whom signed a contract with the Ministry of the Interior, which the state teaches to be cops. That's the point. A dozen of them contacted me. Why do citizens of Serbia pay me today for six hundred criminal and police criminologists? Six hundred of them are enrolled in that college. Reduce that number. I've been telling you this all along, and you're not listening to me. So, the projection of needs, organization, and then the exact number, as it should, so you design a human pyramid, so you learn something. Ask General Zivkovic how it's done. What you gave me as corporate security, that's another thing. You should give them the opportunity to hire them at the police station. I also told you in that debate that we had – receiving at the academy, that is, the KPA, should be done in the region, in relation to the needs of the region, the district and local self-government, or local police stations, and that this is why these young people return to work there. By the way, what you said -- we're not going to send someone from Belgrade to Nis, so today you're talking about how you're sending Vrachar to Novi Sad and you're justifying that possibility, and now it bothers you from Belgrade to Nis? What's changing there? Why is Nis suddenly not part of Serbia, like Novi Sad? So don't use your arguments the wrong way. I'm asking you to seriously consider this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47183	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47184	We don't pay anywhere near 600 people. We pay 40 people in the budget. That's what the Republic of Serbia pays. That's the needs of the M.O.P. That's how it's supposed to take us four years, that's some kind of personnel plan. Other people are self-financed students who joined the Criminal Police Academy. They just wanted to pee. It's like they went to law school or economic college. It's their wish. We can't stop it, nor do we intend to stop it. I'm telling you, just because someone has the intention of getting a job at the MUP doesn't mean that this intention will come true. If you sign up with 70 points and if you may not be the best student or not the best student and there are no best results, there are no best tests, it doesn't prove to be the best – why should the police take it? Because he has a wish? That would be pointless. Not everyone finishes the KPA and gets hired by the police. But that's what people need to think about. Not everyone else finishes colleges, so they get a job. It just doesn't happen. Because people have to have some skills to get a job. Anyway, we're trying to point out, right through that number of people who are being paid out of the country, what are the needs of the MUP. And it's supposed to be a competition. Those 40, I hope, will be the best 40, with the best average. In October we had three ladies who were the best students, for the first time in a long time. So the best they have to go forward and you the best, of the 40 that the state pays, will certainly have a priority. Maybe one of them changes his mind in the meantime, so he doesn't want to work in the police anymore, then he'll go into their position next in line. But we won't take the last one by the rank, because he called, for example, Dragan Sutanovac or Nebojsa Stefanovic, anyway, and said – sorry, I answered. So the best and the best of the first 40 that the state pays for, for which the state will pay for schooling, should go forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47185	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47186	A similar logic as a colleague from earlier I can say that dozens and hundreds of businessmen in Serbia called and asked – why did they not get a loan from the Fund for Development at 2.5% a year, and got Goran Sutanovac, twice, two loans of 120 million dinars? Tens and hundreds of me, thousands of citizens called and said, "Well, you know, we'd be building something on the pasture in Vračar, but they couldn't, and it seems to me, if memory serves me well and if I were to deal with other people's biography, I would choose a much bigger, much more significant people, people with careers, who in their career have done a lot of good things for the citizens of RS. I wouldn't do other careers and less families. But I think by 1996, which I had spent and then graduated from the University of Belgrade Engineering School, that we met and that I met some people and that they were not abroad, they were supposed to have studied. I caught up with them and beat them to it, anyway, like I caught up with them and beat them to it. It's not a shame. It's no shame to extend college. There's a lot of reasons why people can't end up on time, so what? But it's a shame to laugh at others because they've extended and because they've worked, or because they've graduated from college at some other age. That's embarrassing, and that's why I reacted, and I would never have reacted if it hadn't been for such an action, or that kind of reaction to Mr. Becic earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47187	Time, thank you. Let's get back to the amendment now. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Replica! Really, enough about the diploma, we listened. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: He mentioned my brother's name and last name. I don't know who the brother is, really don't. Do you want to talk about brothers, sisters, and diplomats all the time? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Let me answer.) I can't let you. I don't think there's any need to go further into replicas. Thank you. We're going back to the amendment and the word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47188	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, Mr Minister, it is a good thing you did not accept this amendment. We have on several occasions discussed the fact that human training involves new trends in schooling. This means that all those students who want to deal with forensics, now we have a growing demand when we speak from the field of police service that the need for trained personnel in the field of financial forensics is greater. Why are we saying that? Because as a best example, you have a new DRI report, which refers to consolidated AP Vojvodina financial accounts, which show that, for example, whoever is sitting at the head of the AP Vojvodina, and it is well known that it is the prime minister, has simply had 1,999,276,000, which stands on the side of four, without the necessary documentation and with the applicable regulations on international standards. This shows that more than 159 million were spent on public procurement without adequate documentation, showing that it was included in the assets of the AP Vojvodina 1,172 hectares of the country without an estimate of their value, and there are no 59 routes that are other purposes, which represent infrastructure when we talk about Vojvodina. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: this is about the amendment? So, it's a practical introduction...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47189	I'll give you my word, just a colleague to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47190	Here, here. So, this is a good example, and it's a good example, that the staff who are educated at the Criminal Academy should have knowledge of financial forensics, in the field of review, and it has proved to be a good example that when it comes to fighting corruption and when it comes to this amendment at all, we lack such personnel. I see exactly why 600 people are actually enrolled at that academy, and only 40 are capable of being hired by the police. It is good that you also have students who are studying extracurricularly, because they will also be able to help local self-governments deal with forensics and budget spending, in accordance with the law. Because, you know, it's very difficult to have personnel who can, in a certain way, help this kind of report in the part where the prosecutor has to react and really open certain court proceedings. Therefore, in any case, the amendment put forward by the promoter should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47191	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree that students of the police academy when they graduate have priority, priority, but to be taken over by automation, that doesn't make any sense to me. Maybe someone won't. Maybe someone studied for 12 years, so he barely made it through. Perhaps, and this is not a newspaper, as one student with a party of the former regime, they may study closely, as members of the former regime, for 12 years to become experts. They were three years short of retirement. Fifteen years is a condition for retirement, and the vice president of the former regime party and one colleague here studied for 12 years. So, three more and a secure retirement condition, says a pensioner to a student. But I believe they didn't want it, so maybe the police academy is getting through someone who's carefully and long studying to become an expert, to fire 400,000 people, to destroy the Serbian economy, to economically devastate this country, so the amendment, for me at least, is unacceptable to do so by automation. I agree that they have a priority, but it still needs to be some kind of selection, or that not everyone has to be an example just because he studied and graduated from the police academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47193	The 135th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 135th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted to the 135th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to Article 136 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 136th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47194	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 136 concerning human resources in police and ways and conditions for establishing a working relationship. We do not seem to have a sufficiently well-founded explanation for not accepting this amendment. Here's what we suggested, gentlemen. We have proposed supplementing Article 1st, which provides public respect for the principles of competition and compatibility of the public principle with the development of the career system, Minister Stefanovic. Here's how in the final version of our proposal we should read item 1. - If the executive post is vacant, on a proposal from the head of the organization unit responsible for requesting the completion of the job, within 30 days of the day of the place being emptied, the organisation unit responsible for managing human resources shall call an internal competition, so this is an important coin for us to fill that job. Followed by our supplemental sentence – the competition is public for all employees who are informed via the advertising board in organisational units. It seemed to us, Minister Stefanovic, that if this supplemental sentence were accepted, that it would not harm the development of the career system, but would ensure full respect for a principle that is important, I think, for action and in this area, which is the principle of the public. The ideal solution is to have the principle of public being compatible with the development of the career system. We are explained that it is not compatible with each other, but from an explanation, I, for example. I haven't become convinced that it really is, so if we can explain it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47195	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47196	If I read you correctly, you wanted the public, or transparency in the notice of competition, because the competition in this case cannot be public. Public competition means everyone can answer it, you call in a daily call list, and anyone can pick up the job. Then there's no career advancement. So, to make career progress and to respect everything you need, you have an internal competition. The internal competition is being announced and employees are informed of it. That's why we couldn't accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47197	Parliamentarian Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 136th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47198	Thank you, Madam President. This is another amendment by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party that was accepted. Otherwise, we, as colleagues Sutanovac and Pavicevic, intervened on item 1 by adding words at the end of the sentence – which is pointed out on the advertising table of the organisational units, so that this position would now read – if the executive post was vacant, the organisation unit manager who is responsible for the completion of the job, within 30 days of the day of the place being emptied, shall issue an internal competition for the completion of that post, which shall be pointed out on the advertising board of the organisational units. We believe it is necessary to introduce the obligation of the organisation unit responsible for human resources management to inform employees of the internal competitions called, by highlighting it on the advertising board of these organisational units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47199	National MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Comić submitted together to the 136th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 138th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47200	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary, I think, that we focus our attention seriously on our amendment to Article 138, as regards point 1) of Article 1. Here is what is written in this section of this article of the Bill – you cannot accept a person in the Ministry's employment relationship, so point 1) goes against whom a criminal offence is being prosecuted for crimes that are being prosecuted by official duty. We've made three good arguments. Why can the contents of this point be problematic? We wrote that this provision is unacceptable from the point of view of one of the fundamental legal principles of a state that rests on the principle of rule of law, and our state, if we read our Constitution, we all know it here, based on the content of Article 3. The constitution rests on the principle of rule of law and the most important principle of criminal law, that everyone is considered innocent until proven otherwise. What's going on, gentlemen? When we accept such a provision in Article 138, we feel like we've judged one man. I read the explanation, for example the Ministry, why our amendment cannot be accepted. It states in its explanation - the amendment is not accepted because the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted before the establishment of a working relationship in the ministry cannot be admitted to a working relationship because there is a possibility that the proceedings will be sentenced to the maintenance of the prison sentence. It seemed to us that such a provision was a violation of certain rights, especially the conjecture of innocence for some persons facing a kind of persecution. Of course, I was thinking, so do you, though if there is a reasonable doubt that someone can end up there, how to design. But as you called yourself during the debate here when we talked about thugs in the apartment, in the house, that there are some legal assumptions that we can't hurt regardless of our empathy for the other one. To worry about how he will behave, including Minister Stefanovic here, we must take care of some principles, some assumptions concerning the great principle of rule of law. That's what we have to value here first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47201	I've given you time longer, amazing. My bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47202	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47203	These are conditions prescribed, of course, for respect in the entire state administration, so in all ministries, but to be completely plastic. You've got a face that could be the perpetrator of a crime and you're bringing him to the Ministry for the pursuit of these crimes. You're already putting him in a position to influence the outcome of the investigation on our own, to take theoretically. So you're hiring in an organ that deals with it, which is completely impossible. So it's inappropriate. The state has to go through some kind of security check to run some kind of check and say – let the procedure be completed and, if it's all right, apply for a job. So, while there's such a kind of suspicion it's simply inappropriate for someone to be admitted to the work of the MUP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47204	Parliamentarians Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic together submitted the 138th amendment. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47205	It is already quoted as Article 138 and point 1), which prescribes employment, i.e. taking into account employment, and so that if a criminal offence is conducted against a person for crimes being prosecuted under official duty. We're changing into a few points so you don't get a face against who you're running a criminal trial against. The reasons are next. We were against a provision in this law that said that working relationship would stop if criminal proceedings were conducted against the person. In that provision, as much as we are against that provision, in that provision you did not define the type of criminal procedure for the person already employed to have a working relationship, stopped working relationship. Now in order for a person to have a working relationship, it can do so but not if it's criminal acts being prosecuted on criminal duty. So you have to make up your mind. So our amendment is in the spirit of what you want from this law. I don't want anyone to be fired because he's being prosecuted, because I believe we should respect the Constitution and that everyone is innocent until proven guilty. But you insist on it, your right is completely legitimate, then you'll have one reason to fire your face, and another reason not to have a working relationship. I'm not sure the amendment can't be better defined, just the idea of putting people in a completely equal position. If a person employed by the MUP will stop working for a criminal offence for acts prosecuted by official duty, then it goes here, if not, then a criminal case of whatever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47206	We put it here in Article 172. — where it is established, therefore, it is a special case of termination of employment, when it is established that a judicial verdict is sentenced to an unconditional sentence of prison for more than six months, for criminal offences prosecuted by official duty on the day of the decision-making, etc. So it's the crimes that are being prosecuted on official duty. I agree with you on termination, and I agree with you that the methodology should be the same. If he's put on, and I'm asking you to, just once again, so if someone can't be accepted because of the suspicion that he committed a crime, that he's being prosecuted for such a crime, then it's logical that such a crime can stop him from working and vice versa, so it's exactly the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47207	Members Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted the 138th amendment together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – ZZS – ZS together submitted the 138th amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47208	Thank you, Madam President. We've also intervened on Article 138, which says who can't be admitted to the employment relationship at the MUP. So we had the biggest remark at point 6). The first part of that point that says that a person who has been convicted of a violation of the elements of violence cannot be employed by the ministry. We agree completely with that, but the second part of this point 6 does not give us the hope that it is clear, it is – or another offence that makes it unworthy of doing business in the ministry. We propose that this provision or other violation which makes it unworthy to carry out operations at the Ministry, because we believe that the reason for a person not to be admitted to a working relationship must be very precise and there must be no room for arbitrary interpretations, which means that he is not worthy of doing business in the Ministry, in which he will determine a circle of such violations. I'd like to hear that in response from Mr. Secretary. Otherwise, in an explanation for the refusal of our amendment, you are calling on the amendment not to accept, for the reason that the amendment of MP Zoran Babic was accepted as Article 172. I have looked at my colleague Babic's amendment, and I have seen that he also partially refers to Article 138, but not a single part of that amendment does not refer to point 6) to which we have objections and which we have submitted the amendment, and I ask you to clarify exactly what I asked – which one will determine whether someone is worthy or unworthy? What are the parameters and all of what I said in the previous presentation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47209	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47210	I'll accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47211	Thank you. The amendment is accepted. Members of the 141st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Milan Petrovic with a correction and together by Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47212	So article 141 defines the level of security checks. If we say that there are three levels of security checks, that the first level is for all employees in the ministry for a period of five years and that it is carried out by lower officials, the question of who is doing a mid-level check and for a person in a position, i.e. persons placed. We believe that the full conflict of interest is if the mid-level security checks are carried out by his subordinates. So, a candidate for a police chief in a Serbian place is doing security checks, he's employed here at the police station, for example, is a deputy police chief, his subordinated to do that. It's, you know, that goat and cabbage. That's not good. We suggest that for the middle level and the face level at the position, i.e. the set-up of the internal control sector. The internal control sector is independent of those persons, the internal control sector can do so in a better way and without a problem of conflict of interest. So I totally understand the cops who advised you to do this. For what? Because they're sure to get a positive security check, because once they send the cops in the chain of command to them, they won't bring a negative security check. And then why the Internal Affairs Sector, if that sector isn't running security checks. I don't know if you're listening to me, Mr. Secretary. I wish you'd listen to me. I think you're wrong here, I can see that you weren't in the mood to accept any DS amendment today, maybe that's your position, but what you're proposing is a classic conflict of interest, it's like sending Mr. Babic to do a security check for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47213	Time. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47214	It wouldn't be the same. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: in the party I thought.) ) Mr Babic is a representative of the legislative authority that controls the work of the MUP, but is not done in the parties of security checks. I don't know if there are other parties, but we don't do it. As far as this amendment is concerned, I accept your amendment and I think you're right, that this should be this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47215	There, one is accepted. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 142. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47216	Article 142 also defines the way security checks are carried out and in the part of the members we consider to be to be deleted, it is said that individual jobs, in the ministry, under Article 9(2) of this law, in the process of carrying out a security check, are subject to a polygraph examination. You just said that a polygraph is no fascination, and here's the truth: I asked for a polygraph, and pro for that famous pasture, which is often mentioned by Mr. Babic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47217	I just want to hear attitude nine wipe out. Let go of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47218	The polygraph will probably also work for Partisan aviation... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47219	You're very loud, but I turned off your microphone, so you're talking without a microphone, because you're not talking about why attitude 9 is being deleted. You don't talk, you talk about some pastures, I can't follow you, and I can't follow a polygraph. Then don't talk about pastures. Just keep doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47220	Chairman, you're not following me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47221	It's nice on the Sorceress. I'm following you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47222	... the posts of the Ministry established by an act of the members of the Ministry and, in the process of carrying out a security check, it is mandatory, imagine, a polygraph examination. So now you understand me? So, I think it either needs to be on a lower level or it doesn't have to exist as such, as a commitment. I know that, for example, right now at the Ministry, the phones of all employees who have signed consent and even for private ones are being removed. My point is to leave the official one, everyone. He wanted to, I didn't want to, when you get the official phone in your hand, even if you listen, to make such a short solution, that a cop has an unfettered job, it's 24 hours a day a cop, and when his phone rings, he has to react like a cop.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47223	Time. Thank you. The amendment with the correction was submitted to Article 142, by Milan Petrovic. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, the ZZS and the ZS submitted together to Article 143 of the amendment. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, the ZZS and the ZS submitted together to Article 144 of the amendment. Member of the 144th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47224	Dear ladies and gentlemen, and in the principle debate, I have announced to Minister Stefanovic that it would be good to consider this procedure of electing a police director. Here, Mr. Rebic who's V.D. The Director of Police, not here today, was there when we had a principle debate, and I asked Minister Stefanovic to ask Mr. Rebić, for example, how it would look like, now, a candidate for the Director of the Police, to be appointed as Head of Police, and on the proposal of the Minister for Public Competition or for Minister Stefanovic for respecting one of the great principles of transparency, and in this segment, I do not think there is any reason not to respect this principle, there are certain parts of police activities, police officers, various special or special units, which exclude this principle, but here we seem to respect the principle of transparency of a commission that is five-member and whose member should be minister, should propose to the Government a candidate for the Director of Police and then, based on this procedure and on a public competition, the government decides who will be the Director of Police. I was curious, here's a little experiment, what the police director would say about these two proposals, about these two different times how to reach the Director of Police. I ask you, Mr. Stefanovic, that if you asked Mr. Rebic, and if he were there, he wouldn't be able to speak, to let us know what would happen, for example, his opinion, as an imaginary candidate for that position after he expires this V.D. status around this part of the procedure, so let's hear the opinion of a man who works in the police department for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47225	Parliamentarians Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted together to the 150th amendment. The 150th amendment with the correction was filed by Milan Petrovic. Member of the 150th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47226	The 150th is arranged by the deployment of a strategic and high-level manager in the Police Directorate. In the proposed legal solution given by the Ministry, which I have somewhere to understand, it was said to be done in an internal competition. I don't think it has to be on the inside, it could be a public competition, if for the chief of police, in all, the director of the police opens up a public competition, then if it can be more, it can be less, so what would be an internal competition for his deputy? Of course, conditions that are understood are understood. The conditions also apply to the public competition for the director are likely to be lower, and to his deputy. So, I don't see the logic, I don't see the logic in which an internal competition is being held here, with all due respect to the personnel map, career advancement, but you can have a situation where some extremely experienced prosecutor, say, who's been working on security jobs for 20 years, 30 years, wants to run for deputy police director. Why can't the prosecutor, who's been doing these jobs, run for office? If I wasn't talking about someone, let's say a military officer from a criminal investigation group, or a member of a BIA or a VBA. So, if you want it to be transparent, if you want it to be, as you've appointed director, then I think for that mid-term, or high-level police directorate, the competitions should go public. You've just explained to me that, from the crime-police academy, you don't always get the best fit, so you're taking a fit from other colleges, which is better, the same thing is now that there might be a fit on the public labour market, maybe there are people who are trained to do the jobs that are offered at that level. So, if you've defined yourself a little before for better staff, in competition, don't narrow down that story now...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47227	Thanks, time. The word has a minister, to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47228	It's possible when a man's career begins to be taken from different structures and started to study the job. But could he be, say, a commander of a special army brigade to be taken from the ranks, like a career cop? Could the commander, say the military police battalion be taken over from that structure, or could it be just someone who is in career development through the Serbian military progress in this regard? So, the director is elected in a public competition, because the director is a person, a government official, who is appointed by the government, and people who, for example, are police station chiefs, or police departments, are the officers who, by their work, merits, have come to that level by training. The D.A. has certain knowledge, but there's no police knowledge that has career cops. He just didn't do the job. It depends on why. But he didn't do the job, he didn't command the troops, and then the career system in that sense isn't too much, then we'd better not go into the career system, so we better open up only competitions and report, maybe there's some enthusiast who's finished some other college, but he's good at it, trained. So, why would they take the ones with the KPA? Then what do we need them for? Well, we better take only the best then, maybe there are other colleges better than that particular KPA student. Among those 40, we can take it from the Military Academy. So, what I'm saying is if we respect the career system, if we give priority to people with the KPA, then we have to respect what the predispositions of people we put on career cops are. That, first of all, must be people from the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47229	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: can I just explain? You can't. Parliamentarians Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted together to the 151st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 151 of the amendment, with correction, MP Milan Petrovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to Article 151 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47230	Well, that amendment is very similar to the amendment we talked about earlier, if you please, Mr. Minister, I must tell you that, let's say, the commander of Gendarmeria Tesic has crossed from the Serbia-Montenegro Army to the Gendarmeria. One of the big cops I truly personally appreciate ended up in The Hague, unfortunately. General Lukic finished the Military Academy, the commander of the CIA has currently graduated from the Military Academy. So what you're saying, you're either going to take one principle, or another principle, and not in one principle one principle, in another principle. So I think we have time until we adopt these amendments both 151 and 150 to think about, I think you should adopt that, because that would help to raise quality to a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47231	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law found the amendment to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives see the amendment as in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 154th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives see the amendment as in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 154th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 154. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47232	Amendment 154. Position 2 is practically the original proposal of the Police Union, which considers it necessary for a police officer to be a little more respected than his superior. What's proposed in the law, it's about changing the schedule of working hours, at least seven hours before the schedule changes, informing a police officer. The amendment refers to the fact that this change in the schedule of working hours is five days before the change, except for exceptional cases, the possibility remains to be in exceptional cases and otherwise, but I think the officers deserve that they should not be given five hours before work hours before work hours, work tours, work weekends, work nights and so forth. So, it doesn't rule out being shorter, but the rule to be that the one who plans working hours, has to plan it at least five days in advance, to honor a cop because he does his job just like everyone else does, he has a family, etc. So, I repeat, it doesn't rule out that at some point it can change working hours immediately, but in regular terms, if you don't have local police chiefs who can't plan five days ahead, then you change them all together and you give people the opportunity to plan five days ahead of their working hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47233	The 154th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 154th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic put together the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 158th Amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47234	This amendment concerns the redistribution of working hours. The draft law states that a direct manager can re-distribute the working time when it requires the nature of the work, the organisation of the work, etc. We agree with that, but we say that the direct manager is a reasoned solution, he can re-schedul working time. So we're making it impossible for anyone to manipulate cops if they're having some redistribution, if they're doing anything about ad hoc cops, as envisaged here, that at least there's a reasoned solution to what they're doing. It means he's not left to be a cop at the mercy of his boss, so if he's with him in close relations, then he'll have a better relationship. If he's in bad personal relations, then he can make a move, or he can use this member to get a different working time without reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47235	The 158th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and jointly by Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 159 of the amendment in the same text, MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – Social Democratic Party – ZZS – ZS – submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted to the 160th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 160 of the amendment, with correction, MP Milan Petrovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 160th amendment. The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47236	Article 160 also treats labour legal relations within the framework of the MUP. To tell you the truth, I'm surprised you didn't accept that. Our proposal is that a police officer who works at least 10 hours a day has the right to rest during work for 45 minutes, as we say, which can be used either from one or from two parts. We also believe that the rest of this item 1 and 2 can be used at the end of working hours, or if there is no opportunity to take a 45-minute break, then it can leave the workplace after nine hours and 15 minutes, or go home because the job is finished. So, it's not often that in those ten hours people can't take a break, and they have the opportunity to take a break. If they don't make it, they can't shorten it for that 45-minute day, they stay for ten hours. I say again, this was also supported by the police union. I don't see why the colleagues who are with you and who advise you don't support it. It's also in their favor. Tomorrow they can work ten hours. The second thing, if they have 45 minutes, the possibility of two times 22, 23 minutes to have a vacation, more logical than to make him work at once 45 minutes, and then to work that five hours again. So, nothing is disputed, I don't think it's gonna bother us in any way. On the contrary, I think it will give more elans precisely to cops to work better, with two breaks, whether it's coffee, whether it's breakfast, lunch, etc., but I think it's a much better quality solution than what you've offered. I'm sure my colleagues agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47237	Members of the 160th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee have accepted amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 164. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 164th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. The amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic to Article 164. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the amendment to Article 164. On Article 167, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47238	I don't know, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, why you didn't accept this amendment. This amendment concerns a member who speaks of an evaluation of work. In the last position of Article 167, says – the criteria and methods of assessing police officers and other ministry employees are prescribed by the government. What time? Mr. Todorovic, you know it well, there must be a deadline. So our amendment is that within three months of the entry into force of this law, a deadline is prescribed, because this means nothing, prescribed by the Government, when? Maybe in the next millennium. That's where you missed, and someone skipped the amendment. I think three months is quite enough, and I believe that you already have the criteria and the method of grading, so that's to be accepted within three months. So in this article, if that doesn't change, the government will never have to or will have to in a limit of some infinite time to do so, because there's no legal obligation to do so before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47239	Members of the 167th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Member of the 167th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 168. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47240	In Article 168, we consider firstly that the first position, which he says - ministry employees cannot carry out jobs that commercialise knowledge and skills acquired in the ministry. And what jobs can the members of the Ministry do if not precisely the knowledge and skills they acquire in the ministry? Imagine that the Law on Education states that teachers cannot do jobs, commercialize their knowledge and skills that they have acquired in the Ministry of Education, for example, as teachers, teachers, etc. That's ridiculous. The second thing, the criteria and the way of the evaluation, the work of Article 1 that are incompatible with police affairs is prescribed by the minister within three months as well. If you expect the officers to do some work on their own time, to do something without having to do with the knowledge and skills they acquired in the ministry, will you tell me only – and what will they do? Then those in special forces won't be able to do any physical work, because they've acquired their skills by training in special forces. Is that right? Would you like to take a break to consult? Really, I don't know, here's a fellow who sits behind you, the police officers, tomorrow to hire you in private, you have permission, and you can't use the knowledge and skills you've acquired in the ministry, so where are you going to, what knowledge and skills, load coal? Well, no one's gonna call you for that. If you're in finance at the ministry, someone will call you to help with your finances, if you're in any other business... So I think you should accept this and also a deadline to put it in, for three months, I think it's quite enough to do it. Mr. Minister, it's impossible to do this without a deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47241	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47242	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we suggest changing the position of Article 3 168. This is one of those amendments that we've responded to to one principle that we don't think should be justified for this legislative project, which is the principle of arbitration. Our proposal is for attitude 3 to be formulated in the following way - the jobs and actions of the first and second members, which are incompatible with police affairs, is prescribed by the ministry, not by the minister, as is said here. We have also announced to Minister Stefanovic in principle, and this is a message, gentlemen, I think to other ministers and people who act in the executive power, that when they approach the preparation of legislative proposals and legislative projects they always try to imagine themselves in the role of the other, without writing these proposals from the position they are currently in, if possible, to succeed in that imagination. I think it's possible. Every reasonable man, an intelligent man, is always directed towards some kind of imagination sometimes, and that, in accordance with the great principle of rule of law, we write legislative projects moved from the position we are in today, put in front of ourselves a veil of little ignorance, that we can't trust that in two years, in a year or maybe three months, we will continue to be in that same position and that we write legislative projects so that another man should also work from that position. It seemed to us that despite the fact that the criteria of precision are satisfied with the acceptance of our amendments, not only of our amendments to us New Party MPs, but of other MPs of the opposition, but of one part and of the ruling coalition, but there remain criteria of arbitration and intransparency as they are unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47243	Thank you. The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic, with correction, and together by Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Corovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. The amendments in the same text were submitted together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 169.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47244	By bill 169, you practically suspended the right of police officers to be members of political parties. It is perfectly understandable that police officers are forbidden to organise themselves, to act politically, to run, etc., but it is totally unacceptable to suspend them from being members of the political party. What's going on with groups of citizens, what's going on with the movement? It's not defined at all. Mr. Stefanovic, I ask you, if you have time to listen to me, I see that anxiety is near the end, to ask Mr. Watkins – do they not have the right to be members of the party in Britain? You belong to a foreigner, it's a personal matter, completely. So this is where you could put -- forbidden membership in Masons, vegetarians, secret associations, etc., and you didn't do it. For what? Because our society is completely politicized, so it can't be a party member. So a cop has the right to be a party member, that's our opinion, has no right to act politically, has no right to run, has no right to act politically on his job, but to be a party member alone I don't see why it would be controversial. I say, you'd like to ask, since I personally had the chance to ask the chief of the Metropolitan Police in London – do they have the right to be officers of parties in England? I've been told that they have and that it's no obstacle to work, but they're not politically active, they can't run, they can't participate in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47245	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47246	It may not be so in London, but because London, or Britain, does not have that kind of constitution. Our Constitution in Article 55 of Position 5 makes it very clear: "Judges of the Constitutional Court, Judges, Public Prosecutors, Protector of Citizens, Policemen and Members of the Army cannot be members of political parties". The Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47247	Members of the 170th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Members of the 170th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47248	Thank you, Madam President. Article 170 speaks of the right to strike. We intervened on item 4, which reads: “The head of the organisational unit shall no later than ten days before the start of the strike determine the employees who are required to work during the strike in order to ensure the minimum working process. ” We have foreseen by our amendment that the rest of the sentence, which reads: "which cannot be less than 60% of the employees", is deleted. Then we predicted that the attitude of the 10th member, which reads: “The police officers who are taking part in the strike cannot, during the strike, bear arms and other means of coercion. ” So, the solution to the bill under which the number of employees, who are obliged to remain in his post during the strike, cannot be less than 60% fully devising the constitutional right to strike. Since the strike is the consequence of the dispute between most employees and employers, it is simply illogical that it is given in this article. It is also unacceptable to provide that police officers involved in the strike cannot wear weapons and other means of coercion during the strike, since objective circumstances may occur during the strike that require the legal use of the means of coercion. I'd just like to read you the explanation that concerns our amendment's refusal. So you are still calling for the amendment of the People's MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandr Markovic, Nenad Nikolic to be the same member of this law. However, what colleagues have intervened on has nothing to do with what we've intervened on, and please once again, so this isn't the first time, this may be the fifth, sixth time that I have an unsatisfactory explanation for refusing our amendments, to warn the service that at least more carefully writes those answers to our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47249	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47250	I just can't figure out why they'd predict that someone who's strike, who's in the process of stopping work is carrying means of coercion and weapons. So, he's in labor suspension, so he doesn't do his duty, what does he need a weapon for, what does he do with it? Put the gun down, so he's got a nice protest, he's strikein', he's got a right to it, it's not controversial. What's he doing with guns? I don't see what you'd be doing with him in the process of stopping the work. When he gets back to work, he picks up his weapon and continues the process of work. As for the minimum working process, believe that if we talked all day today about what is the interest of Serbian citizens, it is the interest of Serbian citizens to have police who perform their duties. When people are hired, and everyone wants to get hired at the Ministry of the Interior, it's a jag, it's a pressure, which is amazing. I really didn't know there was this much pressure on people who wanted to hire at the Ministry. That's a lot of pressure, really. And then they want to get a job at the ministry that deals with security, security, security of Serbian citizens 24 hours a day, and then decide to go out and protest, then it's best to be two police officers who work and the rest of them to protest. I don't know if people realize that this is the most serious security breach. It doesn't matter if it's directed against some government, the minister, the failure of these or those. At that point, we have a problem that we don't meet the security assumptions that citizens pay us for, and that's the problem. That's why we predicted that we would find some peaceful solution, 60% of people are some number that guarantees that Serbia is safe. These 40% of people are quite enough numbers, especially in the MUP, which is large and numerous, to show their dissatisfaction, protest, etc. I will remind you that in many EU countries no union organisation is allowed at all, let alone a strike.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47251	Parliamentarians Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic submitted the amendment together. Member of the 170th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 170th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47252	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Minister Stefanovic, you have rightly called for Article 55. The constitution when you spoke about the inability of a member of the police, for example, in political parties, and I think it's now time for Article 170, first of all, to call on Article 61. A constitution that defines the right to strike, and where employees are said to have the right to strike. We seem to have a kind of disenfranchisement of the right to strike and that should not stand in this legislative project either. We have one more thing that we shouldn't have, I mean, in our laws, which is not in accordance with other laws, if we happen to really declare this bill. In particular, non-compliance will exist with the provisions of the Strike Act. It seems to me that eradicating Article 4 is an appropriate solution to this situation so that the content of one member of the bill does not mean we have a call for a constitutional provision, so we all agree – yes, we should call for that constitutional provision, and around another member of the same legislative project that the second constitutional provision does not have to be so binding for us. It seems to us that the right to strike, defined by the Constitution, is one of the most important rights and that it is necessary to prepare legislative projects here, to write bill proposals so that we never narrow down what our Constitution guarantees the right to do. It seems to us that such a situation is here and that it should respond by eradicating, for example, Article 170 in Article 4, which defines the right to strike in the Bill of Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47253	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47254	I'll just for the sake of precision, Mr. Chairman, that where the amendment promoter put the point, and not the point, I'll read Article 61 just for the sake of precision. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in whole – The right to strike. The employees have the right to strike, in accordance with the law and collective agreement, that is the first position and second position – the right to strike can only be restricted by law, similar nature or type of action. Everything provided for in Article 170. The draft law on police is fully in line with Article 61. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you, in the heat of political struggle, that we do not read the Constitution selectively, not to read it to the score, but to read all the members and all the attitudes, not to put the point where it suits us, but to where it stands. That is why I support why you rejected this amendment, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47255	I thank you, Mr. Granny. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 170. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47256	We tabled an amendment that was rejected because the amendment of distinguished counterpart Janko Veselinovic was accepted, although our amendments were not identical. First, I don't understand how you thought, and how you think he stays because he writes that the organisation unit manager no later than 10 days before the strike starts determines the employees, and at the same time the alert strike is announced no later than 10 days before the strike begins. So, at the same time, it's decided who's going to work that day, and at the same time it's given the idea of when there's going to be a strike. But what's a bigger problem here, there's a strike law. Article 5 of the Law states: “The strike committee is required to announce the strike by submitting a decision to the employer on the strike no later than five days before the date of the strike, or 24 hours before the strike. So this is defined in the second law. We have given an amendment that practically that other law implements in your law. That strike law is, to say the higher law than the Police Act, as far as the strike is concerned, and it's just amazing that you left this as a solution that's in collegiate with the law that already exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47257	Thank you. The amendments in the same text were submitted to Article 182 by MPs Milan Petrovic with a correction, and together by Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 182 by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 182nd Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, and joint MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, mr. Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47258	Thank you. So it's perfectly acceptable for us, logically and meaningfully, that a person against whom a criminal offence is being prosecuted can't be accepted in the employment relationship at the Ministry. It's something that you mean when it comes to security checks, that's what you mean. However, it is not acceptable for us to get a police officer fired by automatic. We talked about it in the principle debate. I'd understand that it's done, say, to say that the one who's being prosecuted for the work that I'm imagining, to get fired, but for the acts of indiscretion that are being prosecuted by the DA's official office, it's totally unacceptable for cops to get fired. Inadequate works can be diverse, from overuse of force to traffic work. So, Mr. Stefanovic, they're not the same conditions for employment and dismissal. You know, when someone's being admitted to the police, I guess they're going to go into a health checkup, so take it, so a man gets sick over time, and because of the reason why they'd say no to him at the reception, no one fires him, but keeps working in positions where he can. I think here the first presummation of innocence ends on one side. These aren't those cases you've explained in a situation where a cop sits in a bar with a criminal. Even by this law, you tolerate it. Sitting with a criminal, the D.A.'s office is not being prosecuted. So these are situations where police officers will be able to get fired and for a car accident, which is not even ruled on, means where they haven't received a verdict or should I say, excessive use of force that can obviously be judged to match who's in power. Please think again, I appeal to fellow officers sitting in the back, this is about your colleagues. You nodding your head isn't enough. I think you should suggest the minister for this not to work, because this is not good from the point of view of police work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47259	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47260	Dear ladies and gentlemen, our amendment to Article 172 is also related to our amendment to Article 138, although we can imagine the situation of accepting arguments that Article 138 in point 1) remains as it says in the bill, we do not think that it should stand exactly the way it is about ending a working relationship. This is what it says - in addition to cases of termination of labour by law, established by other regulations to police officers, or other employees, the employment relationship in the ministry ceases, and goes to point 2) – when it is established that it has ceased to meet the conditions for establishing a working relationship provided for in Article 138(1) of this Act. Article 138 of Section 1 states that a person against whom a criminal offence is being prosecuted for his official duties cannot be accepted in a labour relationship with the ministry. I think it would be most appropriate to stop this person's working relationship after he's convicted of this crime, not the moment when a criminal offence is committed, because I think this formulation provides terrible conditions for abuse, and that when we write laws, we should also think about whether it is possible to abuse a provision. It seems to us that here, since there are great possibilities of abuse, we either need to delete this point two or reshape it if it is procedurally possible now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47261	Thank you. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 177th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 177th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. The amendment with the correction was submitted to Article 177 by MP Milan Petrovic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. The amendment was submitted to Article 182 by MP Dragan Sutanovac. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. In the name above the article. 184, 185, 187 and 194 and art. 136, 175, 176, 184, 185, 186, 189, 190, 192, 194, 208, 209, 217, 246 and 254 amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic. On behalf of the above members and Article 184 of the amendment, MP Zoran Babic submitted. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Under the name above Articles 184 and 184 of the amendment, MP Dubravka Filipovski submitted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. On behalf of the above member and article 185, MP Zoran Babic submitted the amendment. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments in the same text were submitted to Article 186 by MPs Milan Petrovic, with the correction and together with Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Thank you. The name above the member and Article 187 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic together submitted the 167th amendment. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to article 188. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Thank you. The amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. Members of the 189th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47262	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 189 of the amendment, which is not accepted on the grounds that Mr Babic's amendment was accepted. Now, Mr. Babic's amendment doesn't solve all the problems we've identified. Mr Babić's amendment solves problems concerning the 2nd Article's position in 189 and Article 5, but not the 1st position. Here's what it says in point one. – Ministry employees have the right to compensation for the cost of arrival and departure from work at the level of costs only in the territory of the municipality or city of employment. We felt that it was not in accordance with other laws, and it is not fair, and we suggested that in attitude 1. writes – employees in the ministry have the right to compensation for the cost of coming and leaving work. Why? There are employees, respected gentlemen, and we have written this in a statement, whose place of residence is on the territory of another police administration or are away from the place of employment 100, 200, sometimes a little more kilometers away and that they should have the right to compensation for costs. We continue to believe that the content of Article 1 should not remain as it is now in the bill, that the proposal offered by Mr Babic is fine when it comes to the content of Article 2 and the contents of Article 5, but it is not about the content of Article 1 and that this article would be completed, so that we say both just and in accordance with other laws, for example the Labour Act, if we read as we have suggested. Once again, ministry employees have the right to compensation for coming and leaving work, not to limit that right to their costs only in the territory of the municipality and the city where they are employed, and he works for example 100, 150, 200 kilometers away. There you go, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47263	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 189.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47264	I had no idea that Pavicevic had submitted the same amendment and I just wanted to support that amendment. My amendment is identical and let me explain some things. The bill states that employees in the ministry have the right to compensation for the cost of coming and leaving work in the area of the municipality or the city in which they are employed. We have a situation to say now that an employee who works in the city's police administration of Belgrade is coming from Obrenovac, because the territory of the city is full of paid arrival and departure from work, and one who lives in Panchev, who is twice as close to the police administration of Belgrade, has no pay for the cost of leaving and coming to work. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, this member should not exist as a member. He needs to be understood. If you're doing serious planning, career advancement can't happen if cops travel 100 or 200 kilometers to work or back every day. They're dysfunctional completely. You have to find a way that this thing in law doesn't practically exist as controversial. I know people who travel from Nis to Belgrade, from Arangelovac, I don't know where. These people, when they get to work, they're dysfunctional and they can't do their job in quality. At the same time, I'm guessing with the personnel map you could hire people in that place. So this has to change. I know it's been a long time, but this is a big problem. You're cutting them off for travel expenses. I think that these people are just left to leave the police, go to sick leave, and that's what's going on and that's not going to benefit the police or the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47265	Thank you. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic and jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 189. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill, Mr Sutanovac. Member of the 189th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. National MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic submitted to the amendment. Members of the 190th amendment were jointly submitted by the parliamentary groups, Boris Tadic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 190 speaks of the right to compensation in case of temporary prevention of work and attitude 6 also provides for a case of abuse of temporary prevention for work. We rephrase that position 6 which otherwise reads – in the event of a reasonable suspicion that an employee is misusing the use of temporary prevention for work, the direct manager may only be required to provide evidence of field control and then contact the competent health care authority to determine the health capacity of the employee. Our change is – in the event of a reasonable suspicion that an employee is misusing the use of temporary prevention for work, the direct manager may submit a request to the competent health authority to determine the health capacity of the employee. The decision given in the law states that there are cases of reasonable doubt that employees are misusing the use of temporary prevention for work and the direct manager can only be made to provide evidence that they exercise field control, and then contact the competent health care authority to determine the health skills of the employee contrary to Article 103. The labour law. Furthermore, the direct manager does not possess sufficient knowledge from the field of medical profession to collect evidence in the manner proposed by Article 6, 190. It's a bill of law. As far as the arguments we have received are concerned, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the ability to control the disease is provided for in Article 103. Labour law, and considering that police officers as a condition for establishing a working relationship and working in the ministry have a special psychophysical capacity, we consider the proposed solution justified. The aim of the norm is to prevent abuse of illness, diminished psychophysical ability affecting police affairs. In part, I agree with this argument of yours, but you will also allow a police officer, or police officer, to be alive and to be able to get sick, and I don't know why you reject this amendment of ours. I think healthcare professionals have far more grounds to give their opinion on the exchange of the ability of members of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47267	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47268	First of all, because the representatives of that medical institution have already given their opinion and no doctor will admit that he did so beyond the law or favouring the employee or by doing so. No one's gonna admit it. We have the right to field check. The field check is being carried out and I don't have to comply with the Labour Act. In the end, the Law on civil servants is not in line with all the labour law norms. This is a Lex special. Police officers have regulations that other officials and civil servants working for the state do not have to meet. They must because the specificity of their work is that and because it happened and it all came out of practice. This all came from practice. Unfortunately, if there are no field checks, the official claims he's on sick leave, and you don't find him at home, not even at the health center, and he's not even in the country, then you have a reasonable suspicion that there's something wrong with that. Then you go to the health care facility and you say, "We want to get him back in control, something's going on here." If it hadn't been for abuse, no one would have pulled this off. Unfortunately, that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47269	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47270	Just one sentence. I don't argue there's abuse, but we still need to start from not being a mass phenomenon. I'm reading what was proposed in this article of the law, and that's exactly what you said. So this is the second part of the sentence that says – and then contact the competent health care institution to determine the health skills of the employee. So we're going back to a health care facility that, whether we want it or not, has to give its opinion on the health skills of the employee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47271	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47272	That's not controversial. They don't want police officers to determine their health skills. We're just making sure he's home. You know, if you claim to be in sick leave and you're not at the health center, you're not at another location that you reported as a place where you're going to spend your stay, so you can't spend your time shopping and you claim to be on sick leave to get a good salary. Then they go to sick leave and come back in two or three years, and then they get full pay. That's great, that's great, but then there's the question of what are these other people doing in the police naive, or not to say a more difficult word? So at this point, we're trying to root out the question. No one here is going to check out those people who are known to be really sick and that no one is questioning, but you have to know how far the border is. You can't play law all the time. It's true, in practice, that people have been in fake pain for years, and for another time, you have proof that they're doing another work. He's a security guard on rafts, and he can't work with the police. Then you ask the health care facility, and they say, "I'm sorry, we're staying at the original findings." So what do you do? Then you go to the field check, you find him on the raft, and then you say, "I'm sorry, there's something weird going on here. Then you're calling a health care facility, so you're asking for a re-experience that they're giving you to change the doctor again, to have someone from the health care facility ask themselves. Therefore, it is not disputed that health incompetence is determined only by the competent health authority, but we must have the opportunity to ask ourselves whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47273	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47274	Dear ladies and gentlemen, our amendment is similar to the amendment submitted by Mrs. Karavidic. I think, Mr. Stefanovic, that in this debate, and I have listened carefully, yet the argument stands on the side of what Mrs. Karavidic said. If you do not want to accept our amendment, here, accept the amendment of Mrs. Karavidic. Because, Minister Stefanovic, however, the final point will be to give a doctor from a competent health institution, there is no dilemma. If there's already a reasonable doubt that someone's abuse of that position, then what the manager can do, as I understand you now, he can find him somewhere, for example. on the raft, to take a picture, do something, come and get it, but he has to go to the doctor and the doctor will eventually give his opinion again. So it seems to us that this part is solely for the purpose of providing evidence to exercise field control is excessive, because there is already a reasonable doubt that someone is misusing a right, and the final word of it will ultimately give that doctor from a competent medical institution. If there is a reasonable doubt that the doctor will now forge something, then even with that reasonable doubt he can react. It seems to us that this inserted sentence is really too high. My proposal is that this position 6 - in case of a reasonable suspicion that an employee is misusing the use of temporary prevention for work, the direct manager may contact the competent health care institution immediately, in order to determine the health capacity of the employee, because there is already this established suspicion of everything else. If the doctor wants to cheat, then he'll cheat with this photo, and then I think it's too much of this fake sentence. Here, let me see if you think otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47275	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47276	We, through field control, protect in a way and the rights of the employee. Because when you say – immediately contact the health care facility, they give confidence to that police officer and call that employee who is really sick and he is exposed to additional medical checks without additional control we could check. Maybe people went home, found him in the house, which the law also says that the sick must be in the territory of the residence, or residence, especially if the doctor doesn't decide that it might be some sort of Banj spa or something, and you find that the man is really there and he's not really leaving the house. This reduces doubts, and then you don't point it to any new ones, i.e. do not expose him to additional stress of these additional examinations. In such a way, let me say, we have the opportunity to protect additional employees, and we assure ourselves. You know, maybe the elder doesn't have good information, maybe he has a colleague who wants to make mistakes and says he's not doing his job. But unfortunately, this solution was made because of those people in the MUP who play, who tend to go to sick leave and then go back to work for two days, so they ask for two days or three days to give blood and then go on vacation, from vacation to sick again and so on for years. Those people who spend 10, 12, 14, 15 hours working in the MUP, they turn out naive. Then they say, "I'm sorry, we're getting the same pay, and we killed each other working." Indeed, people died working. Then you have those people who think it's just a great way to, you know, say Americans, have a free lunch. We now tell them – there is no free lunch, if you want to work, you work and they should be paid for it. Those who don't want to work, then they have to prove for real that there's a reason why they don't work, not that they're having a good time or anything. No one here argues that those people who are really sick will have any right to be treated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47277	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Thank you. Members of the 195th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic, with correction, and together by Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Corovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 206th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Home Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 206th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Thank you. Member of the 207th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Thank you. The 207th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Thank you. Members of the 207th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47278	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is also necessary to point out one thing that we have noticed in Article 207 concerning serious injuries to official duty. There are at least two points here that, I think, leave a big space for possible abuse, and since we have in Article 207. 29 points in which serious violations of official duty have been numbered, it seems to us, to me now, Minister Stefanovic, that the two may still be too high. Here, for example, point seven. It is said that there are serious injuries to official duty, and at point 7 it says, behaviour that damages the ministry's reputation. Of course, this is how it is said - the behavior that damages the ministry's reputation is a serious violation of official duty, but on what basis are we going to now and how do we determine that some behavior is exactly like that? Is it possible to imagine in this previous situation that someone would want to hurt someone a little bit, to make mistakes, to create a barrier for them, and then just say, in Article 7, there is that in this law, so I'm going to stop you from making any further progress, so I'm going to charge you with a serious violation of official duty? Or, for example, point 26. says — a serious violation of official duty is any other behavior or circumstance that damages the reputation of the ministry. What's the big deal here? Any kind of space left for arbitration once or more people, I think, should be excluded from the legislative project. If you think it's necessary for these formulations to stand, that it's a standard, that it wasn't, for example, and so far, in similar solutions, a large number of abuses, then fine. But here I am as some man who's not directed to the job of the police and now that I know these structures and what it looks like to me, as a reader of this law, as a citizen who's interested in this law, it seems that there are possibilities of abuse. And there shouldn't be any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47279	Member of the 207th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 207th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. On Article 207 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, together with MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted together. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 209. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 209 of the amendment. The 210th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Members of the 210th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to Article 211 of the amendment. Members of the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic, together submitted the 212th amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the amendment to Article 213. The 214th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 215. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the amendment to Article 215. Members of the 215th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 217th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 217, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The People's MPs of the Democratic Party's Group submitted together to Article 217 of the amendment. Members of the 218th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and joint MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. On behalf of the members and members of the 222nd Amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47280	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as soon as I come across the coin - parliamentary control, I am particularly interested in matter, since my experience for these years and eight, nine, months, is that instead of our National Assembly being more intensively controlled and supervised by the actions of the executive government, here, as a minister appears, from the ruling majority of applause of approval, instead of caution, imagination, preparedness for criticism, etc. For example, Article 222 states: "The National Assembly is overseeing the work of the ministry directly and through the competent committee on internal affairs," and then said: "The Committee is particularly considering semi-annual and extraordinary safety reports, considering semi-annual and extraordinary reports on the work of the ministry, considering annual reports on the work of the Internal Control Sector". That consideration can again come down to these applauses, smiles, etc. Dear gentlemen, it is different if we put it on – it also considers adoption. Here I am, as a member, going there to vote, to see how many were there for, how many were against, etc. Mr Stefanovic, indeed the amendment of four SNS MPs who are the same, and I'm not going back to that topic now, I mean, it doesn't replace what we suggested. Because we want the committee and the adoption of these reports - half-yearly and annually, on the state of security, the work of the Ministry and the work of the Internal Control Sector. If we had these formulations, then this title – parliamentary control, would indeed be appropriate. If there is no such thing, then, Minister Stefanovic, it is stated, as it is said here – for the sake of the story. We are not going to bring parliamentary control down on those two words – the reason for the story, but that it really exists. I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47281	The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 222. On behalf of members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinović, Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Gordana Komic. Mr. Sutanovac, you can't follow this amendment, you're not a pronoun. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 224. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Mrs. Marija Obradovic, chairman of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, is not present. The amendment should regulate the relations between the internal control sector and the Republika Srpska Assembly. In fact, we have proposed that the Head of the Internal Control Sector submit to the National Assembly of Serbia, at least once a year, a report on the work of the Internal Control Sector, as well as extraordinary reports at the request of the MPs. I will remind you that there is also a Security Control Committee in the Assembly, and that Committee, the Security Inspector-General, is reporting to the Security Service, whether at our request, whether by automation. Here, counterpart Meho Omerovic, colleague Vanja Vukic, knows that's how it happens. The internal control of Serbia's MUP, the internal control sector, is a pandan for the general inspector in the security services. It says here, in the draft law – the internal control sector in the course of three months, which is an extremely long period and I don't know why you put in three months, since the end of the calendar year publicly publishes a work report for the previous year. So, we have a situation that the sector will publish publicly, but the sector will also, by law, have no obligation to come to parliament, to meet the MPs, as the Inspector General has obligation. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Babić, as head of the largest parliamentary group, I urge you to appeal to all MPs, this is a matter that has been accepted by the Security Control Committee and by the parties of the ruling coalition and by the opposition. I think it's something to accept. It does not burden the sector's work in any way, and parliament will have insight, as the inspector general has in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47283	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 224. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted the amendment to Article 224. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted the amendment to Article 225. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic submitted the 227th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, submitted the amendment to Article 228. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 230. Thank you. On Article 230 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Thank you. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, submitted to the 230th amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 230th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 232. Thank you. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment to Article 233. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Thank you. The 233rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted an amendment to Article 237. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47284	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47285	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find the minister has accepted this amendment. Member of the 240th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic, Nenad Nikolic, submitted the amendment to Article 249. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarians Dejan Nikolic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragoljub Micunovic together submitted the amendment. The parliamentary group of MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 251 of the amendment. Members of the 253rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 257th Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and jointly Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47286	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 257 is the last amendment that we People's MPs of the New Party have submitted to the proposal for a law on police, and of course, I want to take advantage of this occasion to declare my satisfaction, that we MPs of the New Party have contributed to making a legislative project more precise by its content. Of course, we're sorry that we haven't eliminated all those doubts about arbitration and intransparency, but we're certainly going to get involved in the preparation, maybe modifying and supplementing this law, so that what some shortcomings are, to correct or try in such a way. Of course, I am also pleased that the debate is taking so long, which has been very argumentative, and at some point very good and, of course, particularly pleased, I am here expressing my acceptance of the number of amendments that we, the MPs of the New Party and the satisfaction that our starting position for these extraordinary parliamentary elections, Minister Stefanovic, is 9.4%, an independent performance for a year and nine months since we have been in the Assembly, for three and a half years as many parties, I think that is a huge reason for pleasure, because our actions, I mean contributions, to the general good of all the citizens of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47287	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47288	I think this really was a correct and good debate, that we had a chance to talk about everything people need to know about the Police Act. Only I think Mr. Pavicevic underestimates the coalition capacity of the entire coalition, so he can certainly earn up to 12%. I don't know at this point, but in the election all these parties can make at least 12% in the election, and I think that's one decent result. I don't think it'll be below 10%. If that score gets better, you might as well be the Home Secretary, so you have a chance to propose a new law on police, not just to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47289	Thank you, Mr. Minister. So, Pavic's 8% and all the other 4%, that's 12%, you're right. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47290	I will in this spirit and finish today's debate, Mr. Minister, and I fully agree with all of what you said about whether someone will throw up to 10%, 12%, truth, you're talking about coalitions, but something's not going well with those coalitions. We can see that there's a problem with what's been torn and quarreled in the years behind us, it's going to be hard to put together. One small remark, though I support the activities of the MPs of the people, but there is one saying that I will say, in our people, only half or half, and that is, that people hold on to a word and something else to something else. Today at the beginning of this debate, Mr Pavicevic gave his word that he would not talk about the amendments that were accepted and yet he did not complete the word. Therefore, if he has not fulfilled it, he will hardly fulfill any pre-election promise, and I think it will nevertheless be recognised and adequately rewarded or punished by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47291	Replica, MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47292	Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is true, Mr. Babic is right, I announced this morning that I would not discuss the amendments that were accepted and that at one point I had decided at one point due to a fundamental change in the circumstances of an atmosphere that was created here, a good atmosphere, and it seemed fair to me that I was not discussing two unaccepted amendments, so that I would leave room for discussion at the very end of an accepted amendment. I don't think it was the right thing to do, because I think this thinking was based on one honesty and one judgment that didn't hurt anyone here. Well, thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47293	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You're right, I didn't resent you, you're correct, even on three amendments you didn't answer for a word, unaccepted. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 258. The Committee for Defence and Home Affairs submitted the amendment to Article 258. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47294	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-22-0.u47295	Thank you. I find the minister has accepted the amendment of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. I thank Mr. Minister for his participation in today's session and also for all the members of the cabinet for this constructive debate that we had today at the pleasure of all the MPs. I thank all the People's MPs for their participation until these hours at today's session. Continuing Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
