ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49850	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Branko Ružic, Olena Papuga. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the agenda set out in the request of the Government as soon as possible. Also, according to Article 86(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that there has been a shift in the beginning of this session due to the inability of the proposing representatives to attend the session at the initial scheduled time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda, contained in that request. As you could see for the session of the 5th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2016, the next Dn e n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming; 5. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context; 6. Proposal for a law on the validation of amendments and additions to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. National MP Igor Bečić, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 150(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principled Single Search on - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Nature, Proposal for a Law amending the Convention on the Impact Assessment of the Environment in the cross-border context and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Does MP Igor Becic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that the vote was – 146 against – two abstentions – was not voted by 10, out of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Dr. Srdjan Verbić, Minister of Education, Untaught and Technological Development, Dr. Stan Božović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Vera Dondur, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Aleksandar Vesić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Nenad Katanić and Mladen Mladenov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Aleksandra Posić, Gordana Petković and Ružica Tripić, Head of the Department of the Department of Agriculture and Environmental Protection and Mirko Novaković and Tina Janjatović, independent advisers at the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda for items 1 to 6 and before the opening of the search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) of Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a common principle-based Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Nature, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context and Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Is the word of the proposing representative, Prof. Dr. Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49851	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to be able to explain to you today the proposals of four extremely important laws to protect the environment and agriculture, as well as two laws on the validation of international contracts that regulate important issues in these areas. It is my pleasure to expire that their adoption of the National Assembly will adopt a total of 22 draft laws proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection in the current term of two years. Today you are facing the following draft laws – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Waste Management, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Nature, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Transboundary Context of the ESC Convention, as well as a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Dear People's MPs, allow me to begin today's presentation with an extremely significant proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law aim to contribute to the establishment of continuity predictability in the environmental financing system, to a greater degree of compliance of the regulations of the Republic of Serbia with European Union rules, as well as to greater mutual compliance with domestic rules, and thus to a more efficient application of records in this area. One of the key changes and additions to this law is the establishment of continuity and predictability in the system of financing environmental protection, the establishment of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, as a budgetary fund in accordance with the Budget System Act. The justification for the introduction of the Green Fund, as a budget fund, is seen as being aimed at improving environmental protection. The achievement of this objective requires in the coming years and significant infrastructure investments. The total costs of the EU's environmental promotion are estimated at around 11.5 billion euros up to 2030 for the use of EU grants through IPA funds for the financing of infrastructure projects in this area, it is necessary to guarantee a stable and continuous source of co-financing by the Republic of Serbia and local self-government units of between 15% and 30% of the total investment. The establishment of the Green Fund as a budget fund is particularly in the role of investment in improving the quality of the environment. This means, among other things, reducing the negative impact on the health of the population, the recovery of polluted locations, the removal of historical waste from enterprises in restructuring and bankruptcy, the improvement of waste management systems and waste water, the development of recycling industry, the establishment of a green economy and support for the development of green business, and in particular support for creating conditions for job creation, etc. green employment. Significant changes and additions to this law also concern ensuring more efficient availability of information on the environment and participation of citizens in decision-making. This law proposes solutions that are in line with the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Access to Information, the participation of citizens in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters with the Environment Information Access Directive, as well as the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Matter. The proposed solutions also concern the establishment and management of a national electronic database and a national register with a view to enabling citizens to have easy, fast and easy access to information on the environment and to advance the overall achievement of information from this area. This will be achieved by enabling users to easily find the desired information, direct access to documents available in electronic form, as well as contact details of competent institutions for submission of requests for access to information that is not available on the Internet. In the context of the availability of information, the law will have an impact on the public, i.e. citizens who will have a greater opportunity to come to information more efficiently and faster on the environment, competent authorities, or the Ministry of Environmental Protection and other competent authorities and organisations that possess environmental information in terms of mandatory, faster and more efficient delivery of information on the environment of citizens, contaminants, because citizens will easily come up with information on the nature and extent of pollution as well as on the source of pollution and thus create additional pressure on the polluter to take environmental protection measures. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment have also been made to the law with relevant international agreements and regulations of the EU, particularly in the part of the treatment of the use and disposal of mud remaining after the purification of municipal waste water and technological waste water, international transport on endangered species of wild flora and fauna, voluntary participation in the organisation and management system of the environment, the achievement of the objectives of protection, management and planning of areas, as well as organisations, co-operation in this area within Europe. Dear People's MPs, allow me to continue my presentations also on a very important bill on amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act. The proposed amendments and additions to this law on the one hand aim to bring the rules of the Republic of Serbia into line with EU regulations and more effective application of domestic regulations in this area, on the other hand, to contribute to the development of the economy, to ensuring continuity in the work of new plants that are subject to the issue of an integrated authorisation, to the establishment of continuity in the waste management system, including the management of specific waste flows, and to contribute to the establishment of a circulatory, or green economy. In a situation where the economy carries much of the result of the economic crisis, as well as the definitions of the Republic of Serbia to support the economic initiatives of this law, new economic operators on the market and the strengthening of competition are allowed to emerge. This law creates additional opportunities to invest in the construction of new facilities, i.e. the implementation of market standards and the provision of legal certainty regarding the application of modern European and national regulations in this area. The proposed amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act specifically relate to the obligations of the waste hierarchy, the reuse and recycling objectives, the essential responsibility of the waste management producer, the obligation to collect separately and to treat biowaste, the requirements relating to a high degree of energy efficiency. One of the major changes and additions to existing legislation is the transposition of the Waste Framework Directive in the form of the introduction of the concepts – the discontinuation of waste status and by-products, which will significantly facilitate business operations of operators, reduce existing costs and contribute to the development of the circular economy and the creation of new jobs. By suspending the status of waste or by introducing a by-product of waste, it receives the nature of the goods and its use and its treatment receives a expressed commercial value, which will ensure the emergence of new operators on the market. One of the important changes and additions is also the alignment with the Law on Integrated Prevention and Control of Contaminants. The proposed changes and additions would ensure continuity in the work of new facilities subject to the issue and integration of licences for the period from the completion of the test work to the acquisition of an integrated authorisation. Such a solution significantly contributes to the development of the economy and prevents large costs from being incurred by economic operators due to the suspension of the work of these plants over the period from completing the test work to obtaining an integrated permit, and the legal deadline is to remind you, 240 days. Another reason for the proposed changes and additions is to specify certain provisions relating to the procedure and conditions for the withdrawal of the authorisation of laboratories for the examination of waste, the content of the requirements and authorisations for the disposal of waste to dumps and technical treatment of waste, as well as the reasons for the imposition of changes or withdrawal of the authorisation. This law also recognises the need for offices to be treated by participants in treatment and traffic so that traffic and treatment takes place in a transparent, legal and efficient way that benefits all traffic participants. In order to achieve such a goal, it is necessary to introduce an institution of a regulated waste market that will enable insight and control of the amount and type of waste generated in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as its flows. Through the organised waste market, trade and waste and waste material is introduced into legal flows which eliminates corruption, illegal waste market, unfair competition and enables an increase in budget revenues based on increased VAT collection, but also other related tax obligations. The development of competition and sound market conditions would also lead to a reduction in waste disposal prices. Trading through an organised waste market is of national importance for the transport of secondary raw materials and recycling industry in Serbia because this protects domestic interests in the field of waste treatment by reducing the gray area, introduces order, while defining uncontrolled exports of waste. In addition, it is estimated that by 2019 only three special streams of plastic waste and edible oil and electronic waste could find around 8,000 employees. The proposed amendments and additions to this law relating to the classification of waste management operators will contribute to the establishment of clear rules and procedures, increased transparency in the field of waste management, the promotion of competitiveness and the reduction of the risk of inadequate waste disposal, as well as the promotion of investment in the waste management system, investments in the higher level of recycling, i.e. the acquisition of finished products, not semi-products or secondary raw materials, as well as the overall improvement of the overall waste management system. Dear People's MPs, I will continue my presentation by reason of another important law that is before you today, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. As you know, the territory of the Republic of Serbia covers 6.51% of protected areas and as such belongs to one of the most significant centres of biodiversity in Europe, with a number of specific ecosystems. As the most preserved and most precious form of nature and significant centres of biodiversity, protected areas and areas of the ecological network on the territory of the Republic of Serbia are protected in accordance with national legislation and international contracts. The aim of this law is, above all, to preserve the natural values that already exist in these areas, which could be developed and must be directed towards the preservation of the surrounding values of this area, which is a system of sustainable development, that is, the coherence of economic and social development, on the one hand, and the protection of nature, on the other hand. Amendments to the Nature Protection Act define specific terms that are consistent with the terms used in ratified international agreements in the field of protection of biodiversity. The responsibility of the Ministry of Environmental Protection shall be determined, to give consent to sectoral plans and programmes for the use of natural resources in protected areas and areas of the ecological network, in particular in the light of the obligation to comply with the international commitments and the European legislation in the field of nature protection. The proposed amendments shall be achieved in a whole closer alignment with Article 6. European Habitats Directives. It is also proposed to implement the acceptability assessment procedure in order to regulate this procedure more precisely and to establish the whole process more comprehensively which will be regulated by the relevant regulation. A provision relating to the use of funds in the name of compensation measures has been specified, and via the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, the concept of geoparks as clearly defined areas within which protection, protection, presentation and promotion of geonassal objects is introduced into the legislation. Amendments to the Nature Protection Act provide that the ministry shall inform the public of the procedure for the implementation of the protection of the natural area of the first, second or third category on the Ministry's website. It is also specified that the financing of the protected area is made from the resources of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia in line with the proposed amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. By amending this law, the guardian of the protected area gets official status. The amendments to the Nature Protection Act also improve the national and legislative framework for implementing the provisions of the Convention on International Transport to endangered species of wild flora and fauna, i.e. The CITES Convention, while at the same time providing an appropriate legal basis for full compliance with EU rules governing cross-border traffic and trade in wild species. The adoption of appropriate legislative solutions at national level will be one of the main grounds for combating illegal trafficking in wild species, since the Republic of Serbia, as a signator of the CITES Convention, has an obligation to protect wild flora and fauna against excessive and illegal trade, both domestic and globally. The alignment with the European Directive on the keeping of wild animals in zoos introduces specific licensing and control of zoos. Certain measures have been prescribed to sanction wild-type offences, which will further improve the implementation of the CITES Convention. The provided criminal provisions enable the sanctioning of illegal actions related to cross-border traffic, trade and the holding of specimens of wild species for which no appropriate sanctions are prescribed in the current law. Dear People's MPs, there is also a draft law in the area of agriculture today. It is about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on cattle farming. For the past ten years, we have witnessed a drastic decline in our country's livestock stock. The most important reasons for this are the termination of the work of a large number of companies and cooperatives in this area, which were production operators, the reduction of the number of rural populations, but also the lack of organisation of producers during market appearances. The reduction in livestock production would also be greater if, year by year, different measures by the ministry did not improve the production of domestic animal characteristics and did not encourage this branch of agriculture. The negative trend is a great effort and fortunately halted, and in the last two years, the cattle fund in the Republic of Serbia has shown a slight trend in growth. Certainly, one of the basic reasons for the adoption of this law is the need to stop the further decline of livestock production, especially when it comes to the fact that today's state of livestock in the Republic of Serbia is not in line with our potential in this agricultural sector. In addition, since the current Law on cattle farming has been in place for nearly seven years, time has shown the need to improve it, as well as to address the shortcomings observed during its application. Stopping the decline in livestock production can only be ensured if it continues to work to improve the genetic potential of domestic animals. In addition, it is important to ensure that our farmers have better access to information that is important for the improvement of production, as well as that their quality products are competitive with products from European countries, and that these amendments and additions to the laws are achieved. The proposed changes more precisely define the competences of the livestock subjects and the conditions that breeders, those implementing the breeding programme, should also meet. Another newspaper of these amendments and additions is the inclusion of beekeeping associations in implementing the provisions of this law, both through the collection of information that is relevant for their production and through their timely notification of various activities that may affect their production. The proposed amendments and additions to this law are regulated in a new way by the cultivation of game, in order to meet the requirements of well-being and to prevent the violation of biodiversity through the introduction of animal species that our country is not a natural habitat. Given that the EU accession process before the Republic of Serbia requires that all producers on the European market meet, this law introduces a very important novelty in the fisheries sector. The paper is the introduction of catch certificates, which becomes an increasingly important item at international level, because the fish fund in the seas and oceans is necessary to preserve and prevent illegal, not registered and not regulated fishing. Although this primarily applies to marine fisheries, unless we establish a system of control through the mentioned certificates, we can find ourselves in an unfavourable situation for economic operators dealing with the processing of marine fish in our country to be prohibited from international transport to their products. Acceptance and harmonisation of uniform standards, guidelines and recommendations developed by international organisations enables more aggressive and faster appearance and faster access to the world agricultural market. In order to establish quality control of products of animal origin and to improve the quality of these products, it is necessary to prescribe the conditions to be met. The regulation of these conditions allows for the adoption of a quality-description regulation in accordance with the European classification. Manufacturers thus receive practical benefits, as when buying their products, a classification obligation is introduced, in the same way as it is applied in other countries. An important element of this law is the introduction of a border veterinary inspection into controls that will enable the implementation of requirements relating to the control of fisheries products and to the prevention of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the adoption of this law and the harmonisation of our legislation with European legislation will create conditions for the extension and improvement of domestic production to be realised through greater trade, greater exports and through greater competitiveness of our producers with their colleagues from European countries. Dear People's MPs, it is my great pleasure to be able to briefly explain to you the proposal for a bill to confirm the amendment to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context. These are amendments to the ESPO Convention. The Republic of Serbia has been a party to this Convention since 2007. The main objective of the Convention is to prevent, reduce and limit significant cross-border damages which may be caused by a project or activity. The need to confirm the amendment to the Convention is conditioned by the fact that the interests of project operators or investors are often opposed to the social interest in protecting and improving the quality of the environment. In order to reconcile conflicting interests, it is necessary to carry out the evaluation process consistently, the way in which it is verified and to ensure public insight into the document made. Full accession to the Convention, including confirming the amendment to it, creates preconditions for obtaining funding from international investment projects organisations to build new or reconstruct existing facilities in our country. Some of the basic issues to be addressed to this Amendment are: the extension of the meaning of the definition of the public, the rights of the Parties to the Convention in relation to the implementation of an impact assessment procedure in the cross-border context, the lists of projects required to assess the impact and the lists of projects for which environmental impact assessment may be required, as well as many other issues. At the very end, let me also say a few words about the bill on confirming amendments and the addition of the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials. The proposed changes and additions contribute to strengthening the regimes of physical protection and national nuclear security, in order to protect the population and the environment. They extend the delirious and obligation of the contracted party to protect and nuclear facilities, i.e. nuclear material used for peaceful purposes, warehouses and transport within national borders. The aim of the amendment and addition of that Convention is to strengthen the comprehensive nuclear security and physical protection of nuclear facilities and nuclear materials through: globally achieving and maintaining effective physical protection of nuclear material and nuclear objects used for peaceful purposes; preventing and combating criminal acts relating to such material and facilities; facilitating the co-operation of contracting parties. I remind you that the basic Convention has been in force since the 1980s, and the proposed changes and additions have been signed by our country in 2005. Due to changes and additions, the compatibility of the regimes in international frameworks is established and international requirements are brought into line, especially with the standards and recommendations of the IAEA, harmonisation with European Union legislation is made easier to improve international co-operation with other countries and international and regional organisations, and in particular with the countries of the environment. When the Convention comes into force this way, its changes will significantly affect the vulnerability of the Contracting States to nuclear terrorism. Dear People's MPs, by adopting the proposed law, the Republic of Serbia will make a significant step towards protecting the environment and our natural values, improve international co-operation and extend the potential for the development of agriculture and economy. Given the importance of these areas, I believe that the proposed laws will come upon your approval and that you will support them in the voting day by a large majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49852	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? I'm sorry, do the committees want the word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49853	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would just like to say to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment that, while the draft of these laws in the field of the environment, we have been doing two public hearings and that this is a practice that will be in the future, when it comes to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. In these public hearings, we have well analyzed these laws while they were in the draft and gave opportunity to the NGOs and MPs to get acquainted with this and this co-operation between the Committee and the Ministry is very effective, so that we have managed in some way to engage in the adoption of this law and the public, the non-governmental sector, MPs, even before he arrived at the government and came in the form of the proposal. It is a new direction of thinking and a new direction of work of this Committee, and I think it has come across full approval and support, both NGOs and the Ministry and all MPs involved in this work. It was just one piece of information, to know that these amendments and additions to the law were thoroughly prepared and that in some ways this is the crown of co-operation that finally took place in Serbia between the Assembly, on the one hand, the Ministry, on the other hand and the NGO sector on the third hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49854	Thank you. The word is held by MP Dragan Jovanovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49855	Dear Chairman, Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, at the very beginning, it is my pleasure that we have this set of amendments to the law today on the agenda and that we can support it. Of course, what I always say at first on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club is, when we have such extensive amendments to individual laws, and especially laws that are as important as the laws on the protection of nature, the laws on waste management and, of course, amending and supplementing the Law on cattle farming, it is better to pass new laws, but this is also a significant step forward. At the very beginning, I will stick to the Nature Protection Act and I will try a few examples to explain first and foremost to citizens who are following this transmission what I personally and what citizens of the Republic of Serbia can expect first of all from these changes and the addition of the Nature Protection Act. Unfortunately, we've had a rather messy situation so far. The Republic of Serbia is preparing for accession negotiations with the European Union. We have a whole chapter 27, where we have, unfortunately, a situation in Serbia that, I must say, is quite difficult. I became the president of the municipality of Topola in late 2004, and at the first step, I encountered a huge problem that was not only the Topola and Shumadi at the time, but many cities and municipalities in Serbia, for example. The problem of nickel exploitation in Serbia. We were then trying to save ourselves as we knew and could, we managed, alarmed the citizens, of course the non-governmental sector, different respectable people, and we succeeded, and then the problem came again in 2012 to 2013, when the prices of mineral raw materials went to the sky and when we were in trouble again and when we were simply understanding, first of all, the current Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, managed to protect ourselves and, of course, with a good organisation, primarily the citizens, and the public alarming on the ground. Why am I saying this? I speak as an example of how when we have clearly undefined laws, it can be influenced that Serbia in the future, I must say, becomes one zone, not to be a rough, cemetery of multinational companies that will come to Serbia to exploit certain raw materials, and then in 10 years when it is exhausted, to leave certain environments completely ruined and destroyed. That's what I have to say because in Shumadia, I had a beautiful Vencac mountain that had been exploited for hundreds of years by a rock for calcium carbonate. You can see for yourself what it looks like today, because unfortunately because of the under-clear and defined laws in which companies that get investigative exploitation rights need to behave when this exploitation right closes or when the investigative rights are finished, we unfortunately have consequences that are catastrophic on the ground. As a result, Your Honor, I would also like to ask you to comment together on Article 5 of the Amendment to the Law, which in Article 20(3) of the existing law changes and reads: "the community of the local self-government unit regulates the conditions of protection, the way in which they raise and maintain and restore the destroyed public green areas, as well as the management of public green areas data". A quite general definition, which I would like to hear more later than you, an explanation will it help local self-government to make its own special decisions after making this protection law and to try to make a particular area of particular interest for the development of local self-government, whether it is agriculture, tourism or something else, will it succeed in protecting its own decisions to protect the ministries separately without the knowledge of local self-government giving investigative rights to multinational companies, above all, for certain ores and raw materials? That's what I'd like to hear from you. My second question concerns, Your Honor, one of my parliamentary questions that I asked you last year for a resurrection, but unfortunately I didn't get a clearly defined answer. At that time, the public, and in particular the media, and my God, and the citizens of Šumadia were upset because it appeared in the newspaper front page, you probably saw that too, that the river Kubršnica, which flows through the municipalities of Arangelovac, Topola and Smederjevska Palanca, was completely colored in red blood. The citizens were very upset, as were the public. For days, the media was buzzing about it, especially in the days of Easter, and there was, of course, some other symbolism. I asked a clear parliamentary question -- who's to blame, and who's responsible, and are the factories that are tied up in that part, above all to the processing of stone, which one of them is and in what way has polluted the river Kubršnica? It's undeniable that there's been pollution. Unfortunately, why am I asking that question again? Without a clearly defined response to the provision of local powers of inspection authorities, we unfortunately have a situation where such issues remain unanswered. That no one is responsible, that jurisdiction, what locals are, what are Republic environmental inspectors, what is whose jurisdiction. Then we have a clear situation that citizens are then left to themselves, above all, are left to the public, that if the media gets out that and then ministry services get a little bit more zealous and work faster. And for that reason, please, if you think that the situation here is fixed and clearly defined, then you need to define more clearly the responsibility of inspection and jurisdiction between the republican and local authorities. When I mentioned the pollution of the Kubršnica River, I mentioned, of course, there is always a reasonable doubt that the factories that are in the upper course of that river have done so, but what I would especially point out in the amendment of this Nature Protection Act in Article 6 or Article 33 of the 6th Amendment, and in Article 23 of the old law after Article 2, new positions 3 and 5 are added, which are read – that the legal person or entrepreneur who has a wastewater treatment facility or should build it, and I particularly stress this, or should build it, and now because of the lack of time, because we have to talk about other laws and not read everything, but what is the point. I think that in this definition you leave too long and not sufficiently clearly defined in which time period they need such factories and such plants to build a wastewater treatment plant and to clearly distinguish who is responsible for their control. It is of great importance to me that this law could in any case clearly be brought into practice. To talk about the Nature Protection Act, and of course to immediately refer to the Waste Management Act is simply impossible and therefore I will try in this presentation and touch myself clearly one piece and another. What I'm always trying to say is through examples, because we're witnesses of all of us who've been to some sort of responsible place, which, according to local self-government, is what the situation is like. Unfortunately, in practice in Serbia, as far as municipal waste is concerned, this is also a matter of wild dumps, which are unfortunately unsettled sanitary dumps. I must say that I was fortunate to run a local self-government that is the only one in Serbia, and I also have the gratitude for Mrs Bozovic sitting next to you, who is the Secretary of State for Environmental Protection, who has helped us to carry out the private public partnership procedure and to be the only municipality, I am talking about the municipality of Topol, which has arranged to take out garbage from virtually every household even from the farthest rural area. Why am I telling you this? Because I think until they settle in an adequate manner by local self-government, until the wild dumps are settled, we will have this situation in Serbia which I have to say is extremely alarming and which, in the right sense, appeared after those huge floods in 2014 when we had an amazing picture of you as a real apocalypse where by the local words that were poured out, you had huge amounts of various garbage and various debris. What's good about the bill is that you've predicted a way of managing the dumps. You've also predicted respected ministers that I fully support that local self-governments clearly write and define all wild deposits in the territory of local self-government. That's a good thing. What I would ask you to pay attention to, and therefore, on behalf of myself and on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I have submitted one amendment, which is an amendment to Article 24. The waste management law where I say that local self-governments that use non-sanitary dumps and which are not in the regional sanitary disposal system of municipal waste would be defined as contaminants. And that as contaminants when they define themselves if they can't do it alone, they can't, or they don't know that they're solving the issue of brown and they're getting rid of their territory, so they're putting a certain amount of money into what I like, so-called. The green fund of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, and then the Serbian government has the means to intervene and regulate these wild dumps throughout Serbia from that green fund. Anyone who sits in a car and heads towards any tourist centre in Serbia can see how many of these dumps they have. Although local self-governments are not able to handle it themselves, then it is an appropriate way to do so by a nice ministry, while these same local self-governments are investing funds in the Republic budget. Also, I have proposed another amendment, and it concerns so-called mobile waste treatment facilities. And we agree, here we agreed that it is necessary for certain companies to have certain companies, so whether they are companies or entrepreneurs that are easier to have a mobile waste treatment facility within their businesses can get consent from local self-government and do not have to be exposed to additional costs to drive their waste to regional dumps. But what's the point? You have companies that simply do not have the right space to take a third location in their salary, yard or in some third place, so we have suggested that they can take a third location, which is Article 2 point 14 so that a third location that is much closer to that entrepreneur or legal person, and of course that meets all the conditions has the consent of local self-government and we believe that this law can be applied more effectively. What I just wanted to look back on in a short time was buyers, or companies dealing with the purchase of secondary raw materials. I have to say, Madam Ministers, that these companies have experienced some, say, boom in development by 2008 and 2009, when we had the highest prices of secondary raw materials at that time, but unfortunately, and we are now at the beginning of 2016, they are very, very, very difficult. You've given us a lot of information here in the material and in the light of this law, I thank you for that, but for one thing I ask you to pay attention, and that's one sentence that I now, in this explanation, have to find where I am so far, was the practice and the situation that people who buy out secondary raw materials and secondary raw materials can freely export whether they're from cardboard, iron and everything else. You gave us here information that 67% of the waste exported from the territory of the Republic of Serbia is going to the iron, and about 10 comas something on the cardboard and on the paper. But please, did you, in the proposed bill, completely prevent companies dealing with the purchase of secondary raw materials from exporting in the future, from saying free secondary raw materials? What does that mean? In that explanation you gave us, it is said that they can only do so after, I say, fill the Serbian market. At this point, we have a major crisis in the metal complex, not only in Serbia, but in Europe and the world at all, but in Europe and in the world, and you say at one point that only when the Serbian market is possibly filled, what remains as an excess will be able to be exported. Now, I'm asking you -- if someone in the Serbian market doesn't get an adequate price for their product, do you use this law to limit him from being able to export his goods? First of all, these people are in a difficult situation, yet to say just because of one fact by 2012, citizens who taught secondary raw materials were exempt from paying taxes on citizens' income. Since 1 January 2016, they must for products whether they are cars, whether they are some other appliances that contain them now, and when citizens bought them paid VAT, they now have to pay twice, so they paid taxes when they bought the car and now when they sell it, as secondary raw materials they have to pay their taxes once again. This is an additional problem, which not only because of the fall in raw materials prices has made it more difficult for legal persons, those legal entities in the Republic of Serbia currently employ more than 50,000 workers. Therefore, I ask you to pay attention to this, simply these companies dealing with traffic and the purchase of secondary raw materials, because this is a very important problem, which, I say, feeds a large number of families in Serbia. Because of the lack of time, I'm just going to take a brief look at the amendments to the cattle law. In the opening part, you mentioned legitimate reasons and I fully agree with them, which led to the reduction of the livestock fund in the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the reduction of the number of inhabitants in the rural area and all the woes and bad, I must say, the negotiated SAA. But what I must mention to you, Madam Minister, is the mistakes made in the agricultural subsidy policy. One example, I have to ask you and take advantage of the opportunity, which is, I asked a parliamentary question about ten days ago, and it concerns milk subsidies. Look, we have a large number of families living in hill-mounted areas. I think the subsidy regulation that can only be given to those producers who hand over more than 3,000 liters per quarter is for citizens living in the rural area one, to say, an unattainable limit. I think the interests of me who has a five-year-old child, and all of us who give money from our taxes for these subsidies, are that our children, above all, drink healthy milk. So we're not interested in whether the manufacturer teaches 10 or 100 liters of milk a day, we're interested in the quality of that milk. I ask you, if you think that there is an increase in the stock fund in Serbia, the chance of doing so first of all in small producers who have one, two or three cattle throats at the moment, I am talking first of all about cows, they are a chance to increase the livestock fund in Serbia in a quick and efficient way. In order to do so, you must first of all amend the Regulation on the subsidy of milk premiums and therefore ask you to do so because it will be a prerequisite, above all, with all these measures that you have provided for in this law, for things to be improved in Serbia and for things to go in a better direction. I thank you. New Serbia will vote in principle for the bill. I hope you accept our amendments. Thank you. I thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by Minister Dr Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49856	Thank you. Dear People's MP, first of all, I would like to thank you for your detailed discussion and for the discussion that has arisen certainly from the serious consideration of all the proposed legal solutions that we present to you here today. You've asked a lot of questions. I understood the questions in the context of clarifying some legal solutions and I will answer some of these questions now, let me answer when it comes to discussing the amendments that you have already announced. Here, I'd start with what you finally pointed out, and it's about milk premiums, about subsidizing livestock production. You have pointed out that we pay milk premiums, i.e. to subsidize only quantities that are at least 3,000 liters quarterly, i.e. larger than this lower limit. I immediately have to tell you that we subsidize, or that we pay milk premiums and for smaller quantities, for quantities of 1500 litres of milk quarterly and for breeders living in marginal areas, that is those undeveloped parts of Serbia and at higher altitudes. So we respect this specificity and respect the producers who live in these areas, and that's why the boundaries are lower for them. As for 3,000 liters of milk, quarter to you, that seems to be a lot, but I have to say that these are the amounts that can be achieved by raising only two cows. As for livestock production, the ministry is really working very hard and the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to support livestock, not only large, in terms of a large number of breeding animals, but also those of smaller producers. So, you know, apart from the milk premium, we're setting out incentives for high-quality breeding throats of 25,000 per throat. Not only that, we help manufacturers in a simpler, cheaper way to get new animals, to increase their herds. You know that we've allocated funds that we subsidized loans for the purchase of animals, so our farmers in previous years could have reached quality animals with a fixed interest rate of 4%. This year that rate will be even lower than 3%. I want to tell you all of this because we really support livestock production as much as possible through subsidisation and through various other measures. What's good and what I want to say and just point out, these are the results we have in this production. You know, after years of age, you can say a decades-long decline in the number of cattle stock, or a reduction in livestock stock, we've recorded a positive trend over the last two years, a rise line. Of course, it's a stop and that trend isn't great, but it's certainly encouraging, and it just assures us that we're on the right track. If we've achieved in this area good results, here, I'll show you this graph. I think our MPs can spot this graphic depiction, where the red pillars show the number of inkling animals in 2015, compared to the blue ones, where we have the number of inkling animals in 2014. So, when it comes to cattle, or cows, we have an increase in artificial animals by 16%, when it comes to sheep, a significant increase, we have an increase of more than 232%, it's similar when it comes to goats 259%, pigs 109%, slightly smaller percentage of pigs, and we have an increase in wrapped animal throats. So these are positive results that are clear, unambiguous, easily visible and easily measurable and they are certainly the result of the really strong support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our ministry precisely in this production, because we all know well, there is no developed agriculture without developed livestock. We found livestock really ruined, really in bad shape, and now we're doing everything we can to get it up, to put it on our feet, and I think we're, once again, on the right track, and we're on the right track, that's what the data I've shown you is telling us unequivocally. So, in this sense, our producers will continue to have maximum state support when it comes to milk production, meat production and other livestock products. As far as this section concerns environmental issues, you are simply all the laws, and even those individual provisions that are crucial, I will refer to a few of your questions. One of your questions was the interpretation of Article 5. The environmental law concerns the issue of liability, i.e. the jurisdiction of individual entities, when it comes to the arrangement of green areas. This article that you mentioned in fact is merely predicting that, when it comes to green areas, the competent municipal inspection, therefore, is a communal activity, which has to answer questions about the regulation of green areas. You mentioned the jurisdiction of our environmental inspection on individual issues, i.e. individual incident situations in the field of environmental protection, i.e. in the area of natural resources. You mentioned various phenomena in the rivers, etc. sanctioning, or criminal responsibility. I have to say that our inspection really with the capacities it has, I mean the human resources, is really working very hard to find it in each of these places, to determine the cause of the events, that this record, or to forward its findings to the competent institutions. It will work without doubt in the next period. We are trying to further define jurisdiction, responsibility, this law, but I must remind you that we expect a great deal from the Control Act, where we will include other fellow inspectors who will be able to support us, as well as our inspections will give them support in the control of individual sectors, individual actions, events and the environment, but also in other areas of life. As far as waste management matters are concerned, this law is really very important, that's what you said yourself. It is very important for the reason that he first introduces two extremely important concepts: it is byproduct and the discontinuation of waste status. The product refers to ash, to iron, to plaster, and the discontinuation of waste status is introduced for paper, for cardboard, plastic, glass, metal, etc. What are we doing with this law? We're actually reducing the amount of waste by introducing these two new concepts. These two new concepts are not introduced by accident. They are introduced for the purpose of the actual termination of waste status, i.e. by product becoming goods, they are also goods in all developed countries, goods that have their own useful value, and therefore have its commercial value. So it becomes a resource and that's what's very important. We're going to reduce the amount of waste that needs to be permanently taken care of and that needs to be taken care of safely, on the one hand. On the other hand, we're going to help our economic operators have smaller detachments based on environmental pollution. They will now have no waste for which they pay for care, for which they pay various environmental taxes, but will have goods that can be used. You know that ash can be largely used to build roads, and not only does ash, slags, get useful value, but we have the next result that applies to the protection of natural resources, so for both purposes, we won't have to use sand, gravel, and break the river troughs, etc. So a very big effect is being achieved in that part. What you specifically potentiate and what you're asking is whether it can be traded or not can be traded, so we can't ban trade, but we can put waste into legal flows. Because the fact is that in Serbia, waste trade operators, which deal with waste treatment, are often somewhere in an illegal zone, or as we say in the gray zone. We want to regulate the waste market to control the quantities and kinds of waste that are generated in our country, which are our resources, which will then be used in our industry, whether they're going to take place somewhere else. But what we want is to offer our raw materials to our operators, because that's our goal. Our goal is, in fact, to help the economy, to provide new raw materials for its work and to provide new investments, new jobs and new employment, and in no way is the goal of stopping someone from exporting them. Simply, we have a big paradox in Serbia. In previous years, here, these are graphs that show, these blue ones, how much we actually take out. In 2012, we exported over 600,000 tonnes and imported 220,000 tonnes. In 2013, 400,000 tonnes, it is not dangerous waste. In 2014, about 500,000 tonnes, and we imported about 240,000 tonnes. So, three times as much waste as we import. We have our capacities, we have space to expand the recycling industry, we have room for new jobs for our citizens, and we simply export that waste. In doing so, I say again, we want the waste market to be regulated through this law, that we have control over quantities, of types of waste, we want to establish loyal competition, to establish market conditions, to benefit the state, through collection and VAT, through tax collection, to benefit our recycling industry and economy as a whole, and to simply establish, to live in the right sense, those words green or circular economies, to employ our people, our workers. That's it. Maybe it's not bad to show you, I don't know how much you can see, this graphic display that shows where we're exporting everything, not just to the countries of Europe, but to other continents, and we're also importing it. We must treat the waste as our resources for our domestic needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49857	I thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, MP Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49858	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister and colleagues of the Ministry, the Honorable People's MPs, we were finally waiting to adopt, so I will call, in short, a package of environmental laws, which, if I'm not mistaken, was announced somewhere last September and here we are finally adopting them, first of all, for the introduction of a environmental fund. I'd like to start back a little bit in history, as I remember the beginnings of the formation of ministries after 2000. Namely, the preparation of these laws, which have now been amended, began sometime in 2001, 2002, at the time of the government of Zoran Djindjic, when the environment was a special ministry, and the minister was Mrs. Angelka Mihajlov. The preparation of the rules, in line with the EU directives and the regulations of Europe at all, human training or better to say capacity building, because then we were really moving after those 1990s from scratch, was funded by foreigners. If I'm not mistaken, you correct me, the government of Finland funded. The laws were prepared in that term, and were then adopted in 2004 at the time of the government of Kostunica when the Ministry was practically abolished and attached to science and since then, the environment has been almost in all governments a tenant, energy, construction, now agriculture, and it is known what kind of treatment they have, unfortunately, tenants. As authorities were changing, most often before the full term ended, so it will now be, in this area, wandering, moving two steps forward, three steps back, many EU countries have helped to train financially and humanely, to strengthen capacities from ministry to local self-government and to prepare to apply laws in this area, and today some of these countries are funding capacity building. I just want to remind you, let's say, help from Sweden, to form and train and equip the agencies for chemicals in 2009, which was abolished, which was abolished by the Government in 2012. Then, if you remember, when we passed the chemical laws, we talked a lot about it. Then there was the talk that all that stuff went to the Ministry. But here's the question, by the way -- have we ever found out what happened, what chemicals were caused by a sea of bees in due time, or why are we increasingly reading in the press to kill eagles, etc., birds? Simply, the state of chemicals in Serbia's territory, I don't have the impression now that I don't even know who they'd turn to. It was said to be part of the Ministry. The establishment of a fund for environmental protection in 2009, which was abolished by the government in September 2012. From then on, environmental pollution and natural resource charges continue to be charged in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act, but not in a dedicated fund, but in a joint fund and, so I call it, according to some of the information that I have so far been paid, every year up to seven billion dinars, which means that the budget has been paid to date, more than 20 billion, we will call it, green money, which we do not know whether it has been spent for environmental protection purposes or was simply a budget item and was spent according to the assessment of the finance minister. It is the eighth year that the Agreement, seven full, was signed in the eighth year that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, and Serbia is still in the early stage of preparing for the adoption and implementation of EU environmental flows and I think the abolition of the 2012 fund is one of the reasons for the slow achievement of EU standards. The situation in the field of environmental protection, as well as existing administrative and financial capacities, now do not correspond nearly to the demanding obligations in the area of the negotiating process for Chapter 27 – environmental protection and climate change, which will be one of the most expensive and demanding due to poor infrastructure, lack of administration and finance, as well as complex application of regulations. Serbia, apart from having to fully transpose all EU legislation in this area, covering around 680 different acts, should also ensure their full implementation. It is therefore necessary to preserve existing expert personnel, particularly participants in EU environmental projects and to increase administrative capacity in the area at all levels of legislation that regulates the number of employees in public administration bodies and existing proposals, which is why I am saying this. Reductions in the number of employees are foreseen, which includes, without exception, environmental personnel, which is not in line with the EU's recommendations. I'm saying this because we're expected to make a lot of demands in law enforcement and we need to have trained personnel at all levels, have administrative capacity and professional capacity to do it. I'm just going to give an example, or a case of industrial contaminants. Namely, of the 224 industrial plants in Serbia, which are subject to the issue of an integrated permit, since the adoption of the Integrated Prevention and Control Act of 2004, a total of 17 permits have been issued so far, six at the republican level, seven at the province and four at the local level. In view of the industry's commitment, these are existing facilities, which by 2020 results in integrated permits, which is hardly feasible with current dynamics and current administrative capacities. I therefore appeal, I hope that this will be heard by the finance minister and Minister Kori Udovicki, to be taken into account in the reduction, i.e. the reduction of the number of employees in the administration, just so as not to touch the personnel in this area, i.e. the area of environmental protection. In an explanation for the proposed amendments to all three laws, for a reason, it is precisely citing compliance with EU rules, although the target date, as far as I know, was 31 December 2012. The setting-up of the Green Fund is now called the Green Fund, but as well as the budget fund of which is a basic function, I quote from the law, the recording of funds intended for financing, preparation, implementation, development of the area of environmental protection, etc. The Fund is located in the ministry and the minister prescribes conditions for the allocation of funds, which does not provide the fund's independence and is unclear how the public will be provided with work and control of money spending, etc. On the board, unfortunately, we have heard of this question – how will the fund function, a statement, I quote, one representative of the Ministry that this call fund is a future fund that will one day become an independent institution and where it will indeed be a green dinar that will be spent exclusively for purposes in the field of environmental protection, and even a statement, if I am not mistaken, that the president of the Committee, because of the reforms in which we are now living, must fit into this situation and must show saving, we cannot raise money for the purposes of the environment, but that money must be spent for other needs. I find that inadmissible personally. In fact, because the state of the environment is alarming, the national strategy of the Republic of Serbia by approaching the EU in the area of environmental protection, which was done around 2011, shows that Serbia needs ten and a half billion in the area of environmental protection for Serbia. You mentioned 11 and a half today, but there are huge numbers however it turns. Where the worst and worst situation in the water area, the most expensive, is estimated at over five billion or 5.6 billion euros, 3.3 billion of which are only needed to settle the waste water issue. There's more than two billion waste management in second place. It's a huge asset. Unfortunately, Serbia still does not have a water management strategy. In 2009, a water supply and water protection strategy for Vojvodina was adopted, but if there is not enough funding, since it is known that only 7% of the province's total budget, then there is also slow and insufficient implementation of the strategy. According to data I have for Vojvodina, somewhere around 10% of the population or less than 10% is connected to the city's wastewater treatment facilities, but is similar in other parts of Serbia. large quantities of wastewater are released without treatment in rivers, canals, septic pits, which are then uncontrollably empty, practically everywhere around us in the environment. Surface and underground waters are polluted, and the most drastic examples are just the two largest cities in Serbia, that is, Belgrade and Novi Sad, which do not have waste water treatment systems and their waste water municipal, even most and industrial, at least those industries that work, are released into the environment, so it is said, either in the Danube or elsewhere without purification. These are facts and it is something that we must worry about, regardless of the ideal laws that we will adopt and adapt to EU directives. The question arises – in what time can we meet EU standards if it is known that almost symbolic means are being allocated to protecting the environment, do not exceed 0.4% of GDP? By comparison, Denmark singles out 4% of its GDP. Therefore, with such a level of investment, it is difficult for us to reach, or that we can only rely on our own strengths. The state of the environment in our country is, I repeat, worrying, but this area is unfortunately not the government's priority. When at a session like this, I have also said this in public hearing and I will repeat it here, when a finance minister sits in this session, it will be a sign that environmental protection has become significant, not because of the EU and it is not so important that we force the strict application of EU law that has far preceded its regulations and in its application, but primarily because of our health and health of those generations that come after us. It is clear that these projected funds, i.e. the funds that we were talking about, that we need to settle this area, cannot be secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so it also counts on EU funds, loans and other sources. Again the question arises – are we able, will we be ready to take available funds? According to some information, already now some available funds are not used to a sufficient extent, i.e. local self-governments do not have enough capacity to qualify for good projects on the basis of which they will receive funds, i.e. to which they can apply for funds. We should not forget that under the Law on municipal activities, responsibility for waste management, water supply for drinking and wastewater disposal, i.e. wastewater management is within the jurisdiction of local self-government, which, as founders of these businesses, often brings similar people to the leading places, rather than to professional people. Well, it's not surprising, let's say, that in the New Sad water line, instead of protecting the spring and preventing the pollution of drinking water, they bring in a priest to avenge the water or example of the city's cleanliness in Novi Sad, who hasn't done anything yet to arrange the regional dump, not even the documentation. The process is to prepare documentation so that it can compete, i.e. that the city can compete for both EU funds or loans and so on. If I'm not mistaken, you from the ministry just sent a request somewhere last year, or the City Administration in Novi Sad, to prepare the paperwork to be ready to take the funds. Which means they didn't initiate themselves, but the ministry had to remind them. Unfortunately, we're fighting wild dumps, the city dump of Novi Sad is by the highway, which grows, nothing is done to reduce it. Unfortunately, it's not the only one, from Novi Sad to Belgrade there are more dumps, with Nova Paz, which I hear has a temporary license, but it grows and grows, and in Novi Banovci, they already call it Nadine's dump, because I've been monitoring its growth since 2014, when I started coming to these sessions. I asked the ministry twice, just insisting that something be done with the dump, because it is currently literally within ten inches of asphalt. Every day it grows more and more, and then you gave me an answer to address the local community of Novi Banovci, as competent. To make the irony bigger, this year in Serbia, or Novi Sad, the World Convention on Waste is being held, and I wonder if by then we will be able to solve at least these dumps that are visible along the highway and which are unfortunately a bad picture of us? As the world of waste makes new raw materials and employs thousands of workers, you've talked about it, about the circulatory economy, about green jobs, we have news when a wild dump is removed. They do this most often now in pre-election activities, so the president of the municipality comes out and says they cleaned up here and that dump, and in fact it's paid out of the municipality's budget, or out of the citizens' pockets. The effect of such waste management is like throwing money out the window. As far as I know, a few years ago, the data that I had about 40 million dinars, say, Nova Sad is spending on such cases, that is, carrying out wild dumps. The proposed amendments to the Waste Management Act are in line with the directives and it is important to apply it in practice. Whether or not they can be applied in practice, I can see that they rely heavily on local self-government and I'm afraid that according to the reduced resources that local self-government will have that will be a big problem. I must stress that waste management, water management in general requires knowledge, above all respect for knowledge, respect for knowledge, young experts who finish colleges, which unfortunately does not work in the profession most often. It is they who should be the ones who will be the basis and allow us to reach EU standards. It takes respect for the law and we face it daily, laws are either under-respected or unrespectable, or out-of-respectable, and money is needed on the ground. Something in any case is wrong if we have law and strategy, in a specific case of waste, we have a 2003 strategy, completed in 2009 and 2010, what happens on the ground, if we still have on all sides of the waste. What I would like to point out when it comes to Vojvodina, given that I am an LSV MP, what is our fundamental observation is that it is necessary to supplement a member relating to taxes and benefits in the field of environmental protection, i.e. that the province also collects some of the revenues from taxis and fees in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We have given the amendment, the question is whether it will be adopted, proposed to be 30% of the collected taxis, fees on Vojvodina territory and that money goes to the province's budget fund from which to co-finance activities related to the environment, waste management, environmental monitoring, protected natural goods, sustainable use of natural resources to raise protected green belts, something that is a burning problem when Vojvodina is concerned. This is important, especially in Article 5. The Law on the protection of the environment of the province is required to take care of environmental protection, in the area of the AP Vojvodina. As things stand now, the province has a formal right, or a formal fund, but has no funding source. It's like having a bank account, but you don't have a deposit on that account. I hope that the new government, or the new prime minister after these elections, will have more understanding for environmental problems and will finally form a special ministry for environmental protection, which will have priority in budgeting, unfortunately, we do not have it now. Environmental protection in Europe employs, say over three million people in green jobs, and that is why I propose to all MPs and all of us to think about it. Finally, I want to thank my colleagues from the Green Parliament Group, to mention that she was very functional too. Unfortunately, there were only 30 of us. Of which half was active, which also speaks of how much among MPs are understood and respected for environmental protection, I mean, very weak. I hope so, and I want the Green Group to be much more active in the new meeting, because there are countries where they are even "green" in power, and here we are fighting, I for at least 15 years, that this area of environmental protection is respected and that it is understood that it is not a cost, but that it can be extremely important, useful, above all, to protect itself. Today we've heard that you're talking more about the effects that companies have when it comes to recycling, and I'm constantly looking at the other side, that the first goal is to protect the environment of water, air, land, and so is human health, and then there goes profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49859	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49860	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, first of all, to respond again to this last thing you pointed out, to address the economy, to the recycling industry, and to protect the environment, first of all, and then to keep in mind the economy. Maybe the order of emphasis on the importance of law-making turned, maybe it was the first one to point out one thing, and then the other one. But I think it's one whole. Cell is if we want to reduce the amount of waste, to protect the environment, to create a better quality environment for our citizens, to have less of that waste that isn't taken care of, which isn't safely removed. So it's just things that make up the green economy and the circulatory economy. So in some countries, the percentage of recycled re-used waste is over 80%. I've got some data that says that in Germany, only 1% of the waste goes to waste. So, just 1% of what's generated is delayed to dumps. Everything else is used and reused. In Serbia, the amount of recycled waste generated is only 7% to 8%. By introducing end-of-waste status, by-product status, we reduce the amount of waste. This means we use what can be reused for excellent purposes, in building roads. We use less natural resources -- sand and gravel, reduce pollution, and simply achieve this one circulatory effect. In doing so, it means special benefit, a special aspect of all this is new business activity, new activity, activation of jobless, new jobs. Now let me get back to that big part of your speech. Most of your speech refers to the fact that the situation in the environment is bad, I don't know if you've just used the term - disastrously, that this government has done nothing to fix it. So you asked me to briefly explain to you what this government has done and what this Ministry has done when it comes to environmental issues. First of all, let's remind ourselves, this government was formed two years ago, 22 months more precisely. In these 22 months, we have passed ten laws, but the real environmental laws we want to establish and we want to implement legal legislation in this area. Not to mention all of this, but I'm going to mention some of these, there's also the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law and Biocidal Products and the Law on Integrated pollution and the prevention of environmental pollution. There are also these three laws – the National Parks Act, the Land Protection Act. So, ten and of course and the woods are an important natural resource that fits into this whole story of our concern for the preservation of the environment. You know we had that law on the agenda in the fall session. So we tried to make legal assumptions in this short period of time, a legislative regulation for the implementation of regulations, or for the establishment of order in this area. As for concrete, large infrastructure projects, you're right, it's expensive projects, it's expensive investments. It wasn't possible in these few, or in these twenty months or two years, to do a lot of things, but we did something. You know that this is the condition that you now characterise as bad, as disastrously inherited. In that regard, I don't agree with you that it's catastrophic. The situation is what it is, such a situation has been in other countries in this pre-accession period, but it is important to point out that we have a plan and what we are expected to do in Europe is exactly that plan. You know, you're with us on the board and we often talk within the Assembly when we defend the laws on those deadlines. So, we have forwarded our plan to our colleagues in Brussels, our proposal is until when we implement certain directives when it comes to waste management, when it comes to wastewater treatment, etc., etc. We will negotiate these deadlines, as other countries have negotiated. Now let me just say for a moment, in addition to this legislative activity, what we have done practically, since that's what you probably would have made it easier for our citizens to recognize. So, we've finished the main sewerage collector Kula-Verbas, the Great Back Channel. You know that this project is a controversial project, that it's costing it a few years. Thanks to the government's understanding and ministry, we were able to unplug that project, so to speak. But it doesn't just matter that we've solved this issue and that we're dealing with this issue for the citizens of Vrbs. It is also important that we, with this kind of relationship, restore the trust of the EU, or the funds that finance these projects, so that we now have cooperation with them again, prepare projects, put them on the list of priority projects and expect the same projects as those relating to the construction of a wastewater treatment plant. A few days ago in the King's office, we handed over complete technical documentation, fully prepared projects to build a wastewater treatment plant for the expansion of the sewage network. Together we did so with representatives of the EU delegation here in Belgrade, with the Office for European Integration. We have prepared complete technical documentation in accordance with the requirements of these funds. We put them on the priority list. The project's value in terms of preparing the technical documentation is around 1.2m euros, and the entire facility, or the whole project, will be built for something around 17m euros and these are promises to be financed from EU funds. It was built and started with the work of a regional dump in Panchev. It was built as part of a regional dump in Uzic, a transfer of cells to Cačka was built, then construction of a large regional dump in Subotica worth about 22m euros was started. A wastewater treatment facility has been completed in Leskovec and a series of other projects, which I can say we are done with. Of course, it's not simple and it's not easy, because a lot of these projects have a huge role to play in local self-government. Often with them, we have a problem that this part of the obligations they have taken into account, but here are the data, I have only listed some of these data, which shows that in this previous period, we have had a huge practical activity besides legislative activity, especially when it comes to these major investment projects. Not to say that we have managed to provide funds and in collaboration with the GIZ to implement a project in several local self-governments in Serbia, where we are trying to find an optimal model for solving, i.e. providing municipal services and thus to support large investments, and this is a project worth three million euros. In 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection began removing dangerous industrial, historical waste, and this government began. So none of the previous governments did. We found that problem and we went into solving these issues. Last year, we were two thousand tons of dangerous waste with 12 locations, including "First Spark" Baric and "Ekogas" and "Enge" Sabac, etc., we moved two thousand tons of hazardous waste and took care of it in a safe way. The value of this project is about 250 million dinars. We've signed a contract and these days we're supposed to start working on resuscitating the dump, the gaps from Zajec's smelt and these are huge investments, large funds are set aside to solve this problem, and I'm going to remind you that no one has ever wanted to engage in this solution to this major environmental problem and has never been able to solve it. And we've started it, and I think we're going to be able to show the citizens very soon that the problem of dispersal from this dump is definitely solved. Also, what I'm saying is that we managed to encourage a significant one in the past year, and in the previous year, a recycling industry. In 2014, we paid off the debt from previous years, last year we paid about two billion dinars, so that we ensure that our waste is recycled, that it is our raw materials, that our people are employed, and that we want to further ensure by new law loyal competition among recycling companies to encourage them to invest in new plants, that we have products, that we do not export secondary raw materials and semi-products. Let's not talk about this co-operation that we have with the NGO, which is very important to us, because together with them we do projects that are smaller projects, which have that important educational character, 43 such projects were done last year. I simply think that they had a significant echo among our citizens in this educational, promotional sense, and even some of these projects had practical importance in terms of the work of editing certain areas, green areas, etc. All of these results, not to count them further, are achieved in these 22 months, but I also want to say that when we all talk about the results, we forget what we handed over to the government and the ministry and what she could really do in that available time and we all forget that this government had such a crash, so to speak, because we just formed had catastrophic May floods. In the jurisdiction of this ministry are issues relating to water, and water is a environment, and you know how much we've hired above all to stop the flood wave, to defend what could have been defended at that moment and how much time and resources were spent in restoring water facilities, repairing what was damaged and how much was done and improving the situation. Now, for the sake of the public and for the sake of truth, let me just remind you that in that flood wave, we have carried out an extraordinary flood defense of 1,120 kilometers long, i.e. water objects that protect us from external waters and about 1,070 kilometers of canals that protect us from internal waters. Right after the flood wave was withdrawn, you know, the government brought in a regulation that meant urgent work on the recovery of damaged objects. For this purpose, nearly a billion and 500 million dinars have been allocated. Everything in this flood wave has been damaged and not only repaired, projects have been prepared, their funding for improving the flood defense system has been provided. As far as it seems to someone now and it seemed to someone not so important, I just want to say that I think everyone responsible enough will recognize all of this, and I don't want to say it, but I also have to, I don't just want to get someone to blame, we've all lived in this country, we've all been involved in the creation and politics and certain affairs, but it's simply the fact that investments in flood protection systems have been much, much less necessary, that we've found that system to this extent vulnerable because of small investments, small concerns in the past decades, but especially in the first decade of the 21st century, or since 2000, and so on, and it's likely that it's further help to be so that the consequences are looking for such additional investment and additional work and additional activities. Simply, that's what we all need to know, to remind ourselves when we're giving an easy assessment that the situation is catastrophic, that the government put the environment in the back place, that it doesn't care about the environment, all that absolute data is being denied, and I'm ready to always be in every place, both with you and with every other, I'm also talking about arguments, data and works that defend both the role of the government and the role of the Ministry when it comes to environmental issues, that is, to improve the quality of the environment of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49861	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Ivan Karic. Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49862	I thank the Honorable Chairman. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have a set of so-called The environmental laws and in the next ten minutes we'll discuss some of them, in part of the story of amendments, of course, we'll discuss the concrete amendments that we're talking about. In the principle debate of the SDS parliamentary group, the ZZS, the ZS, as the situation stands, will not support these proposed amendments to the law, but what we do or say characterizes Serbia in recent years can also be marked with geographical concepts, so it will be clear that I can talk about what is missing in the environment, I have been doing for four years, how much I am a member of this Parliament – Chairs and Zajaca, Swords and groundwaters in Machva, Zrenjanin and groundwater in Zrenjanin, Užice – drinking water, Batocina – drinking water, Bogatic – drinking water, Belgrade – ambience and aero pollution, Bor, Loznica, Vranje with its lakes and Plačica above it is not only the error of this government and this Ministry. Since 1999, we haven't done it the right way and we haven't properly solved the consequences that are still felt by NATO bombing and that's the thing that's left to be solved, and our memories are slowly faded. Unfortunately, environmental problems are increasing and health problems are building up, as a consequence of Serbia's bombing. Wild gravel diggers in Moravia are a problem we don't solve. What is a key issue is that environmental protection issues in the 21st century are not just environmental issues, they are primarily health, economic and economic today. Unfortunately, we are still far from having several ministers defend environmental laws together, given that they are increasingly, and in the 21st century almost dominantly refer to the green economy, to the opening of new jobs and to the circular economy, which is in part a slightly narrower term compared to the green economy. What we have been resenting for four years is a conceptual approach to protecting the environment. We think, and in 2012, that Serbia, no matter how many ministries, deserves a special ministry of environmental protection and natural resources, that Serbia deserves a special fund for environmental protection, that Serbia deserves a special agency for chemicals, that Serbia is not only on paper by the Environmental Protection Agency, which has become so much less of a maneuverial space that it has now become only one data-insertion box and nothing more than that, that we and we can no longer speak of the quality of the environment, you are right there, because we have not measured any parameters for four years or we measure them in a concise manner, only when someone reports an accent, and we send some mobile laboratory that comes in, of course, a day, two, five or ten after that accent. These are the problems we've been talking about for four years. I really don't see too much difference between the previous government and this one right now. I don't see, and what I'm saying has something to do with some previous governments, the Ministry of Environment has never had real treatment, the problems are just multiplying over the last 25 years. Some people may have done the most when it comes to ecosystems and environmental protection that were slow in some segments before 2000, laying the foundation for environmental protection. What is important is that the quality of air in Serbia is a serious problem and that this is not my mere statement, that the concentrations PM2.5 and PM10 are significantly higher than those allowed in the EU and those that are according to the World Health Organization's recommendations, that in 2010, about 10,000 people in Serbia died prematurely due to exposure to suspended particles and ozone. It is the second highest rate of premature deaths due to air pollution in Europe. In addition, there were 2.5 million days of absence from work. It's the best economic calculation of how environmental pollution is and what are the negative effects on the environment and the population, it's assumed that as a result of the pollution of ambience air primarily from coal thermal power plants. I come from Obrenovac and in Serbia it is one of the biggest problems. More than 1,000 people suffer from chronic bronchitis, 600 are hospitalized due to respiratory or cardiovascular symptoms, while 2,000 deaths are annually blamed for only air pollution. The costs resulting from the deterioration of health caused by only one source of pollution, in this case the use of fossil fuels, coal thermopower plants, are estimated to be up to 4.98 billion euros a year. It's the best indicator of how much health costs and how bad investment in the environment can be fatal. Not to mention the numbers of dead and severely ill or minor diseases per terawatt-hour of energy. But to continue what is of general importance, and these are progress reports when we talk about Chapter 27, someone will say in part. My impression is that they are almost entirely overcoming negative assessments, that it is particularly stressed that the need to take appropriate measures in the following areas – strengthening public participation in decision-making, especially at local level, when we are discussing the Nature Protection Act, there are improvements and I am not afraid to say so; resolving systemic weaknesses in the implementation of projects in the environment, so that management of all specific waste flows would be in line with EU requirements; strengthening institutional capacity in the field of environment, it seems that in the last four years this capacity has been in constant decline; strengthening capacities in the field of chemical acquis, issuing integrated permits; implementing regulations, as one of the main shortcomings of all administrations in Serbia, when it comes to environmental protection. The weakest point of the transition model seems to be the practical formal takeover of the system of European environmental models, but also the inability to implement these models on the ground. We have to deal with the problems we have in applying what we're going to transpose in the environment. The harmonisation of the law, in itself, is not the goal. We often don't have enough well-calculated implications and effects that cause the laws we make. I've only given you some figures that, for several years, maybe more than ten years, have been dealing with environmental protection, so they've been extremely frantic, both about the number of deaths and the financial consequences of environmental pollution. More intensive action is needed, these are the words of the European Commission, not mine, in the area of climate change, in civil protection that is not in yours, but I hope that the emergency situations in some future will be part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the quality of water, the quality of surface waters, the strengthening of the capacity to coordinate policies and regulations with EU policy and, of course, what is a major problem and, in all these three laws, it is an effective and lasting system of financing in the field of environmental and climate protection, which is not at this moment, nor these amendments and additions to the laws have been established. What's a big problem, which I think you're slowly getting rid of, is that the administration's aversion to the public's participation, according to the participation of citizens' associations, NGOs. This aversion of the administration is much more pronounced at the local level than at the national level, and this is not an issue relating only to the ministry, but to the ministry as one of the most responsible. Unfortunately, the bigger problem is the money that is being paid and the money from the budget must be far greater when investing in the environment and cannot possibly be less than what we pay on the basis of two principles, I mean these two large – contaminants and users who pay. You can't let money be smaller in the environment than they pay. The particular question that's being asked is what happens to the money that's being collected, and it doesn't go back to local self-government in some amount. I believe the amount should be 60%, it's been 40% lately, and now it's left to the will of the minister, the ministry, the finance minister or the budget. I believe that institutions and the Environmental Protection Agency need more money to monitor the quality of the environment, monitor all segments of the environment, and I believe that they could be part of the attention and part of the money to focus on them. There are a few questions: do we separate the waste at the place of origin and why don't we separate it? Do utility companies recycle waste? Are we cleaning up wastewater and why are we purifying it at such a small percentage? Could it be Colubara, Morava, South Morava, West Morava and many fewer rivers that can last in the years to come? Are we aware that Serbia is a country of inadequate and irregular septic caves? Are septic pits responsible for one part of first-level pollution, issued in Vojvodina, Pomoravlje, Mačva, Podnišavlje, Podrinj, Posavina, etc.? The environmental law, the main issue is funding from the budget, and what happens to money being paid on the basis of pollution and whether anything is returned to local self-government units? Could we add, or might it be a proposal from the Committee, to the National Assembly, i.e. that once a year the Committee of the National Assembly receives a report on the work of the Green Fund, given the previous experience that you are so happy to exploit, and so far, we have not proved any of this for the four years? We should introduce additional controls on the spending of funds from the Fund, and I think that at least once a year, the Committee on Environmental Protection has the opportunity to discuss it and see how budget funds are spent, or how budget beneficiaries' funds are spent. When we talk about the Nature Protection Bill, indeed, the Ministry has advanced the public debate process, the way in which the public is informed, the maintenance of roundtables, the reporting of the comments received and their consideration. Unfortunately, termology occasionally appears different and seems to be out of line with some other laws, and this law is important to us as one of the roof laws. What my impression of all these years, without falling into the EU without thinking, is that at all costs we want to reach 100% of the transposition of those directives and the EU directive, without seeing the real possibilities for these procedures and measures to be actually applied in the environment and in the Serbian economy. Although I speak on behalf of the Greens of Serbia, I do not want my country to lag behind in economic development, nor to slow down economic development, but I firmly believe that the answers – the green economy, the circulatory economy, and that the change in the paradigm of today's policy is a solution to the protection of the environment. The law does not offer a solution to the financing of nature protection. Unfortunately, the Green Fund will not and cannot have an adequate function. Maybe the law could recognize the NGO a little bit more. What I personally like, and we support, in front of the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, is that the ministry can set up shelters for the purpose of taking away or injured specimens of wild animals, that the law requires the issuing and withdrawal of authorisations for the work of zoos, precisely defined the jurisdiction of inspection, and the protection of the environment and the phyto-sanitary and veterinary, and police and customs services in the exercise of control and envisaged the creation of a large number of sublegal acts. And this time, it seems to me that you have set short deadlines, although it is my constant objection that when you pass laws, you offer us at least a draft of the appearance of sublegal acts. I think it is something that is also true in the European Union, and it is a practice in the EU as well. When we talk about protected areas, the trend that you advocate is the expansion of protected areas, which is certainly good. But, on the other hand, practice doesn't match what you do at the ministry. Transposition of the law is not enough for us to get closer to the EU. We must live as in the EU, in order to get closer to the EU. We have a worrying neglect of protected natural areas in Serbia. We need to create clearer co-operation and subsidies for farmers living in protected areas and who cannot deal with conventional agriculture or some other agricultural segments that could endanger nature in this protected natural good. The Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia has 12 amendments to this law and we expect you to seriously consider them. We are prepared to defend these amendments in the discussion of amendments, but we are also prepared to support this legislative proposal if we see in detail the will to accept some of our proposals and that we can discuss it properly, and in that case support the Nature Protection Act. What's the main concern of the Waste Act is that it's not precise enough, especially when it comes to definitions. We have a few grudges, and when it comes to the old term, the owner, and when we mention the holder, we also mention the trader and the mediator, so we have a little bit of the terminology, and it seems to me that we're putting them in an unequal position with some people who are dealing with recycling and the collection of waste, who are registered for that, who are paying taxes to the state, that we're putting them in a bit of a vague and unequal position with traders and intermediaries. It seems to me that there will be legal misunderstandings in the application of this law. What the Green Serbia thinks is that a complete redesign of this law is necessary. This is what we think of for all three laws, that new laws should have been offered, laws that will be fully in line with EU directives and from them immediately meet directives that change in the EU, which we do not have the answer to and, unfortunately, we are constantly coughing for these directives, because we are not able to meet them. As soon as the discussion of Chapter 27 begins, we are expected by a series of sublegal regulations and, therefore, it seems to us, was a better comprehensive amendment of the law. Dangerous waste is better arranged and better solved by this law, but what's the biggest grudge is dumps, it's a term of non-sanitary dump. Unfortunately, this part of the Waste Management Act is a return, I think, for 10, 15 years, not to say 20 years in environmental protection. It's the main issue of a non-sanitary dump that shouldn't be found in this law, to find solutions. We haven't done anything in all these years, and it's not just the merit or guilt of this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49863	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49864	Thank you. Your Honor, you have raised several questions, and I will briefly answer not some of the questions you have raised, which I have not answered in my previous report. You mentioned wild gravel diggers and the collapse of this natural resource of gravel and sand from water streams, river streams, I must say this question is not the subject of these laws that we defend today. Here in the area of the environment, this issue will be governed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act. The law is fully prepared and we are just waiting for a consensus, that is, waiting for the European Commission's permission to agree to forward it further into the assembly procedure. As for the Environmental Protection Agency, you say it's turned into some statistical bureau that collects data and processes it. I have to say that's not true, that the Agency is working on water monitoring, air monitoring. In addition, I would like to point out that the Agency has concluded air quality control contracts with the Bora Institute of War and metallurgy and 17 other public health institutions throughout Serbia in the cities of Belgrade, Cačak, Kruševac, Sabac, Zaječar, Piroth and so on. Also, you mention major air pollution, mention Obrenovac and certain cities in Serbia. I do not dispute that we have increased concentrations of carbon dioxide due to industry and energy plants, but you know that this is not only Serbia's problem, that this is a global problem and that because of this global problem and that a common global campaign is being led, the fight against climate change. You know that these problems are problems clearly defined by the UN International Framework Convention, which brings together 195 Member States, and you know that Serbia has taken an active part in this global fight, a global campaign to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I must remind you that with all our environmental results that I just pointed out, certainly one envious result is that Serbia among the first countries in the world, among the top 10 in the world, and the first in the region to deliver its intended national contributions to the global struggle to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So we have a common and global fight ahead of us in that part. You further mention, as well as previous MPs, the matter of deadlines, you mention the issue of waste management and I get the impression that you simply don't know enough that garbage dumps are dumps, that waste is local self-government. You also forget that when it comes to regional dumps that are foreseen by the Waste Management Strategy, that this strategy has been prepared by a government before us, that it has foreseen such a system of waste management and regional dumps and that we are today facing incredible problems on the ground. Amazing problems in terms of what simply our municipalities cannot agree to complete a project that has been launched, and we take this project as an unfinished, or controversial project. We can't justify the funds we've taken, which we've used, and we're here as the Ministry and as the Government reporting as mediators, as mediators to solve this problem. These are all the problems this government has inherited. I say again, at the level of local self-government, at the level of the province, and only then, at the level of the entire Republic, is the responsibility for the unsettled dumps and for the dumps that, either function or do not function well, or which should be later arranged. What we have done with this law, this law is simply that we clearly tell everyone responsible, everyone in charge that we will no longer tolerate an irresponsible attitude towards the environment, towards the citizens, and that is why we have set deadlines for local self-government. So, in a year's time, what they have to do, what they have to do in the next two years. Of course, we as the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will help that what has not been done in the previous years to be done in years ahead of us. I say again, we are now transposing regulations, regulations, therefore, EU standards. We have taken the obligation to transpose all these directives by 2018. The privatisation will depend on the negotiating process and we are counting on additional transitional periods that all the countries that have joined the EU have received. I want to say that this transposition of the directive and the introduction of standards are not just because we want to become a member of the EU, we are doing it to simply improve the quality of life, or the living environment of our citizens. You say – why aren't they new laws? Simple answer. Environmental standards at EU level are as moving targets, they are simply, very quickly, very often changing, improving, and we have now chosen a model to offer changes and additions at this time, which will mean the transposition of a significant part of the obligations and directives that will, above all, be important for protecting Serbia's environment, for supporting and helping economic activities, for new employment until 2018, when the time is planned when we will assume all obligations. Until then, we will change and supplement again with those directives that can and change at EU level and there is no problem and there is no dilemma. So, as far as nature protection is concerned, nature protection will be financed from the Green Fund that we are establishing now with these laws, but it has been financed over the past two years, for the previous two years from the Republic of Serbia's budget. 410 million dinars have been allocated for protected areas and nature protection. What I still want to show you, since I've prepared the charts, you're saying why the waste isn't being collected, why don't we have that result? Here's a graph that shows how the share is increased per year, i.e. the objectives of waste collection are increasing. Two thousand ten targets were 5% in 2014, 30%. It's these yellow pillars. The green pillars show what's being realized. From these pillars, from this graphic image you can clearly see that things are changing. Things change in a positive way, we're simply taking over the experiences of the countries that went this way that we're going to. We are taking over the experiences of other countries and we are working gradually to achieve the goals because it is the only possible way in this period. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49865	Thank you. (Ivan Karic, from town: Replica. ) On what basis, Mr. Karic? (Ivan Karic, from the post: The minister misread me. I haven't noticed that in any way... . (Ivan Karic, from the post: She spoke to me in such a way as not to speak to students and not to MPs. Come on, quote, please. (John Karic, from the place: How? Please quote how she addressed you. (Ivan Karic, from the scene: she said I had no idea, but that what I said was bullshit. You have no right, Mr. Karic, I'm sorry. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Suleyman Ugljanin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49866	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, the minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia and associates welcome to today's session. I will speak today from the aspect of our EU accession and the situation on the ground. I want first of all to say that I was pleased to receive information on the selection of this set of laws regarding environmental protection, nature protection, waste management, etc. This set of laws I think was passed at the right time, especially because of the fact that we have, 15 days ago we adopted the Framework European Convention on Cross-border Co-operation. So she's a good basis for applying this law. All these topics that deal with these five laws that we are talking about today cannot be limited by a single country's political borders, so all this problem is a good basis for cross-border co-operation with our neighbouring and municipalities and states. On behalf of the SDA Sandzak and on behalf of the minority parliamentary club, I would like to express my support for this set of laws, normally, some small objections that I will make in the principle debate. When we talk about this, we need to know what our position is today. As a country that strives towards the EU, we have the opportunity and opportunity to use European funds to build, i.e. to address the problem of environmental protection, municipal industrial waste, etc. and all these things that are processed by these laws. I will address you, Minister, as Minister of Government and colleagues who are with you, asking that, first, let me tell you, we will support you in the day of voting all these laws, normally with objections, some that I will say, but asking you to help people on the ground in municipalities. What's this about? We all have a duty to permanently solve municipal waste, and domestic waste that goes out of our families every day, and industrial waste. However, as you yourselves know, our country, our budget is small, and the municipalities have very little resources to solve such big things. Therefore, as a man referred to the state of our undeveloped municipalities on the ground, I ask you to find a way to convince the EU, to send an EU letter, to allow our municipalities credits, i.e. funds to finance the development of project documentation for, so that our municipalities can compete with the EU, to draw up project documentation from their pre-accession funds in the first order of addressing waste and municipal waste and wastewater problems. Why? None of our municipalities, and neither is the Serbian government able to finance everyone's production of project documentation. Without project documentation, we cannot compete with the EU to finance the project. You know, they're millions of figures. If, in the pre-accession period, we and our municipalities make up project documentation, we get money from the EU to finance project documentation, we will get a good basis for the next year, when a competition is launched for the financing of waste management projects, recycling or waste water, so that we can compete with the EU and obtain funds with the project documentation. Why am I saying this? Because I know that no city, not even the city of Belgrade today, and let alone our poor municipalities in Serbia, have so much money, they can neither get the support of these councilors nor the councilors, to set out millions of figures for the production of project documentation, as it is said, that we finance and that others collect points. We need to convince the EU to call a tender for funding the development of project documentation for waste management and waste water management. If we do this as Government, we will release ourselves from a great burden and help our municipalities not to come tomorrow, to go bankrupt. Why? Because all municipalities applying to the EU competition will also receive funding for project documentation for waste and waste water management projects. However, if we do not use it today during the pre-accession period, all our municipalities will pay expensive penels, expensive foams for every family waste, industrial waste or wastewater that goes into our rivers. Speaking of objections to these laws, I must introduce you to the position of the SDA Sandzak. We in SDA Sandzak, which is a 25-year parliamentary party in this country, have been saying from the very beginning that they are so-called The sanitary dumps of just one megalomaniac, a huge bowl of garbage, a pile of garbage that every day produces very toxic steam, toxic evaporation, corrosive steam that affects the environment, like acid rain, and damage to the health of our people. However, the construction of these sanitary so-called sanitary products. A dump that's nothing but a clay bowl covered with nylons inside, they're actually just a pile of junk and a fix to this problem. Our party's position and our experts is to use garbage today as energy for remote heating. We have sent our experts to America and we have established that in some countries there is a technology that chemically decomposing of garbage can be fuelled up to their ring by 30% of the fuel, and that the next 70% can be used for district heating in winter, and in summer and throughout the year for producing industrial steam or technical hot water. I was personally in Kočevje, Slovenia, and I saw that in that city, a chemical industry, which produced a technical pair on the maput, had moved to wood industry waste, as they say. It's shellfish, tiny scraps of wood from the woods, from factories, sawdust and everything else. They've reduced the toxic gases by 50%, and by 100%, it's cheaper to produce money on these wood wastes than on the mule. On the other hand, we in our party SDA Sandzak consider, from the very establishment, we family waste, industrial waste we view as energy. We don't need to pass special laws about allowing garbage to be burned. We don't think of it as burning, we think of it as the energy for the district heating of winter, and it flies for the production of electricity. We saw it in Kočevje, where they use wood waste today to produce industrial steam and electricity when you don't need money, you can use garbage in the same way. Why? Because as long as there are people, there will be garbage. That way, we'll solve the daily flow of this garbage, on the one hand. On the other hand, we'll solve a hundred-year dump. We don't do anything. We stick our head in the sand if we don't want to have fun getting rid of 100-year-old dumps. In this way, we will supply daily hundreds of thousands of tons of garbage and our own not to say burners, but heat that will produce both heat and electricity and technical steam, on the one hand. On the other hand, planically, if we do it today in 25 years we can root out all the 100-year dumps from our country and make it our fuel. We create conditions that instead of today, only one city of size, for example, Tutina spends more than 700,000 euros, or Sjenica, to take out garbage from the city, transport to the dump, stockpiling in the dump, that it will earn so much annually only on the production of heat or electricity. It's pure math. That's why I ask you, as Government, as Minister and all members, to deal with this issue as representatives of the government as experts. This is a topic that solves a lot of questions in our country. If we define in future our laws and in these laws the garbage, as energy, and not waste, we create conditions that every pixel, cigarette powder that is thrown on the street and every toothpick that is thrown away is not treated as garbage, but as energy. We also change the minds of our people, change the economic situation of our country. We, like this country, with such a weak budget, will not have the opportunity to finance these megalomaniac spells, as I call these sanitary dumps, because they cost a lot, but they don't solve anything. On the contrary, which is due to atmospheric rainfall, there is an interpretation of those substances that have a short half-time decomposition and also create acid rain and corrosive steam and toxic steam, and we spend a lot of money on the transport of garbage. There aren't any of our 46 developed municipalities, none of our municipalities, there's enough money to transport garbage, for example, from Priboj, Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, I don't know who, to Novi Pazar, nor can people give themselves a chance that those from Shop, Black Grass are transporting their dump or garbage to some big sanitary dump at Vranja or another town. That's expensive. If we define it as energy, then the transport of garbage from our households, from our factories, to that combustion plant, to that power-generating plant, where the waste of energy will be covered by the costs and transportation of the garbage and the labor force doing so. In our private and public sector project, which we have proposed as the Office for Sustainable Development, which has not yet been put out of force, but is not implemented, there is a clearly defined programme and objective. This was done by top experts from Belgrade's Faculty of Organizational Sciences. If we hire our experts from Smederev, then we don't have to ask... True, Velenje's "Gorenje" is a top reference institution known in the world for production and small and large furnaces. The furnace we are talking about in Kočevlje is the product "Grenja" from Velenja. It doesn't cost 10m euros, and one sanitary dump that represents one large bowl of garbage disposal costs so much, if not more. In this way, I invite you to apply these laws that are truly, in addition to these remarks that I have made, extraordinary, but with a proposal not to treat garbage, no family waste, no industrial waste as a dump, but to rename it energy. On the other hand, as far as some major dumps are concerned, there is justification when it comes to the issue of atomic nuclear waste. When it comes to nuclear waste, we can agree that there are, in accordance with the law, funds to deposit, but we hope that another Nikola Tesla or others will be born who will find a solution for that atomic waste to one day be energetic or something else. Fixing garbage dumps for me is really expensive, for America or Japan, let alone for the Republic of Serbia. Let me define it one more time for the end. In the day of voting, we will vote on all these drafts of the law, and we will be active participants in it. On the other hand, when we take a positive example, let us take cross-border co-operation, i.e. the European Framework Convention of Cross-border Co-operation, take only one Lim, a Lim source in Gusinj, passes through southern Sandzak, passes through part of BiH, only if we make, or apply, that Lim Initiative for Waste and Waste Water Management, we will have good Serbia's co-operation with Montenegro and Serbia with BiH and all those countries further to the Black Sea, where the waste water goes. It's the same thing with the Ibar initiative. Ibar's coming out in the rojays, and we're drinking that water. From Rojai, they all bow down to the King. Do we have the right to allow someone north to pour out sewers, dumps in Ibar, and we drink that water? No, I don't. That is why, based on cross-border co-operation, we can apply to joint projects, cross-border projects in the EU, and get funds for both the Lim initiative and the Ibar initiative. Why am I here for the initiative? SDA Sandzaka is a regional party, and this is our most famous substance. Second, there are seven poorest municipalities in northern Montenegro and six poorest municipalities in southwestern Serbia. That's the problem we're going to deal with permanently. The Sandzak will then be a reason for better co-operation between Serbia-Montenegro, as a country with similar common history, culture and language, religion and other common elements and peoples living in these countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49867	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49868	I want to thank you for supporting these laws and recognising the importance of those to address environmental issues. Your proposal for the use of waste for energy purposes and for less disposal on dumps is fully in line with our thoughts and we ourselves encourage this type of waste use. This law regulates the question of waste hierarchy? What does that mean? So the question is that it's being treated in terms of the part that can't really be used for any other purpose. So, so far, the waste that we introduce in this hierarchy is classified, raw materials that can be reused, or that can be recycled. Our recommendation is that the rest of the waste that cannot be recycled is used for these heat purposes and legal possibility exists. What is a problem and what has not been sufficiently revived in Serbia is the fact that such energy plants, i.e. these plants, need significant resources and we seek and encourage potential investors and this example of public private partnership, is a very good example and we expect that we will certainly have many more interested ones in the coming years to take advantage of this potential – waste for energy production. Let me just say it for a second. When it comes to cross-border cooperation projects, we are already working on preparing these projects and we invite you, if you have any special projects, special ideas, to contact your MPs or you personally and to help you, to give you specific suggestions. If this is about Ibra and Lim, we have already prepared projects and run for funding from these cross-border co-operation programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49869	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49870	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, today I will talk about three draft laws from this debate, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Nature and the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Waste Management. In the area of protection and promotion of the environment, it is extremely important to finance, administrative and institutional capacities, education and availability of information. The Republic of Serbia confirmed the Convention on the availability of information on public participation in decision-making and legal protection in environmental matters, i.e. the Archusa Convention, which was adopted on 12 May 2009. The Archduke Convention in Article 5(2) provides for the establishment of a register with information on the environment. The Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act provides for Article 15 to establish and maintain a national target register for environmental information as an electronic database and portal to existing databases and documents with environmental information, different bodies and organisations and that authorities and organisations are obliged to update data at regular intervals to the national target register. By forming and regularly updating the national target register, the public will be able to easily, quickly and easily access information on the environment, and will also enable and improve the general availability of information from this area. For information not available in electronic or other form, the national meta-registry shall provide information to the authority or organisation responsible for the search for information and to whom access to the requested documentation or information should be made. In this way, an efficient information system will be established in accordance with the strategy for the implementation of the Archus Convention. The amendment of the law defines the delivery of information on the environment at the request, in order to make information accessible as efficiently as possible. Article 19 provides for the dissemination of information on the environment, which implies that public authorities are obliged to ensure that information on the environment they possess or store on their behalf is actively and systematically spread to the public, in particular through the means of computer, telecommunications or electronic technology. As it is very important that information is published and that public authorities are obliged to regularly update, regularly publish information on the environment, I believe that it is necessary for each public authority responsible for protecting the environment to enable the establishment and maintenance of a specific site on which there will be technical opportunities and sufficient space for the publication of all data, information, documents, studies, plans, reports, regulations, contracts and whatever is relevant to the public and other bodies and organisations in the field of environmental protection. Currently, part of this information in the town of Nis can be seen on the Niš site, but it is necessary to form a website of the Administration for Economic and Sustainable Development, environmental protection with technical opportunities and enough space to publish this data, since the administration is competent, among other things, to protect the environment. Sixty per cent of all environmental regulations are implemented locally and the biggest requirements in the European integration process are right in this area. In order for local self-governments to meet the requirements set, it is also necessary to provide financial, administrative capacity and financial conditions for all local self-governments. Article 21 defines funding for environmental protection, and Article 22 defines the most significant incentive, i.e. the financial measure that will be implemented through amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which is the establishment of a green fund of the Republic of Serbia, which will also implement environmental policy in the Republic of Serbia in the area of financing environmental protection. The proposed solution is very positive, as it allows further functioning of the financing of the environmental protection system that was necessary after the closure of the environmental fund in 2012. The town of Nis, as well as other local self-governments, started with the help of the Environmental Protection Fund in 2010 to implement a project of rehabilitation, decultivation and closure of the Bubanj dump, which belongs to non-sanitary dumps. A part of the project was implemented by 2012, but after the closure of the Fund in 2012, which was no longer able to finance the project in question, the work on the recovery has been terminated and a further resolution of this key problem that requires large funds. We expect that by forming a green fund of the Republic of Serbia, it will find an opportunity to continue these projects that started in several local self-governments and address one of the priority problems facing the city of Nis. Resuscitation, decultivation and closure of the existing non-sanitary dumps on Bubunj will prevent further pollution and further degradation of the environment, while living in the environment will improve living conditions. The formation of a green fund will allow the implementation of priority projects in the area of environmental protection in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in order to address the biggest problems more effectively and achieve goals in the area of environmental protection. A sustainable system of financing in the environment protection system and achieving the objectives on the ground will enable the resolution of problems in the area of regulation, capacity and control by strengthening institutional capacity, financial moments and administrative capacity. The area of protection and promotion of the environment is huge. It requires huge resources to address long-term priority problems in water management, waste management in climate change and industrial pollution. By establishing a green fund as one of the key mechanisms for financing the country's environmental protection, they should contribute to improving the protection of life in general, in the Republic of Serbia. Local self-governments have their own budget funds to protect the environment that are dedicated, and in Nis, the fund is particularly full of eco-tax, but these funds are insufficient for capital projects. Article 33 provides that an autonomous province or unit of local self-government is required to adopt a programme for environmental protection, action or recovery plans under Article 68 of the Law, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. The adoption of an environmental protection programme with an action plan of action or recovery plans is of paramount importance for the management of environmental protection, and to make environmental protection more effective is to strengthen capacity and improve monitoring. I would like to speak briefly on the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. The bill amending the Waste Management Act is one of the most important new legal solutions, as the inadequate disposal of waste is one of the biggest environmental problems in Serbia. This law will allow for the establishment of an integrated waste management system, the monitoring of waste from its collection, transport, storage, treatment until final disposal, in particular by giving an accent of consumer use and recycling of waste, the issue of secondary raw materials, the use of energy and the proper disposal. The provisions of the Bill of Law also stipulate the obligations of the Autonomous Province or of the Unit of Local Self-Government to coordinate their waste management plans as well as the deadlines in which units of local self-government must regulate and organise the selection and separate collection of waste for recycling, to organise and equipment of household waste collection centres, to produce a list of regulated dumps, to make records and projects of recovery and recycling, to establish, in agreement with one or more units of local self-government, a location for the construction and operation of a storage facility, treatment or disposal of waste in their territory, and all in order to protect the environment. I'm also going to do a little short on the draft law on changes and additions to the Nature Protection Act. Amendments to the Nature Protection Act specify the definitions of the ecological network, geoparks and geonasal objects. Parts on management plans for protected areas and on the rights and duties of guards receiving official status have also been amended. In the section relating to the Convention, the members of the Convention have been amended in addition to the other members on the conditions for keeping live specimens of wild animals in captivity and trafficking strictly protected and protected wild animals. I call on all MPs to make a full contribution to the implementation and implementation of these laws, but at the same time I urge all citizens of Serbia to take part in the protection of the environment and nature together, and that is the only way we can leave nature for future generations to continue to use. After this debate and debate on the details and improvement of the quality of these laws, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law, as well as the other laws of this debate, through the adoption of certain laws and amendments in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49871	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49872	Thank you. Three amendments and additions to the law before us have one common thread, regardless of the first amendment of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, in the second management of waste and in the third Nature Protection Act. This common thread is a lack of horizontal legislation. It's going to be a huge problem in law enforcement, and whoever the minister is and whoever tells you everything's great, that it can't be any more awesome, doesn't think you well. Whom you hear wants to solve the problem of horizontal legislation wants to be your associate and really wants to change the state of environmental protection and the management of natural resources in Serbia. What is horizontal legislation? It's a process without which it can't be applied to protecting the environment, improving conservation, it can't be anything anyone who talks about protection likes to talk about. Horizontal legislation is a deal between ministries. Horizontal legislation is an agreement and co-operation between the province and the central level of government. Horizontal legislation is an agreement between local self-government and the agreement of local self-government and national or regional level. In order for that to happen, there must be dialogue and people have to want to agree. Why didn't that happen with these three laws? The illustrative, evidenceable and clear example is the fund, the budget fund for environmental protection, i.e. the Green Fund. The law on protection is changing, so that money can be introduced, to see what the polluter pays for, what he spends it all on. It's the idea of a budget fund, the idea of a principle -- a pay contaminant. Many entrepreneurs of medium, small and large companies pay this compensation under the law and have the right to know how and what programs this same dinar they pay for polluting, to be returned to rehabilitation or to improve the environment. That's why we have a budget fund to protect the environment. In the definition of how this money will be recorded and what competitions and programmes can be explored, waste management and waste management can be considered. There's no Green Fund in the Waste Management Act. Why isn't there? Because someone at the ministry said they couldn't. Then we have an additional problem, and that is that we have changed the Nature Protection Act and in the Nature Protection Act that is before us we have the Budgetary Green Fund instead of the Protection Fund. Then I guess somebody else worked at the finance ministry and said, "Now you can." You have laws that, all three, have to finance part of the budget fund. Defined in the Law on the Protection of the Environment, introduced in the Nature Protection Act and we heard, more than 400 million dinars have already been spent from the Ministry on nature protection affairs, but the Waste Management Act writes – from the budget. It doesn't say he's from the Green Fund. If we do not understand how much a problem this is, everyone will, of course, have the right to interpret their own successes or their own desire to create successes in the field of the environment, as everyone will have the right to minimise them, but real progress will not be until there is a finance minister in the Assembly who should ask the Minister in charge of environmental protection what he needs. Until that happens we have a common problem and all the recitations about what we did great and what someone didn't do are completely unproductive. You have proof to all of us that the Budgetary System Act is a reason that it cannot, that competitions, waste management programs, that it can be entered into that from the Green Fund, and at the same session of the same Budgetary System Act, in the Nature Protection Act, it can be written that programmes, money for these programmes is required from the budget fund. I don't share this with you because I think that you should have solved it, but somehow, I'm not talking about it so you can give me an explanation or an explanation, I know it. I am speaking because the problem we face every day, each of us who is in the executive government and is dealing with environmental protection will face a lack of horizontal legislation every day. We don't understand what dialogue is. We don't understand that people from the government, from the province, from local self-government, from two ministries are supposed to talk about this by looking for a common solution. We don't understand that. It's a very big problem because if we understood, we wouldn't have these three suggestions ahead of us. With the dedicated work of the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Dr Branislav Blažić and I talked for two years about the need to be a fund. We've listened to the finance minister twice that all we're proposing is bullshit. Where'd he get the right? From where anyone's right to easily eliminate common arguments, joint efforts, including the ministry responsible for protecting the environment without justification. We're all gonna have a problem with that, big guy. The easiest thing to do is to be an opposition so I can tell you as ministers of the famous completely unproductive sentences - your finance minister, you can't agree, you don't know the job. It's the easiest and the most despised, because there won't be any new wastewater treatment facilities, there won't be a burner, there won't be any removal of non-sanitary dumps, it won't be clear to people in local self-government what geoparks are. I told the Committee on European Integration that and again to show that the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection has done a job for which we are responsible as MPs, we have had discussions on these laws, but it is necessary once again on the Committee on European Integration to try to establish this dialogue on the application of the law at different levels of government when it comes to geoparks because it does not work. People neither know it nor understand it nor think it will benefit them. Will there be a report on the application of this law? It's now a context in which we make the law. The announced elections, so the formation of the Assembly, so the formation of the government, so the first laws, the government pulls back what hasn't passed, so it brings new ones, so October is the first month where we can talk about what happens to the deadlines and with the application of these laws. It's not like there's anything to blame, it's not a shame. I'm just saying that when this area is more than any other area, then we need people who understand what dialogue is horizontal and what are deadlines. So, in October, maybe we'll talk about it for the first time until the sublegal acts have arrived or how much the European Commission has assessed that we are also prepared for this area. Is that a waste of time? I don't know. But I would like to attend the process of discussing these changes and additions leading us to the will to work a little on the dialogue we need, so that these laws can be applied. That goes for all the laws. So, horizontal legislation applies to all other sectors, but it's not here, if it's not there, then there's no law enforcement, and unfortunately, we can give a lot of examples of how time, probably the resources of another species, because we haven't been able to establish a dialogue because we don't care. Obviously we don't care. We expect someone to come from somewhere, to solve this dump problem, with protection regulations, with clear means of money that the polluter pays for, what is spent on, with everything that is our Serbia. It's a personal thing I share with you, I don't understand that part. How much do you have to hate this country to throw garbage wherever you come up with it? I don't understand that. By the way, into the water, into the stream, wherever, as much as it has to piss you off, you don't care about that place where you live to deliver the tanker from the septic pit, to deliver the shot. How much do you have to not love? I'm not asking you to explain it to me, I have a problem with it, because I think it's kind of intolerant to my own environment, and I don't think it's something that's natural for people to have, but it's obvious that a lot of people don't care about us. For the end, it means, with my remarks on the key problem in this area, it is a lack of structural dialogue, of horizontal legislation. I'm not saying that because now I belong to the opposition, that's what I told people in the area when I was a ruling coalition and I'll always say it. It's not about talking to me, it's about talking to each other at all, if we're at a local level, in the province or central, we're coming with a solution. It's as if we're involved in this enmity towards a healthy environment, completely unnecessary. People usually feel that their system is supposed to be at their service more often than their associate. It's one of the great reforms that we need to do together, it's that famous story about us coming to the counters or getting memos or whatever we're doing, we feel that the system is our enemy, that you're fighting the system, instead of being in service to that system. I mean, he's getting money from the budget to be at your service. I often get the impression that I can't support the fact that horizontal legislation doesn't exist because we, I don't know, are enemies of each other, but I see proof that it's gone, it's that I'm given the argument that there can't be a green budget fund in the Waste Management Act, because of the Budgetary System Act, there's one in the same session of the Nature Protection Act. Aman. I mean, I'm gonna vote for all three laws, even this one about livestock. I think that our change to really become similar to the countries of the European Union is such a big goal, that there is not one compromise, not one effort big enough to do it, but the schlamper is unnecessary, because there is knowledge, because there is money, there is no will to really have what the European Commission, you know, they write it in one word, there is no horizontal legislation. But they can't come to create a dialogue with us, it's also the beauty and horror of European integration, we have to do it with our own knowledge and our own hands. Just one short question I also shared on the Committee on European Integration, which concerns pharmaceutical waste. It was introduced into the Waste Management Act, the current context, again because there is no horizontal legislation, because you have too many people who say – it's not my job, he doesn't care. He comes to a meeting where he needs to get rid of himself – well, this isn't my job, anyway. That's why we're failing in places where we could be successful. We have a rule that whether you're a physical or legal person, you take it away, but we miss what the pharmacies are doing with those drugs. I've known pharmacies that are now stored, since the law is in force, but that part is missing. I am aware of the process of a year of sublegal acts and since it is a problem, it is not about waste processing facilities, but about the problem, I only asked the Committee to try to establish clear protocols in the sublegal act, or to establish this horizontal dialogue, so that it can talk to apothecary institutions or where people are already carrying their unused medicines, that they do not keep them, because they do not know what to do with them further. With the hope that if there is any progress in Serbia, it will be in the system of environmental protection, I will only briefly look back at another important thing that the promoter, the government and the ministry, will bring into these laws and that is something that already exists with us. This is information about the environment, about the state of the environment, about being available to the public. That's incredibly important. I can, let me put it so much as I can, you can be upset by all sorts of people from both the civil sector and the university community, the academy, the volunteers, they can be a pain in the ass, but these are your most precious associates, the best possible correction. I can piss you off, because I'm an opposition, you can do whatever you want to me, it's already the political folklore we're used to, but the jet message to the public -- this is our country, the common, the laws we're changing it to have to be ours, the projects we're talking about how water, soil and air will look because we have some regulations, and you include the largest number of people who want to be involved, that's the most precious of all that can happen in this sector. Power runs out when we mention citizen involvement, it's no good at all. What our Committee has done, therefore, with the Archus Convention, the application of the "green chair" in our Committee, is another example and gives good co-operation, as well as the formation of a green parliamentary group. Here, the formation of a green parliamentary group comes with electricity. Electricity in the Assembly prefers MPs than citizens, that's not good, that's what we're going to change, fellow MPs. He says he's had enough. With the hope that we will use the time until October together for, at least, the application of this law, I remain confident that we will not make real progress until there is real dialogue between different levels of government with a completely changed perspective of all participants in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49873	Since the electronic system is now stable, we can continue to operate. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49874	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable MP for the support she has shown in the laws under consideration today, and I would simply like to comment briefly on some of her remarks and suggestions. First of all, you are talking about horizontal legislation and it is true that there are certain problems and that this coordination and communication, starting from local level to the highest authorities, would have to be more effective. Of course, you should also know that always this coordination and string are not visible enough and transparent, so that even when it exists in some satisfying degree and form can be undetected enough by the public. That's when it comes to local self-government, provinces and the ministry. But it is my duty and duty to say, when working at the level of the government itself and the co-operation between individual ministries, several ministries dealing with the same issue, in this case specifically between the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment and the Ministry of Finance, I must say that we have established really great cooperation in the past period, that this co-operation has been recorded at the level of the government and that those results I mentioned earlier and that I have pointed out would certainly not have been such that we did not have the support of finance and that we did not have the support of the government in general. The principle of work of this government was such that activities at the inter-resor level, i.e. inter-minister level, were supported to the maximum. We have indeed had this support in financial terms and in any other sense, and therefore the results are those that are simple to show and point out, because they have been achieved in a relatively short period of time. As far as this coordination is concerned with the local level, there is indeed room for improving co-operation and I think that in the next period this segment of coordination must be paid more attention and more work is done to improve coordination and communication with local self-government. You're right when it comes to a green fund that's in two laws that we're simply explaining today as a green fund, and the Waste Management Act doesn't stand for that term. Formal-legal, the Law on the Protection of the Environment regulates the issue of funding and waste management. But you, I say, are right again, it may be good and it's safe to define that part more precisely, and, behold, you submit the amendment and we will adopt it, although I think it's not a fundamental mistake, but you or the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, if you submit such an amendment, I say, we will adopt it. Thank you, for seeing you think the same way we do when it comes to protecting the environment and obligations not only of the government, the Ministry, but of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I have to say, I didn't say this in the previous presentation, I think you'll understand that, as I think it will be well received and understood by our citizens, it's that we have been given the effort, the work and the energy we have invested in the previous period and the trust, and I must say, and the sympathy of our colleagues in the European Commission. They know that what we have done has been practically what is possible in this period and we have assurances that the deadlines we have proposed for the implementation of the Directives and regulations are acceptable, or simply in one sentence - that we are ready for the opening of the negotiation process for Chapter 27. We expect these announcements to be met from Brussels and that this chapter will be very quickly opened, among the first chapters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49875	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49876	We are today considering a set of important laws in the area of agriculture and environmental protection for which Serbia is harmonising its legislative framework with the primary and secondary sources of EU law and thus adopting European Union standards, for which it is a candidate. These are amendments and additions to previously passed laws, the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on Waste Management, and amendments to the Law on cattle farming, as well as two international agreements on the agenda. As an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I want to put forward a positive position on the proposed laws at the very beginning, and we will vote on these laws. I'll talk about some aspects of the law from this search. The fact is that environmental protection is one of the widest and most demanding areas on the road to Serbia's accession to the European Union. The protection of the environment is dedicated in particular to Chapter 27, which implies harmonising our national legislation with the basic objectives of the European Union's environmental policy. The essence of this policy is the preservation of natural values, promotion of a responsibly responsible economy and sustainable development and concern about the health of the population. So, these proposed laws don't solve all problems, nor have we reached the top of perfection in this area when it comes to legislation and regulation, but certainly one major improvement has been made in this area and, of course, there is a need to monitor the circumstances and all that is current and what needs to be upgraded at a given time. Environment policy is multi-sectoral and cannot be implemented effectively without harmonised and integrated sectoral policies. Therefore, implementation of the principles of sustainable development in all activities and sectors of economic and social development is a prerequisite for the survival of man and our planet. That is why it is the obligation of all of us, and of course the states above all to create conditions for sustainable development that is consistent with nature and its resources and values. We must not forget that man is only a part of nature and that he cannot pass it, and in this way we have an obligation to preserve everything that is nature, everything that is life and to align and compare to the laws of nature in order to preserve nature and the living world for our offspring. That is why I also view the laws which I see on the agenda as a responsible effort by the state, namely our Government and the Ministry of Agriculture and the environment, to bring our legislative framework into line with European standards, but also to deal primarily with our natural resources and to protect them, too, to be responsible for managing the consequences of economic development that threatens the environment. First of all, it's creating huge amounts of waste, communal, dangerous, industrial waste, household waste, etc. When it comes to the first in a series of laws, the Law on the Protection of the Environment would highlight the importance of some changes that improve the system of environmental protection and the system of responsibility for endangering, devasting all elements of the environment. As a particularly good legal solution, it should certainly be commended for the re-launching of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia as a special budget fund that has been discussed for a long time, as well as for a good model for financing the environment. Turns out it wasn't a good thing to cut off the Green Fund that was present earlier. The Green Fund will be allocated and this is good, based exclusively on a public competition that will call the ministry exclusively for financing the protection and promotion of the environment, for precisely established activities and projects, for strict supervision mechanisms to be carried out by the ministry. The risk of abuse comes down to a minimum, and I particularly point out this because there have been various abuses in the use of funds from the Green Fund in the past. Environment funds will be provided both from the Republic of Serbia's budget and from local budgets, from pre-accession funds, from various donations and from other funds. Budgetary funds, green funds at all levels are also set up, which means that responsibility for protection will descend directly to the local levels at which polluters are operating in practice, in life. The second law from this set is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. This law includes, among other things, the aspect of rounding up the environmental protection system, protecting nature and all its values, wild flora and fauna, geomorphological, geological values which are the witnesses to the history of life on earth. We have a good example that speaks of keeping what we have. On the day of statehood of February 15th, the Republic of Serbia, Google, placed one of Serbia's most beautiful geomorphological values on its front page, the Devil's Varosh. It was really nice that the whole world could see such a natural beauty. The law introduces new concepts such as geopark. Geopark is seen as an area of clearly defined surfaces within which science, education, culture and economy are protected, preserved and promoted. The law establishes another new institute, which is the environmental networks of the Republic of Serbia aimed at protecting areas with habitats of rare species of wild flora and fauna. This is a significant paper in the law because it long-term protects our rare endemic species of plants and animals and, of course, their habitats. It is particularly important to point out that part of the law norms the conditions for keeping and marking live specimens of wild animals in captivity. In particular, live specimens of wild animals can only be held captive if their welfare is not compromised, i.e. they are provided with living conditions that correspond to physical and biological specificities, i.e. animal health. In this sense, defining the concept of a zoo animal shelter, prescribing conditions for their establishment and work is a major step towards establishing order in this area. The provisions of this law aim to prevent illegal acquisition of valuable specimens of game and specimens of wild flora and fauna and to prevent illegal traffic in the country and cross-border traffic. Also, mandatory recording and marking of live specimens of protected wild animal species is prescribed, therefore, the obligation of anyone who becomes the owner of a live specimen of a strictly protected or protected wild species. What Serbia has as a permanent problem, which is because Serbia's area is an attractive hunting area is the export from a country of caught specimens, capital samples of savages. As far as I know, procedures have been undefined completely, so many of them have been illegally taken out of the country, and now this law regulates the issue of cross-border trafficking of wild species, parts as well as their derivatives. Conditions and procedures shall be tightened and provided for in the sanctions and controls of this traffic, and these shall now be given to the customs authorities. The third law I would speak of is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Elimination Act, which also regulates this area much more precisely and quality. By observing waste management, recycling and placement of a new product not only as a factor in environmental protection but as a new business space for the achievement of numerous green jobs. The law introduces a new concept of a by-product to stop the status of waste, as waste gets the status of goods, i.e. it gets a certain useful value, and its processing is an economic character. In this regard, the need for more complete and precise offices to be treated by all participants in recycling has been recognised. Through the organised waste market, trade and waste and waste materials is introduced into legal flows, thus eliminating the illegal waste market, providing the state with an increase in budgetary resources and revenues based on increased VAT collection and other legal, tax obligations. A good solution to this law is also to ensure continuity in the work of new recycling facilities that are subject to the issue of an integrated authorisation. The fourth law on the agenda today is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming. The application of the Law on cattle farming was passed seven years ago with amendments and additions made in 2012. In the meantime, much has changed in livestock production so that there is a need to further legalise this area, especially as we know that livestock farming is the basis of every serious agriculture. The aim of these changes is to create preconditions for further improvement of livestock, production and production in Serbia, which primarily means raising the size of the livestock fund, but also raising the quality of all livestock products. In the last 15 years, we have been faced with frequent disturbances in the livestock market. The stock fund has been down for years. Fortunately, in the last year, the decline trend stopped. We have set out to stabilise and grow the stock fund, which is the result of good incentive measures for cattle farmers taken by the government and the Ministry of Agriculture over the past two years. In addition to the number of livestock funds, if we want to stabilise the domestic market and increase exports, we must also ensure quality. The law also defines new concepts and defines livestock production and products. Thus, the concept of aquaculture is defined as a place to grow fish, as well as fisheries products, and closer to all conditions and procedures for opening them, for growing and transport. The law as a new concept introduces both farms and savages, which represent a new way of organised game farming. Through numerous solutions, the law protects the breeding of indigenous races of domestic animals and introduces the obligation to keep registers of indigenous breeders, which should allow accurate records, protection of domestic races, the process of processing and increasing the number of conditions. The control measures are also significant over the traffic of livestock and livestock products and they are strengthened by this law, and in cross-border traffic these measures will be carried out by a border veterinary inspector, who is being introduced as a new category of inspection service by this law. In general, these changes in livestock production allow for the realisation of the objectives of the agricultural strategy relating to livestock farming, which is to increase the livestock stock, protect and develop domestic races and adequately control of the traffic of livestock products, both from the point of view of food safety and from the point of view of the legality of that transport. Since I come from the Mlava-Homoli area, I want to point out that this area, the Mlava-Homolian region is a beekeeper's neighborhood, and you know it, in that respect. You, a respected minister, have had the opportunity to visit their exhibitions, fairs and manifestations, but I would like to include in the name of the beekeepers of the Mlava-homolj region, who are engines and triggers of beekeeping production and these beekeepers now receive new powers by law to collect data for bees pastures and for bee-bees cadastres, and will also have the obligation to inform their beekeepers of the action to combat mosquitoes in a timely manner to protect their bees. Finally, let me briefly refer to two international agreements, which we are considering in the context of this joint single search. The draft law confirming the amendment to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context sets out to bring Serbia in line with international obligations as signatories to the Convention. The second Convention concerns the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, and it is also important to us. This is not to be specifically discussed, at a time when there were great supporters of such a species and, of course, it must be pre-warned by any possible accident in this regard, and it is good that we have approached such an agreement, which we are going to ratify these days. Once again, I will express my satisfaction that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49877	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49878	Thank you. In his presentation, the MP mentioned beekeeping, which was particularly covered by the Law on cattle farming. So, as a special addition to this law, the question of the bee association and their role in improving the conditions for beekeeping in general is introduced, and for the production of honey. In that sense, I would like to point out that this is an extremely important branch of livestock, that it develops year after year and that in 2005, we had 270 thousand hives, last year almost 700, approaching the figure of 700 thousand hives in Serbia. Of course, we have greater potential. The evaluations of experts are that we can successfully cultivate, i.e. we have a million hives, and in the coming period I expect this production to expand. Simply, I want to highlight the importance of the beekeepers' association, the importance of beekeepers who deal with beekeeping and the importance of this production, because despite the great number of hives and old trends, the increase of their growth, we also record a constant trend in honey production. So last year, we produced about nine thousand tons of honey, we exported more than a third of honey to markets and Germany and Austria and Belgium and the CEFTE countries, so I just want to point out and to commend just beekeeping, of course and livestock production completely, but especially beekeeping and to support all those who deal with beekeeping to continue working, to continue investing and that simply all of us who are in these positions will help with maximum and through basket subsidies, but also through subsidies in terms of supporting investment in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49879	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49880	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wish I could share optimism as my previous colleagues. The environment and agriculture share the fate of a common, the fate of a corrupt, abandoned and abandoned country that we found in 2012. A state without a chance for the present and future generations, that the parties of the former regime have lost power. Honey and hives have been mentioned here a little while ago. The former regime's party has been acting in style toward agriculture and protecting the environment – you want to get honey out of the hive, and then you dump the hive. You can take the honey out of the hive as much as you want, making sure there's something left for the bees. Since they did not take care of it both in agriculture and in environmental protection, the harsh consequences of the regime’s rule, which he looked only at in his wallet and in public affairs made private businesses. As far as the environment is concerned, I will support the Green Fund, Green Employment, the Green Economy, but I must warn you that you must fight with us, so that it does not come from the current budget division intended for agriculture. It has already been significantly reduced and any further reduction can endanger incentives and thus produce production. So we have to leave something for the bees and we have to keep an eye on it, the party of the former regime worked the other way around. I don't know, bees have 60,000 bees, two to three thousand drones, which only hold bees as long as they use them. So, on one drone comes 30 drones. The former regime's party turned - 30 drones came to one workshop, who watched only how they could take as many honeys and distribute money from public sources as much as possible to their neighbors, etc. I don't think that fund should have been abolished, my opinion, although there were major irregularities. If doctors in a health care home or in a hospital embezzlement for treatment, they should be arrested. Thus, those who embezzled funds from the Environment Fund were to be arrested. I ask you – why hasn't Zeljko Cvianovic been arrested? I ask the D.A.'s office, the government doesn't arrest. I wonder why he wasn't prosecuted when he himself admitted an obvious conflict of interest? A recycling adviser to the then Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic transferred 3.5m euros to a company where he was the founder along with others, a hidden founder, for the recycling of technological waste. In the end, he is now suing co-owners who do not recognise his co-ownership rights. I wonder why the D.A.'s office isn't responding to a non-intentional waste of funds from the Fund. Why isn't he responding to imports of second-hand batteries, second-hand tyres, etc., where they were setting up jobs for themselves and their loved ones from the funds? What about funding media, various newspapers to write about the environment, about the action "Let's Clean Serbia", and in fact they wrote about the campaign of one party, the party of the former regime and its satellites? That's why this fund has been keeping up the budget, because the government wants to monitor how money is going to be spent, not that one of the officials as during the former regime's party redistributes it and does business, the environment, as our people say, who cut. I haven't seen any progress. I saw they built Olympic pools from the Fund. So it's out of the question that someone is building pools in the future green fund. As far as agriculture is concerned, I am in favour of bringing agriculture into the EU, but I am not in favour of abolishing it because of EU accession. It was a tendency the former regime party had. That's what I'm going to try to prove in the follow-up to this debate. I must tell you, we must be extremely careful with this. The economic power of a country will soon not be measured by gold, diamonds, and I don't know what, but by the amount of food and drinking water that the country can produce. If we want to use food, then we need to appreciate more the field, the plum, the barn, the pighouse, the henhouse. If we don't want the drinking water gone, we have to appreciate the source. Otherwise, we'll experience the possibility of lying on a pile of gold and diamonds and dying of hunger and thirst. This country has all the conditions for the development of agriculture, but we must not pollute the environment when it comes to water or air or land, because if we pollute it, we will endanger human health. A healthy poor sick king envied. On the head of a healthy poor man a sick king sees a crown. When we lose our health due to disrespect for environmental protection, we will have problems with treatment costs, etc. It is therefore necessary to protect the environment and agricultural production. A crime has been committed over this country in agriculture, and most likely in the environment as well as in all other areas. I'll try to prove it. It is signed by the SAA, which no accession member with such content has signed, where excessive liberalisation has been carried out too early, where we have said – please come to our market immediately, we will unilaterally apply it nine years before entry, and when we come to them they say - levies, beef customs in Greece. That's not fair. We have exposed our farmers to unfair competition, which have eight times less incentives than Europeans, and additional EU and Russia sanctions have produced additional effects for our agriculture and our farmers. Those who negotiated the content of the SAA certainly knew what damage they were going to do, but their friends were tycoons and foreign trade chains, and they were both obstacles and philosophy - better introduced than produced, they were at a disadvantage from agriculture, livestock farming and livestock development. This will not be just a matter of agriculture, the Law on cattle farming and the laws in the area of agriculture. It's a matter of demographics. That's a security question. It will be a matter of the integrity of this state, of sovereignty. They're emptying the territory. On the one hand, we have industrial dead cities, where there is no work. On the other hand, we have a province, we have rural areas, where there would be work, but there are no people, there are no people who can devote themselves not only to agriculture, but also to preserving the environment, and people will be when they realize that agriculture and farming is a perspective. There are countries with diamonds, gold, natural resources, good climate, but they're poor because people don't know how to use it. There are countries that don't have any of that, Switzerland, but people are complicated, people have organized and exploited what they have, unlike others, through this organization have enriched themselves and their citizens who live there solidly. The crime committed in Serbia is called loss of livestock. In 12 years of the former regime's rule, Serbia has reduced the number of cattle from 1,720,000 to 920,000, 800,000 less, a pig for 4.209.000 to 3,235,000, a million less, sheep 2,100,000 to 1,700,000, 400 to 500 thousand less, livestock seven million less. I believe it's fun and funny for some people, I don't. The value of what we lost in 12 years a year, because it would reproduce, a billion euros unworked. Through the processing industry, not by finalising, at least two billion, at least two billion lost our cattlemen, our employees in processing capacity, in the processing of meat, milk, eggs, etc. The fall has been halted, but it will take years and years to make up for it, given the situation between Russia and the EU, sanctions, where they, defending their farmers, are jeopardising ours. We introduce levies with strong resistances and objections from the party of the former regime, but we may not introduce them until we experience a disturbance in our market. We have Europe selling cheeses for 1.8 euros, which requires more than 10 litres of milk. Only EU milk costs 3.2 euros, plus energy and labour. With powerful funds, they keep their farmers and the goods, thanks to the SAA, without customs duties, placed on our market. According to Article 32, we can resist and introduce levies, but only when we prove our market disturbances. Nevertheless, we keep an existing stock fund and try to increase it. It's not hard to prove that it is. Cows 25,000 dinars, sows, sheep, 7,000 dinars, 40% supply of breeding material, etc., lambs 2,000 dinars, goats 2,000 dinars, tawdry pigs 1,000 dinars, 10,000 dinars of bulls, etc. Seven dinar milk premium. We've all agreed here to have at least seven dinars. It's a support to livestock that the former regime's party didn't have. I think Serbia can be pulled out of the crisis by three oxen. One is agriculture, together with livestock, agriculture energy, which should also feed primary production and processing industry, which can also only from abandoned land to supply the primary agriculture that we produce, as well as the energy processing industry, that what farmers produce in the fields their sons, sisters and daughters, process as close as possible to the place of production and thus save Serbia. He who saves the Serb village saved Serbia. Whoever doesn't want to see it is blind or malicious, because I believe, unless we do anything about the Serb village's agriculture, that the final act of Serbian tragedy will take place right in the country. I'm not looking for this because of the peasants. The peasants ask nothing to be given to them, nothing to bow to them. They're just asking to have the same rights as those whose production on the outside is endangering their production. We don't have that money, because the former regime's party destroyed the stock fund and processing, and by privatising cattle it was almost expelled from agricultural land in Vojvodina and not only in Vojvodina. I have proved to you the value of this robbery that no one has ever spoken of, which is called, the loss of the livestock fund. You've released 300,000 hectares of the cooperative state, instead of three billion for 50,000. This damage is far greater. We lose a billion euros each year, without processing, and the processing industry works with 30%. I believe that all of us here, who want to do good, should be aware that the people of the former regime will not remove the stones from our path. I expect that, especially in the campaign, some rock is on its way, making it as difficult for us to get out of a situation that monitors agriculture and protects the environment. I advise you to unite, and it's important that we go in the right direction, it doesn't even matter how fast we move, how important it is that we don't stop going and go in the right direction. I firmly believe that this government has its own continuation in some next government, that it has its own direction, that it will not stop going during the elections, that we will step by step try to reach those who are far more economically powerful than we are at this moment. Salaries and pensions, ladies and gentlemen, we need to get out of production. Our product must no longer be called debt, we must no longer live than the man in charge, we must live on what is earned. We have to spend time working, trying, sweating, not on the couch, not on the Brions, not on the Maldives, not on the Brions, not on the Maldives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49881	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49882	Thank you, Ambassador Risticevic. Just a brief clarification due to the underlying dilemma whether financing the environment, in the context of the Green Fund, will go to the expense of agriculture. I mean, it can't happen, it's not gonna happen. The funds programmed as the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection are clearly specified in individual sections. As for the Green Fund, the Green Fund will be filled with funds collected as fees paid by the polluter. We expect significant funds in this fund from donations, from various contributions, from international organisations and associations. So the funds are exclusively from environmental pollution and as donors, not from any other sources. This fund will serve precisely to address issues in the environment, which you have highlighted, and in order to improve the quality of life of our citizens, and you know well, we all know, whether or not, that we provide significant resources to address these issues from EU funds. We need this fund as a stable and secure source of co-financing. Large projects, major infrastructure projects will be funded from European funds. With this fund we guarantee 15 funding, and sometimes more, up to 30%. Not only that, this will be the means that we will use to clean up polluted locations, to remove historical waste, to stimulate the development of the economy, the recycling industry, to new jobs and new jobs. Therefore, only the dedicated funds which are pooled under clear criteria and which, by the same clear criteria, continue to be over-loaded to address environmental issues. That all of this is going to work the way I said it would, it's enough guarantee that the government is behind this, and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, not some special body, special authority, director, board of directors, supervisory board, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49883	Thank you. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. He's not in the O.R. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49884	It's hard in five minutes to say everything that needs to be said on this subject, but I'll try to say the most important things. Of course, it is always a question of why an emergency procedure, why we always have this topic that 1,600 pages of text, here to see viewers, we get a call 48 hours ago and MPs are expected to read all of this with attention, take their political views, criticism, advice. Realistically, even you who wrote this wouldn't be able to read it in such a short time. Question - why was the Fund for Environmental Protection abolished in 2012? I see here that the reason for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the protection of the environment, writes – the removal of the fund has provided the need to find a solution for a stable financing of environmental protection, the abolition of the fund in September 2012. What did you do if it's now a reason to form a green fund? What, the one was blue yellow, and this one's green now? Is it just a question of color or does it have some essential character? The question is, where's the money, that green money? In a report that I've barely been able to read, part of it says that 25 billion dinars of green money have been collected in the last five or six years. Where's the money? We heard from the minister where 415, 416 million were spent in the last two or three years. Where's 24 billion? Did these money, which they entered the budget, as gray, so it is not known where they went to "AIR Serbia", "Belgrade on water", or do I not know what they are already doing, or are they invested in what their purpose is, and that is when the polluter pays, that what it pollutes, is being remedied or prevented? Do we have in this law, as in none that we have received in the last three or four years, an analysis of the application of previous regulations? What's in the previous regulations, which are now changing, well, what's wrong, why is the law changing? We have here an explanation that the law must be changed because this same government, in September 2012, shut down, abolished the Environmental Protection Fund so that now, five years later, it is not five, three and a half years later, that it will establish a new fund, which is green. It's totally unreasonable behavior. Who in your ministry is in the field of environmental protection? We've been collated that only the minister herself represents these laws, the bill's proposals. None of the ladies and gentlemen sitting around are mentioned. It is obvious that the minister is not involved and there is no need to take it negatively. Of course it's your specialty agriculture, and it's clear that this is another topic. It was missing in some public debate, at least in meeting MPs, not at one session of the board, but in several public hearings or such a process, we came to a wider understanding of this. If a public debate was held without Serbian Parliament MPs knowing it, it was not held. That, half the night when you don't know, somewhere, so there's no need for such an important topic to be on the shoulders of just one party or the fastest of a coalition. We'll be against these draft laws with the risk that there might be good solutions. They say that the EU's directives are mostly prescribed, and all of this is understandable, but we cannot give our trust in material that is of this size without enough time to get into essence. Justification that it's important for the opening of a chapter doesn't absolutely stand. We are not opening a chapter for environmental protection tomorrow but for Kosovo, and no material related to Kosovo has entered this assembly in the last four years, and these are the first negotiations. Therefore, with all due respect to the efforts of the people who, I am sure, have entered with the best intention of creating these draft laws, I think that there remains too much ambiguity and not the things that have been done, and that is why we will vote against, and I would like to hear the minister's answer to this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49885	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49886	I'll try to answer some of the questions you asked. First question – why has the Fund been abolished since 2012? The fund was abolished because it did not comply with regulations and rules, because the fund's budget was zero and because it had very many pending cases. So that's why he's been suspended. We are now establishing, also the Green Fund, it is also called this previous fund, but it is a completely different model of the fund, which will guarantee that the funds from this fund will go really into solving specific problems and environmental issues. As for 25 billion, as far as you're saying it's been collected from taxis and environmental fees, I really don't know what that data is and how many years from now. You say you spent only 410 million, that I said, I did say 410 million, but those are the funds that apply to protected areas. It means the functioning of the protection system and the work of protected areas. So far greater funds have been allocated over the past two years, and the damage due to the fact that the fund has been abolished due to the problem in its functioning is evident and this government solves this problem in one way and we simply want to believe and I believe that this model of the fund's functioning will be far more transparent, far better and more efficient, safer in the final line of words. At the very end of the line, in one word, we will not leave problems and unresolved and unfinished projects for people who come after us to deal with the same problem. As far as the questions are concerned, how much publicity has been addressed in the preparation of these laws, the public has indeed been addressed all along, of course, to those who wanted to know what we are doing and who have been amended and supplemented by the proposed laws, in addition to the public debates that were in the context of regular activities in the process of preparing the law for the assembly debate, i.e. parliamentary adoption. We had in cities, in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, but with all that you remember when we were defending, I think it was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, that at that time I invited all the MPs to also gather and participate further in discussing the proposed laws in the field of environmental protection and this debate, these discussions were indeed held here in the National Assembly, organised by the Committee on Environmental Protection and for all the laws of three days. So I think we really wanted to listen to all those who had something to say, all those who wanted to help with useful suggestions, suggestions, etc. all with the aim of getting to the best possible, better legal proposals and legal solutions. That's it. Thank you very much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49887	On what basis, Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: The minister spoke to me. ) Addressing is not enough, it must answer your discussion and your questions. Just that in a negative context she mentioned you, or in a negative way, but you have no right. Here, you have your lawyer who responds immediately. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49888	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Becic. Article 104, as I believe all of us MPs know and probably respected guests and guests are defined by the right of one MP to reply. Mr. Becicu, Mr. Zivkovic used the findings found in the bill and its reasoning by arguing his position. In response, the minister said she didn't know how to get Mr. Zivkovic's information. Mr. Zivkovic now has the right to reply, because the data that was written here was being used. Dear gentlemen, anyone who has listened carefully to this debate has read materials, as we have done, it is obvious that now there has been, has noticed that the minister said there is no information in the materials Mr. Zivkovic used exclusively from the material. I ask you, Mr. Becic, to give Mr. Zivkovic the right to a replica, I believe I have very well explained why Mr. Zivkovic in this case has the right to reply, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49889	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. In this case, you did not properly represent Mr. Zivkovic. I'll read you why. Article 104. - if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, we are now not applying it defined as a minister, we are now applying it in this way, so that it is clear to the public, when I mention the MP, in this case the minister, in this case, nor is it offensive, nor is Mr Zivkovic belittled in any way. In order not to further talk about it, it is clear here – on the use of the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article, the President of the National Assembly or, in this case, the chairman. So I'm deciding that Mr. Zivkovic had no right to a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49890	Article 103 that defines the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the right to it. It's no big drama. It's very simple. Mrs. Secretary was giving incorrect information. I said 25 billion was collected based on a green bill... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49891	If you try to use the wording for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Minister, it is my duty not to allow you to do so. I understood it had nothing to do with the offensive expression. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How can I explain the replica to you?]] You're saying now that Madam Minister didn't have the information that you have, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You are afraid of what I will say about the law. If you think... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I ask that the assembly be declared. ) Here, Mr. Zivkovic, I will give you the right to reply for one reason only. Because you say we're afraid of what you're about to say. Here you go, since surely this government and this majority are not afraid of what you're about to say. You only have for that reason, even though I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure right now. Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49892	I have no intention of entering a dialogue with you, I wanted to be in a replica, that's what I'm going to do now, point to two things. First, you gave incorrect information on why the fund was abolished. It's not true there were zero dinars. When the fund was abolished, there was a couple billion in the account. You said the fund worked badly. Well, that doesn't mean that the fund needs to be abolished, but that's to get the one who did the bad work. Was he sent to prison by the bad guy? No, of course not. That's what we say, the previous government was doing bad. There's a law being passed on the abolition of the government. No, a new government is being chosen. Therefore, there was money in the account and there was no reason to abolish the fund and to start a new fund three years later. Secondly, you don't know what it says in the materials that you brought in, so I asked you who's in this area. On page 79 is a chart, and on page 80. The draft law amending the Law on the protection of the environment writes – revenue obtained from fees after 2010 – 4,792,000,000, 2011 – 4.200, 2012 – 3,700, 2013 – 5.178, 2014 – 7,500,000. It says here, I added it up, and it's about 25 billion. You don't know what your material says. My question is, where's the money? Where's the money from that? Have these money been spent on "Belgrade on Water", for "Etihad", for I don't know who? Another question for someone who deals with environmental protection. Is there an estimated risk of environmental hazard for the "Belgrade on Water" project, since we know that there are three, four, 10 million... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49893	You see, Mr. Zivkovic, if you had broken the Rules of Procedure, that I had not seen in your answers in any way that the minister had offended you, which would have given you the right to reply. So the counselors you have in front of you and beside you do not give you advice. There you go. There's a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49894	It's just, I think it's a misunderstanding. Of course, I know the data that you provide relating to the revenue obtained on the basis of fees – the polluter pays. But these are the figures of the year 2010 which you show here in your materials, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014. When it all comes together, I didn't add it up, but here, it's probably 25 billion. Now, I asked where you got the information about how those funds were spent, and there was a mix-up, because this government was formed 22 months ago. We had compensations that were poured into the budget and we financed from the budget, unprotected areas with 410 million, but a series of other assets in solving environmental issues. So please, we just paid off two billion debt to the recycling industry in 2014. So we haven't made a retrospective of the funds now spent, where these funds were spent. In 2010, 2011, 2012, there was a fund. And now you say, "Why is it abolished?" The real question could be given to those who were then in my place, so they'd probably explain to you why it was abolished. What I can tell you is that we have taken over 2,000 items that have not been solved from the Environmental Protection Fund, the Green Fund, that you or some of the others have left us. Anyway, I don't mean you personally, but someone before us, I don't mean you personally. Please, I've been listening and I really appreciate you, let me say what I want to say to simply explain what this is about. Two thousand unsolved projects from this fund and not to mention those projects that we provided funds from the European funds that we brought to some extent, and we didn't finish them. In doing so, we cannot use additional funds from these funds, and on the other hand, we are at risk of getting an account, that what we took and didn't finish, we return. So the legitimate question arises, was it justified at that time to shut down such a fund that could not solve environmental issues and simply try to solve this problem in some other way? We have accepted that we solve problems in a transparent way. We can't do much and it's very visible to our citizens, but we're certainly on our way, because after that, we managed to regain trust and re-commence and get funds from these funds to solve environmental issues. I just wanted to point out that maybe you didn't understand me very well, but don't think that I'm really thoroughly preparing myself for every congregation debate and not just reading the material, but simply putting all the data together, comparing, preparing graphics to be ready for this kind of discussion. I just don't know where all the funds went in 2010, 2011, 2012, etc. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49895	You have no right to a replica, last time I broke the Rules of Procedure, and now I don't want to. Mrs. Comic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49896	Thank you. You've injured a 27. That binds you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49897	When did I do it, Mrs. Comic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49898	Now you've done and made a statement between MP Zoran Zivkovic and agriculture minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49899	It must be directly, Mrs. Komic, you know the Rules of Procedure very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49900	Directly now you have made a sentence – you will not violate the Rules of Procedure. That's what you did last time. So you're under obligation not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 gives you in the last position the right to assess whether the MP or the participant of the session, whoever, the minister, is a representative of the independent body, whoever, has the right to replication. You cannot violate the Rules of Procedure by applying that position, by giving the right to a replica or by not giving the right to a replica, and you have deceived all of us MPs and violated the Rules of Procedure by saying just now, so, after Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic has finished breaking the Rules of Procedure by giving the right to a replica. It is simply not possible because it is your right to give or not give to a participant a session of the replica. You cannot violate it in either case, and I ask you to explain more carefully how you conduct a session so that you will not be constantly in a situation where I notice that you are violating Article 27 without taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49901	Mrs. Komic, you have just denied what is said in the last sentence. In the last sentence, you said I wasn't breaking the Rules of Procedure. I just said - if the conditions are not met for someone to get the right to a replica by giving the right not to reply to someone, I violate the Rules of Procedure. Whether it writes to a businessman or it's my free judgment, it's not relevant in this case. It is important that if the terms of the Rules of Procedure have not been obtained, and I have given someone the right to the replica, I consider it a violation of the Rules of Procedure whether or not it is written or not, and that is what you said in the last sentence to try not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, I've been a long MP, and I remember well how you applied the Rules of Procedure. I even received a large number of penalties according to this Rules of Procedure and the manner in which you interpreted it, so I think that you should not be someone who will now determine and decide and assess whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not. I don't think that's moral, if you have the right as a MP to do that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49902	You have again violated article 27 and article 107, which takes care of the dignity of the National Assembly. You cannot in any way judge my moral ability and the willingness to speak at the National Assembly Hall, as you cannot justify the fact that you are violating the Rules of Procedure by having at any time led the meetings of the Assembly. We can only have communication with each other if you, as a MP, take a place and speak, and then we have a dialogue on the subject. That you take your right as chairman to judge who can and who must not seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure and to explain it, it is not allowed to take place in the Hall of National Assembly. I'm sorry you find it fun or resourceful or nice to communicate with, but it's not working, and it's not working out for you. Everyone talks about themselves as they speak in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49903	Yes, I think most MPs are supposed to interpret it that way. I just said that you have the right to do it, like any other MP, but in order for you to be consistent to me -- if you've interpreted something as the chairman then, I'd like you to interpret it now. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49904	Ladies and gentlemen, given the recent holiday, I'm obliged to say, given the collegiality, about where our money is, because the question is, where is the money? He says, "Early, Živorad, to cut down the vineyard, the vineyard was a scheme, now it is gone, no more vineyards of our comrade Živorad. That's what happened with the money during the rule of the former regime. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he's found someone to ask for money. He could have asked for, say, children distracted by development, for "Hetherland", to ask the duke's authority, his coalition partner – where the children's money was distracted in development. Most likely, they're in the hands of the Duke's government and politicians with special needs. I can bet, but since we're asking about the environmental fund, here we go in a row. The site during the rule of the former regime, which I would make for nothing, and these IT tech guys, they might also be free, it might cost a hundred, two hundred euros, with a gentleman who was a minister, yes, a certain Dulic, cost 25,000 euros, two hundred and fifty times what any master would do to you and create a website. That's where the money from the Environmental Protection Fund is, but only partially. There's a company in Subotica called DG companies or di gi, or how it's read, which, miraculously, owns certain Dulic and has received 16.8 million dinars from the Environmental Protection Fund. Now members of the former regime are asking - where are the money, because there was no fund. Better he's gone than spending money like this. Let's see the famous - let's clean up Serbia. One newspaper publisher, journalist, yes, the opposition was nearing the leader on Radio Focus and two, three hours on that Copernicus or what was called, it wasn't censorship, it was just like that, I think, they favored us, now I don't know what all the media had, and they complain about censorship, and then to strengthen the government, the publisher of one newspaper or two newspapers transferred 60 million dinars, on the principle of January 20th, you submitted a request, and already on January 21st, you get 500 thousand euros from the Environmental Fund whose chairman was Dulic. That's how money was spent by those who are now asking – where is the money, because the Fund is gone. When the Fund was, they also spent a lot of money on imports of second-hand batteries, for imports of second-hand tyres, for setting up jobs. No one to answer for Zeljko Cvianovic. The man was with the Deputy Prime Minister, the famous one – the aunt's kid sleeps on the couch, tomorrow 12 million, you become the Duke of the “Meridian Bank”, behold, a miracle counselor with whom he particularly boasts that he will contribute to the popularity of this, the one, open a factory for the processing of technological waste, as it is called – mobile phones, for himself and his business partners and now sue them for his share. Imagine the conflict of interest when he transferred 3.5m euros for the management of technological waste, opened with partners the firm and, in parallel, served as a adviser to Bozidar Djelic. Well, he's an actor. He played for the Oscar. But the money, the 3.5m euros, came out and now still has the strength to sue his friends for cheating on him for a share of property he couldn't show, because, behold, he was a consultant to Djelic for garden recycling, for exactly what he allocated funds to his partners. Of course they won't answer. Those who need to answer started asking questions. It's not a question for the government why they're not in jail, not arrests the government, it arrests the reformed judiciary. They won't arrest politicians from their own party. Those who reformed the judiciary established the court of their party and the court of their party did not arrest their party leaders. I understand that because we may have chosen or confirmed the election of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors, perhaps one or two percent of the total staff in the prosecution and the judiciary. That's the answer to the question why the government doesn't arrest you. She can't arrest, it should be done by the prosecution and someone who has a very good relationship with the prosecution could certainly have found it in his own house. But obviously it's better to ask questions than to give answers, but no one gives me an answer that's been committed to our cattle fund, speaking of the Law on cattle farming. Is it true that the number of pigs fell by as many as I claimed? No one will suspect that information. It's a waste of every year valuable livestock living scales a billion euros unprocessed, so much has been lost by our cattlemen. If it had been reworked, not finalized, it would have been worth at least two billion, those other billions had lost our workers, which is why they were out of jobs, which is why they were brutally cleaned up, cleaned up, and that's why this country is brutally robbed. Thank God they didn't rip the eagle off the flag, coat of arms. That's the nature of that government. So instead of answering, they are now asking the question, and the main question – where part of the stock fund, why it is decimated, halved, why we have damage every year to two billion, not only because they have carried out the tumbling, raw, wild privatisation, but because they have fired workers, the livestock has been destroyed, the stock fund has been destroyed and the processing capacity is working from 30% to 40%. Now they expect everything they've been ruining for 12 years to get somebody up in one day. Well, there's no growing livestock production from Belgrade pasture and beet pasture, it can't be raised. That's where the buildings are built, there's no cattle, at least I don't see this one with four legs, so no one's offended. So, who owes us answers now asks questions. Is it true that because of the decimation of the cattle stock in 2014 we imported live pigs and pig meat by 700 thousand throats, is that correct? They were still preventing us from amending the Land Act, that at least on state land we ask people to have state land, property of all citizens, function as much as possible of the social product of livestock production and processing, that those who are truly owners, citizens, all of them from the state of Serbia are the owners of that state, made through those who are engaged in warfare, livestock, to make as much product as possible per hectare. It's their interest and they've challenged us. So I ask – is it true that in 2014 we imported pigs and pork 700 thousand more than we exported? Because it's a product of decimating the stock and losing a million throats that they found, a million throats more than we found of them. Is it true that last year in beef, 2015, we were down 50 tons? Fifty tons we've imported more than we've exported, that's the result of the loss of 800,000 throats. However, we managed to preserve the stock fund and manage to export live cattle, most likely for Bosnia and Herzegovina 53,794 pieces. If they had stayed, no one would have been exported, and now they're asking a question. I thought wisdom came with age, and my colleagues only go years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49905	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Dr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49906	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us a set of environmental laws. They, by nature of things, represent one serious liquid of every country, and I believe that their presentation and coming to the debate in the Serbian Parliament is part of a serious job that needs to be done and that will put us in line with the serious countries, as we are. In addition to these laws, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on cattle farming is also on the agenda. He's a very necessary, necessary law. However, all this would be fine if the promoter had made the effort, as Mrs. Minister said in her presentation, to read thoroughly, to prepare legal proposals and how we saw mainly through some kind of political campaign, how everything is going forward and it is necessary to get rid of it. However, the legal regulations that have come, I will specifically refer to the Law on cattle farming, because it is from the work of my education and knowledge, has come into congregation procedure with serious shortcomings, with more aspects. In a termological sense, it means that if you, Madam Minister, had read this law, you were a professor of the university, you would have withdrawn this law from the procedure or would have ordered that your associates or those who wrote these changes. One of the terms that you left here in the law, which, fortunately, we agreed to change on the Committee, is the term "s sperm production". So I have to say, regardless, it's a biological process that results from excretion of accesory sex glands with the addition of testicular secretion, like sex glands in a male. So sperm can't be produced, it's the property of every mammal, bird, reptile, etc. Seeds can be produced because these ejaculates, secretions, add ingredients that make it longer in life, survival, in terms of spermatozoids, and provide an opportunity for one such gene to be prepared for cryoconservation and use unlimitedly in time and space. So, first termologically, every veterinarian in Serbia who would have heard you say this and probably a doctor and probably an agronomist would have told you that you hadn't read this, and you're a cattle professor. The livestock law has other shortcomings and is expected, given that I am 25 years in this area, and it should prescribe what are the methodologies, which are the conditions, to improve the conditions of livestock production in this country, so that with those potentials that we have, both in genetic terms and in production capacity, we can come to food products, in terms of meat, milk, products obtained from domestic animals, which would be competitive on the European and world market. In order for this to be achieved, the law and the legislator should have ambition, to prescribe measures, offices of matter, to regulate relations between those involved. We have been given a law that provides that, say, in the law as you have stated, so in Article 1, you have basic breeding organisations, and then regionally and ultimately, as you said -- the main one, which is nowhere in the world termnologically exists, there is a central republic. We're the country. There's no such thing as a boss. So there may be a major association, but there can't be a main breeding organization. There could be a central one. I've submitted the amendments, I hope you understand. This debate is not political and political marketing – we have this, we have that. When we talk about how much we have, I'd like to remind you, it means that we're talking about arguments that exist, numbers -- the stock fund hasn't been dropping for the last 30 years, and I heard that the prime minister said, don't tell him the truth. In 1985 we had 1,850,000 cattle, in 1997 we had 1,300,000 cattle, in 2012, we had 900,000 cattle, you have a list of agriculture, today we have 600,000. So that's true. What's the big deal? It's terrible if someone doesn't want to change that condition, it's terrible. So what this law should contain is – what are the measures that we are going to increase the stock fund, what are the measures that our manufacturer will take to order the manufacturer who deals with the product that is a commercial product that can find the price and place on the market. This law has not solved it, but it has therefore solved one matter where we have been given an explanation that, for example, reproduction in livestock farming, which is artificial insemination, which is one of the measures of promoting bovine animals, there is another measure, because of the viewers I must say, that is, fellow Members of Parliament, is natural mating, but the chosen individuals whose properties are known, whose health condition is known. So it's not just mating where we get - one plus one and we get one. This may be in some conditions in which ethics must be involved, when it comes to agricultural production. In livestock farming there cannot be that ethics, in the sense of keeping an eye on the preservation of an individual who is in the production capacity of less quality. So when you said artificial insemination, then the explanation was that everyone, including the breeder, was to get as close to people as possible. As is done, and you have stated in the law - artificial insemination is a timely instrumental introduction of sperm into female sex organs, meaning again incorrect term, in order to fertilize and is performed as a professional procedure in livestock farming. For each professional procedure, education is necessary, so professional preparation. You didn't foresee it by law, but you predicted a good will because, according to the Committee on Agriculture, you promised someone that you would finish it. So I ask you to take seriously the measures concerning the future of this country. I completely agree with a colleague who's not here, a colleague who presents himself as a peasant by profession, that it's necessary to help, to call our senses, that we all do what is necessary to increase the stock fund and that what we have is improved. The order that should pass this law, which is not passed because I have not seen that Serbia's central breeding organisation should foresee implementation based on the breeding goal, based on the breeding programme, as a measure that should be given, for example, to make it clear to citizens, if we want to make more milk production, we should choose the bloodlines of the breeders, if it's about beefing, and if it's about gambling or sheepmaking, which will give more milk production, rather than letting everyone get what they can buy on the market or what's most often and cheaper. The role of livestock farming is to allow maximum production by planing, state-of-the-art methods. Madam Minister, it's our only salvation in this country. Let go of the stories of the Ironworks in Smederev or the big factories. I come from a small environment where we saw that small factories, and above all agriculture, go into a kind of family business that that poor girl who lives in this country, especially in the southern parts of Serbia, binds to her country, her cities, their households, and they remain there. Otherwise, they come to Belgrade and then we have a country that has agricultural capacities, but has no agricultural production. What is still a lack of this law, means it is affecting its decisions on the jurisdiction of the law that already exists and thus derogates the solutions already made. We know that laws must be passed and one must not be in collegiate, or contrary to another. So, by the very act of determining someone who can do it because you probably didn't have enough information to do it seriously, which, by the way, can be said in the West by a licensed breeder, who is specially trained and controlled in the work. So to sum it up, we're not against it as much as possible. There are instruments that the state will use to provide that to every breeder, every producer, and these instruments are to help him get as simple as possible and as cheap as possible to what he needs to get to, to quality genetics. And in the end, there are areas where no one wants to work. Not a lot of people want to live. The State must, i.e. The ministry according to this fact state of affairs to find special authority for people who want to live there and work, including artificial insemination. I thank you, I expect you, by accepting amendments, not only by my, or by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZ, by accepting the amendments of my fellow MPs, will seriously improve this law so that we will not be thrown out of ridicule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49907	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49908	Thank you. I don't know why this law would be thrown out by mockery. On the contrary, I was not involved in writing this law. The law was attended by university professors who were experts in questions and livestock and veterinary and I believe they did a good job. I have to say that I have read the law, I have really gone into the extent to which I felt it was necessary, given that I have a lot of confidence in the expert working group that prepared it, and I really haven't noticed any shortcomings to which I should point to my associates, to point out to the Committee on Agriculture or to correct them personally. I was expecting, and that's what happened, that experts in this area get on either the Committee or the assembly debate and say their remarks and their suggestions and I thank you. As far as the objections are concerned, I don't see any fundamental remarks. It's mostly your observations of termological character. You know, I've been paying attention to the essence and what we need to achieve by this law. Indeed, I did not pay much attention to whether it was more correct to say “summary production” or“ artificial insemination seed. ” But you forgot that these were amendments and additions to the Law on cattle farming, that the Law on cattle farming was passed in 2009. Now I wouldn't be talking to you if you didn't ask me to rephrase it, but I would ask you, where were you in 2009 when the law was passed? I, as a university professor, worked with students, but I think your position was exactly like that at the time that you were able to create more terminology than I am, much more, because as far as I know, you were also director of the Department of Veterinary and all these years of your work experience, you're attached to the veterinary profession and veterinary practice. But, of course, I agree with you, if you think it's a more proper "artificial insemination seed" to propose to the working group to change that term and it won't be anything controversial, the same thing as whether it was called the main or central breeding organisation and it's not disputed. I don't think we should find each other in this termological sense simply to face arguments and find the best solution as experts in a particular area. You make amendments, and of course we're really going to have no malignancy, someone just told me that I'm underprivileged, really anything can be attributed to me, but that the trait I don't think it can, so in that part, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. This part that concerns us being overly aware of the importance of the artificial insemination process itself, how important it is to be professionally implemented and how important it is in this zootechnical and every other sense, it simply does not stand, for the simple reason that we have provided for the possibility that the breeder performs artificial insemination in his own flock, but under certain conditions, and these certain conditions are foreseen by that first law, or by the 2009 law, and these conditions are not now changing. You know, well, look, we're gonna get to the point where you didn't read the law well or you didn't remember what you suggested in 2009. So, here, in Article 38, it says that this breeder, or cattleman, who will be able to perform artificial insemination in his own flock, is a man who must have a minimum medium professional training, agricultural or veterinary orientation and, of course, other additional training related to vocational training. Now we're coming over, I'm going to look back again, I have to look back at these questions of the stock fund, you know how, statistics is a strange science, simple data is what they are, and they are unequivocally showing a trend in the reduction of the livestock stock of all kinds of domestic animals. You know it well, you can take it and you can look at it and it's nothing controversial. Whether it was a million and two hundred, then nine hundred thousand and so on, it's not at this point of crucial importance. What we always point out is that trend of reduction. That trend when one moment it stopped at some level and when it showed even slight growth, it was encouraging to us. We don't do data by heart. We have the data and the Ministry introduced the publication of the Green Paper, 2014 through 2013 and 2015 for 2014 and now we work for 2015. There are data that show, you may not be able to see the best now, but show a decrease, and then in 2014 it stops. We, by this production of milk and meat production, about how much money we give for premiums, for the breeding throats, then we still have the added optimism that a negative trend has really stopped and that we are going in a positive direction. The quality indicator of livestock production is not only a number, it is not only a stock of animals available, but also this selection work. The work that we are now supplementing is being promoted through the Law on cattle farming. What does that mean? It's just that our MPs know that we're not in the profession, like the two of us, it means that we have more milk per cow, that we have more meat per drowned animal, whether it's a pig, sheep and so on. So let's get to quality and get to quantity. It's the essence of this breeding, selection work. And if we had good results here, that's what I showed today at the beginning of the session. So, in 2014 and 2015, data relating to the number of congested throats. You know what that means, all kinds of domestic animals. Please, here, these red charts are in 2015, these blue ones are in 2014 and we see for all kinds of significant increases in the number of wrapped throats. Because of this data, I'm really happy and I believe that you believe that this trend will continue, and these are the signs that are important to say that we really have succeeded in stopping the collapse and that we have a positive shift. He's mild, but simply, in my opinion, now it's impossible to stop this positive trend. We're not going to let it stop, of course, we're going to keep working with the same elan, with the same heat, and as a colleague, of course, I'm calling for you to help us in this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49909	Replica Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49910	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't be taking too much time because it's a long-term debate. First, I wasn't the director of the Department of Veterinary at the time, and thirdly, performing artificial insemination by the breeder is your term, which then results in people who don't have education being able to do. The Veterinary Act has defined who can do the job. And not to bother you, I know you understand me, but Minister, what you've shown as, please, Mr. Mladenovic let me finish, yet you're our guest, what's important is that this chart you've shown, we should say that he's increased. Why? Because that's what I'm talking about by the program of improving country livestock, but these breeding organisations that I'm talking about don't work, and that's only 10% of the total population covered. Tell me if I'm wrong. Only 10% of the population covered. In European countries developed, such as Germany, Switzerland, Austria, which we are trying to oppose, they have 88.90% of the population under control, and you have 10% and these results are not an improvement. When you have over 50%, when we all have, and believe me, we're not on the opposite sides, we're on the same side, and we all want to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49911	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the area of the environment, we have many inherited problems that have been dragged back and forth for decades, and we are not some big exception, all the countries in that socialist bloc, very little attention being paid to the environment, protecting the environment. We had the 1970s and 1980s very fast development, often and scytheically and in any case, the basic feature is that there were no concerns about the environment, and even later in the 1990s, whether because of many other "important" problems and we neglected the environment and in that decade, and we came into a situation today that in many environments we have very serious problems when it comes to land and air and water, a series of dumps that my colleagues have already spoken about not to repeat, a problem with industrial waste that has partly arisen from outdated technology that we have not had the opportunity to restore in the previous period. But if something from all that's behind us we can conclude and say that we learned some lesson from that period behind us, it's that there is no sustainable industrial development without the environment. Investment in industry, not taking into account in the environment, cannot possibly mean that in some future period we will achieve a better quality of life both for ourselves and for our descendants. Therefore, the area of the environment, very important, very important and we have some extenuating circumstances, as it is said – happiness in accidents, sanctions, privatisation, transition, inflation, unfortunately our industrial production today is at the level of the early 1990s and all of these pollutions, given some of our previous concern and lack of some regulation, would have been even greater had it not been for what happened, regardless of the great poverty of our citizens, even in the area of the environment. The situation is not satisfactory, but it can be repaired. It can be improved primarily thanks to the fact that the industrial countries, the European Union, of course, have, above all, recognised that the good part of the EU rules applies to the environment itself. According to some of the data I have come up with, one third of the EU's rules apply to the environment, which shows how important it is for the EU itself and for us, of course, as future members. In fact, the European Union has created a matrix that can move and should move all the countries that join the EU, that community and, of course, it concerns us and we, by adopting these laws and by proposing these amendments and supplementing the law, are moving in that direction, which is very positive. So what is waiting for us is, in any case, very complex and serious procedures that affect and in everyday life, and it is very important that our citizens know that all together, not only the institutions of the system, not just local self-government, but all of us, each individual has to deal more seriously in everyday life when it comes to environmental problems and to show a much higher level of consciousness, that is what our obligation is to us and the future of this country. So, citizens, the public are very important and I come up with one quality, a new quality of this law, something that should be praised, that these amendments and additions of laws allow more involvement of citizens in environmental problems, that they mean much greater availability of information when it comes to the environment and much more transparency. What this law further characterises is the state aid that can be provided in this area of the state, which must be in line with the law that we passed a few years ago in the area of state aid. This is important for us because the area of ecology is quite financially demanding, although it is now obvious and business, and more business, it should be stressed, but it also provides the possibility for serious investment when it comes to foreign investors in those areas, of course where they recognize the possibility for a large number of new jobs, which in any case is cancer of the early Serbian economy and of the Serbian economy. Therefore, in all areas, above all, when it comes to waste management, when it comes to recycling, but also in others when it comes to habitats, there is a lot of opportunities for private initiative and this law in fact highlights this, it provides serious financial resources when it comes to the Green Fund and industry and agriculture, and in terms of energy, the possibility to improve the situation in all these areas. Then, what I think is also perhaps one of the most important characteristics and the most important qualities of this law, it is the market. It's simply a possibility to form a waste market, to define transport, treatment, trade in waste. To include more subjects on that market and thus have a lower price and quality service in that part. I think we should also commend those provisions regarding nature protection. This, I would mention, concerns about habitats, the possibility of setting up geoparks, the transport of flora and fauna, means cross-border traffic, control of wild animals even in zoos, which significantly improves this area and one more quality and modern approach to wild animals and that regulation, and that is something that should be commended in any case. It should be said that opposition MPs are also absolutely right when they expect more in the area of the environment. It is also well aware of the ruling majority and the government itself, because in this area, environmental protection needs to be applied around 600 more regulations. It's mostly sublegal acts. These are some technical requirements, certain legal solutions. It's all a process that has to last. It is a process that will last the moment we are in the EU itself. Therefore, the criticisms that are coming are based at first sight, but they are not rational, because as I said, it will take a lot more changes and a lot more legal changes, more new laws, new procedures to build everything that the EU has been building back on for decades and decades into our legal system. Therefore, we need to be patient, we need to understand the opportunities we currently have and the capacities of our institutions. We also need to understand the financial problems this society and industry has, which should be allocated in that sense. It's easy to criticize. It needs to be realistic and it needs to be understood that this is a serious progress in the legal procedure, which began to develop a few years ago. In the end, I would agree with those MPs that we have a major problem with local self-government, that we have a major problem with the application, control and criminal sanctions in legal regulations. I am sure that we will have to make an effort in some future period and I am sure that all together we can have a common position that we have one more important quality mile in terms of environmental protection, the adoption of these laws, and, of course, in the coming period, will go towards improvement, according to our economy and our institutions' capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49913	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49914	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, do you think that the environment is in these patterns that you show today? It's not. Either we know the job we're doing, or we solve problems or we don't solve them. Can you say that you are satisfied with the state of the environment in Serbia? I doubt it. It's not just your problem. The problem arises long before you, but there's a real state of affairs where every pattern you show today ends. You're two years Minister of Agriculture and Environment. You're a dominant farmer. You work life environments, I'd say, more at one technical level and not a lot to blame. You're doing a pretty good job. You make laws, talk about them, talk about them less, that's one of my criticisms. But actually, the first criticism I'm going to give you is that the state of the environment, that is, the environment itself, is too big for us to be able to keep quiet about it, so that we can keep quiet about it. We need to talk about it here and here in Parliament and outside parliament, because the environment and the preservation of the environment just starts with laws. The conservation of the environment continues in the family, on the street, at school. In order for that to happen, we need to talk about this, about the environment we can't keep quiet. That's the first criticism I give you. The second criticism I give you, I think my colleague Zivkovic talked about it, 2000 pages in 48 hours. The amendments were to be prepared, prepared for the law. We took part in public debates, followed streams. As an MP, however, always be careful what the draft is, what the law is and what comes to parliament. I know that the environment is a very large process, a protection of the environment. Chapter 27, the biggest chapter in negotiations with the EU. That is understandable, two-thirds of the EU's legislation is from the environment. But you certainly have to give more time to the MPs to prepare for such very important laws. These are roof laws, which I think are seriously late. These are changes and additions to the law. The crown laws were passed in 2011. In serious countries, in Germany, environmental laws, nature, change at six months. This sphere is very dynamic, but we have one paradox in these laws, that the transitional provisions say that you will bring the sublegal act one year from the date of entry into force of these laws, so we will have the 2015 law and the 2011 sublaw, which will apply for the next year. I'm telling you, this is such a dynamic area, that, say, in Germany for six months, these laws change. They're being seriously debated. We, I fear, are silent about the environment, and we have much to say here in Parliament. I can support that technical part of these laws, aligning with European directives, ratifications, or contracts. That's pretty well done. My main grudge is what my colleagues have apostropheed before me, but it's not too burning to say a few times. The Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia is becoming budgetary. They all said it as a remark. I'll try another angle to talk about him. It can't be budgeted. Every penny that is realised in principle – the polluter pays, must be returned to the environment through conservation and promotion of the environment, every dinar. What's going on with this law? You guys define the Green Fund as budget. The government will determine the funds that will go into this Green Fund and automatically undermine the basic principle of environmental protection, the European principle, that the polluter pays, the pay user, the environmental tax, in terms of 2011 in the Environment Fund was 5.1 billion. By shutting down that fund, that money has been withdrawn into the budget and probably put into consumption. If, for example, seven billion are collected this year, as planned, I think, and the government determines three billion, what about the other four? It's the money paid for by contaminants, and they're being put into consumption, and only part of it comes back through the conservation of the environment. It's a major grudge. There, the Environment Fund was much better. It is one of the better things of the 2006 government of Vojislav Kostunica. That set of 2009 laws came to pass for the first time, I would say, that principle that the polluter pays. From that Fund, the minister, you have that data, 10,000 green jobs have arisen. It was planned for five years to reach 60,000 green jobs, a new 60,000 green jobs, and it all stopped in 2012. I am the Sokobanja MP, known as the green heart of Serbia. That's what we had to fight for. We cleaned 60 dumps in a year. They're new, but we're fighting. We have a problem with the main dump that can't be solved, because it's hard to solve without a regional dump standing here for seven years. I repeat, the environment, either we know how to solve problems, or we don't know how to solve problems, or we do business, or we don't do business. It's not the environment in those patterns. A waste management system was set up by the 2009 law. Operators were founded, companies were formed, licenses were obtained. Thousands of collectors have been hired, employed, I say, over 10,000 jobs. Suddenly in 2012, by abolishing the Fund for political reasons, by withdrawing money into the budget, five billion, there was no zero, you said – zero, 5.1 billion, in 2012, everything absolutely stops. What are you doing in 2016? I would say, with serious EU remarks, because when we were wondering, we shut down the Fund in 2012 and with serious criticism from the EU in 2016 we are re-establishing, but now budgetary. Where does the law say that any money that is realised in principle – the polluter pays, will go to the preservation of the environment? Nowhere. I've submitted the amendment to this particular member. We'll talk about it on Friday, but think ahead of time about adopting that amendment. I have defined that every single dinar that is realized by this principle goes back to the environment, returns through conservation and promotion of the environment, and thus, through such dialogue, through such exchange of arguments, we make this law much better. The waste management law has quite well-defined things, better defined management of dangerous and harmless materials, well-defined management of medical waste, where the manufacturer undertakes to adopt a plan for the disposal and management of medical materials. Then I came to the part about local self-government, and then my thought was that local self-government had to be strengthened right through this kind of Green Fund, and what I came across in the Waste Management Act. You wiped out the 2011 Environmental Protection Fund and there's no Green Fund anywhere. There's a problem in the municipalities right now. Waste management – it is the most expensive part of environmental protection. You are actually making it impossible for municipalities to use funds from the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia for waste management. You leave the most expensive part of the community at large when it comes to this part. And that's where we tabled the amendments, so we can talk about it. I'm afraid the environment, when you take the highway, you see all the devastation of this resistor. I think we're choking, Minister, in the junkyard. We don't solve these problems. The technical part of the job is doing great – we are preparing the state for negotiations on Chapter 27. That's a good job we're gonna do. But what about the field problems? With a fund like this and a piece like this of the Waste Management Act, we're not going to solve this problem, it's going to get bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49915	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49916	Thank you. Dear Mr. Nikolic, thank you for the opportunity to explain again what I've already said. I just want to say that your dilemmas about whether or not we're talking about the environment, are we ready to tell the public what the situation is in the environment, are we ready to fight to improve the situation in the environment, simply that remark I don't think stands, because we have prepared Parliament for adoption in the previous 22 months, 22 laws, per month by one law. You know well that I am in Parliament very, very often and that when I come to Parliament, then MPs talk to me about the most different topics in agriculture and the environment. You know I've always been ready to talk, I'm always ready to hear criticisms and suggestions and suggestions, so the public, when it comes to the environment, about what's going on in this segment, what's going on and what's going on and what's going on, has really been an opportunity in the past 22 months to get to know, maybe not to the details, but to be aware and to understand and to realize that in this period we've made a big step forward, a big step towards additional measures to protect the environment. We've passed 10 laws, and we're proud of these laws, from the very environment, but not just with laws, but with those technical things, or those things that are visible to our citizens on the ground. So, as far as public participation is concerned, your objection does not stand. When it comes not only to this part of public participation in terms of the minister's ambassadors, but also to public participation in the planning of strategic documents, there was an even greater representation of the highest public, the expert public. So all those who wanted to be involved, who wanted to help, had a chance. In addition, we have a lot of those that we called on to be involved and they were, of course, involved. In addition, I would only say that the development of strategic documents, in the previous period worked over 25 institutions, scientific and professional institutions and about 200 domestic and international experts and predecessors of different institutions that, with their expertise, contributed with their work that we also had strategic documents, which were adopted, in terms of law, but also in terms of action plans for the next period. And you now have an open invitation to always, if you want to be informed about what's going on or what's going on, go ahead, our doors are always open to you. As far as the Fund is concerned, I've spoken before – it's not very grateful to say what happened before 2012, which is why the Fund is shut down if you don't have all the detailed information. But I have detailed information that 2,000 unsolved items from that fund have been inherited, not by me, but by my Ministry. And we, with all the problems that we're dealing with right now, have the problems of that period. Where will you get more proof that something was wrong and that something had to be solved how it was solved? This budget fund was established in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. So, according to the Budget System Act, we had this opportunity and we simply accepted it and we think it's good, because if the Fund was what it was in 2012, we would now have to have a special number of people who are employed in that Fund, we would have to have a director, board of directors, board of supervisors, a space to accommodate these people and material and technical Wednesdays and, in addition, we wouldn't have a good enough insight into how the fund works, how to prevent any attempt or possible abuse. This is how we transferred that responsibility to be the responsibility of the entire government and the Ministry of Finance. I have no doubt that this fund will work well, that it will show full capacity, that from this fund, from the means of taxis that the polluter pays, that from European funds, donations will provide as much money as we can implement in large infrastructure projects, in environmental protection, in terms of waste management, etc. I don't think there's any reason you're doubting that we're really going to do everything we can to make sure there's no problem here in the functioning of this Fund. What is good, what should be pointed out is that these laws also went to the European Commission to agree, that colleagues from the European Commission have accepted this model and that they think that it is really good, that it should be supported. So there were some suggestions in the very text of the laws that we corrected with them, but when it came to this model of the fund, there was really no objections. Just a little more. You say you got the materials 48 hours ago. I remind you again that we were really open, we are in the Assembly all the time, we talk a lot with the MPs, I personally invited you to further, with that regular and regular public debate, participate in public hearings organised by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. You don't have the space to criticize us in that part now that you didn't know. You know, we've been working on this for a very long time, we've been here and we've been calling and asking all those who would help us get as good as possible, as possible, as high-quality bill as possible to address us. Please don't preach now. At the end of the line, the laws arrived 10 days ago in the assembly procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49917	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and let the Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49918	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the environment is dependent, above all, on four factors, it is a geographical-climate factor, the second, awareness of the population, individuals, and especially people who decide and manage, the third is finance and fourth, the law. I will try to analyze my factors to give an answer to the state of the environment of Serbia. When it comes to the geographical-climate factor, the fact is that our ancestors have left us with space, perhaps the most beautiful and pitomitous in Europe. They've left us room to live here, to promote it, and to leave for generations to come a place worthy of the lives of a nation, a man. There is still this love that we carry towards nature today, both the Government and the NGO and many individuals struggle day and night to make a step in step something better for the environment in Serbia. But that is where we come to the question of the consciousness of the population, and we must give a clear answer to that. Our environmental consciousness isn't at the level we'd like it to be. Unfortunately, we live in a time when a man began to treat a man as a thing. We've lost some love, we feel all our personal pain, we don't know that we feel the pain of other people. We have this kind of relationship with the environment, and we don't even know that we can feel that pain of the environment. As a result, it often appears more important to people in some municipalities and will always pay more for a singer than it will do with its consciousness to clean up a dump and solve the problem of water in that municipality. We live in a time in which we are going through very difficult and painful reforms, and these reforms are exactly one healing and saving of this society, and these reforms are precisely in that consciousness that I am talking about today, because they create responsibility, reforming the responsibilities of the fundamental foundation of an advanced and healthy society. So when it comes to this awareness, we need to start with children, and we need to make everything about environmental education come to school, with all due respect for civic education and religion, I personally think that teaching children about healthy life and getting them into school education will contribute far more to raising those children. You know, when Vienna once had a water supply problem, the leaders tried to convince the population to start saving water because they were in trouble. They did not find the answer, people still spent as much as they had before, and then the leaders of Vienna remembered to call on the children for help. They reported to schools and said – children, we have to save water, do everything to reduce your parents' consumption of drinking water. The kids answered that fantastically. In a very short time, Vienna reduced the water consumption by 10%, but the children stood behind their parents and watched how much he spends water as he shaves, whether his tap leaks all the time. You know, the great Duško Radovic said – beat the kids only when they start acting like you. And that's the big truth. So, I mean, and I filed that request on behalf of the Committee for the next year to be a year when we try to put environmental education into schools. What's also important to give that answer to the state of the environment was here to say that we are in some catastrophic state. That's not true. We have our own problems, it is not controversial, but far from the fact that Serbia's environment is in catastrophic condition. We are even in better shape than many countries that are members of the EU, but they mean no better. It's going to be and it has to be better, it's not at all controversial. But we have to be realistic. We need to be realistic about what our options are and how much we can do that. We can't go any faster than life. We can't do more than our options. We'd all like to do a lot of things, but we need to understand that the healing of this country that we're going to, above all, the recovery of the economy and the recovery of the economy. When we make that cure, we'll heal all the other parts of our social life. First of all, these laws are, more than once said, the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. And in the European Commission's report, we got this, that we are doing everything we can to bring our legislation in line. We are harmonising the 14 directives with these laws. You know, sometimes you need to think carefully about whether we need to get all those directives in line with our legislation at once. Can we do that? So we don't go any faster than we need to? Will we be able to do that in practice? If we can't do it in practice, then we make some promises that we won't keep. We must learn not to make promises that we cannot keep, as they do in the EU, we must learn not to ask too much of us, not to ask for something that we cannot do right now. We would like to have European standards that is not controversial, but believe me, we can join the EU and not meet all EU ecological standards. Croatia committed itself only in 2023 to meeting its ecological standards with the EU, and is already an EU member. So you shouldn't go any faster than you can. We must first of all see what our interest is, to bring our laws in line with the possibilities of our economy. Don't cut the branch we're sitting on, we'll lose both of us and no branches. In that sense, we need to make a good assessment of the system, how to implement things, and how to adapt at what rate. After all, we made a commitment by document to fulfill certain things by 2018, when it comes to our legislation. There's been a lot of questions here about this funding. I even heard some discussions – where are the money from the fund that was abolished in 2012? You know, I remember that story, where the money, the robbery point, that's what Mr. Canak used to say about getting power. When they received power under the slogan - the point of robbery and where the money was, the greatest robbery of the Vojvodina in its history began. Now, I'm telling you that I know a man who, after these elections in Vojvodina, will put an end to the robbery of Vojvodina, the prime minister of this country, Mr. Vukic. Not only will he put an end to that robbery, but he will nail that point and the story of the Duke's robbery is over. It'll be over in the spring. Now I'm going to tell you about that fund, why it's been abolished. They say -- if we hadn't abolished the fund, the environment in Serbia would be booming now. I beg your pardon? So we need about 10 billion euros, to meet EU standards, which fund can buy it, what economy can we earn to think like that again? It's completely illogical thinking. What the trust did to make him do something to me would not have the environment we have today. We did more since 2012, when we abolished it, than the fund did until it existed until 2012. That year we inherited in that fund 7.3 billion debt. They're in charge of this country in advance, paying for some things that have nothing to do with a healthy environment. We inherited 1600 unrealised projects. We inherited 316 paid, not executed projects. It's only given to action -- we rip Serbia apart, 25m euros. Not to talk about other things. One municipality was given 550 million where there was no final report, where there was no confirmed situation and no idea where that money was. That's where the money went from the environment. Now someone's wondering, where's the money? Well, you ate the money before they could even make it. Therefore, gentlemen, how it was done and invested, for example. The dump in Subotica. It began to be built as well as Bourge Caliph, the largest building in the world in Dubai. In five years, Burj Califa with 830 metres of altitude and everything with a restaurant on 122 floors and a swimming pool at 76 is finished, and the dump in Subotica is not yet. It's been ten years. They built the largest building in the world in six years, and they've been digging a hole in Subotic for 12 years. Now let's talk about what, and someone asks - why do we let these people make "Belgrade on Water", normally give them because they're worth something. We're not going to give those who've been digging a hole for 12 years, are we? So we have to do everything when it comes to, to go back to these dumps and here I think Jovanovic has given one amendment, one proposal that those municipalities that don't want to enter into the system of sanitary dumps located near them, that they have to be treated as contaminants, because believe me, we've brought many strategies, but those strategies if they don't commit the municipality they're empty letter on paper. The strategy will either make municipalities think ecologically or make them not pay for some misery a year, but give money for the environment or there will be no effect. We must bring a strategy obliging that the municipalities that can do this must enter the dumps that are already built near them. What I want to say as a conclusion now – and that is certain that Chapter 27 is extremely demanding. I understand the problem of this ministry. It's hard to put such a huge area, such as agriculture, into more environments. And then, more and more, normally, they gave attention to the bigger one, and this is a little bit, a little bit pushed aside. I think, for one thing, after the new government, we have to think, at least as long as our process of opening Chapter 27 takes place, let's open it and our ministry here. Two, we're talking about billions of them, 10 billion. Gentlemen, we need to understand that the problem of the dump is 2.5 billion euros, the purifier's problem is three billion euros, we can very quickly resolve by opening the door to capital private through private public-partnership to solve all problems in Serbia. We can't wait to raise money in the budget, the Green Fund when we're never gonna get it. While we gather some technology and the world will go far ahead. Let's open the door, make a public tender unique for all of Serbia and settle all the dumps in Serbia in two years. We can do it, and we have to do it, but we can't wait as a Subotic for eight years to collect papers, but there's got to be some body that'll logistically end it all. That's what there are in the case of some municipalities. It's not just that it's the money the world is going to bring here and invest. Normally, we need to be aware that people aren't coming to give us that money, they're going to make money through that process at the dumps, and they need to earn money, but they're going to bring us knowledge. It'll bring us habits, it'll bring us a culture that we unfortunately lack, and we'll solve the dumps and we'll solve the purifiers that way. Otherwise, we can't, and then we shouldn't talk about these billions of people, but we can work out how to get these investors and how to get there. That's the third thing I'd like to say. This Green Fund must have a share that will go for those capital investments. The state can participate with 10% or 20%, and this rest will come a partner from the private side who will invest there and it will be a joint investment, and it must be implemented by the government. The government has to follow that. It has to be a transparent and unique tender. There's been a lot of raving where it came from in the environment. The fourth thing I'm trying to say is that it's an uninterrupted development of consciousness. That consciousness has to come to school. The media has to deal with it more. There's been a lot of reality and other programs. Let's talk about something that we will live on, what our children will live on and live on the future of this country. Fifth, what's important, and I think it's ripe time to cut it off and pass this year's environmental laws at once. All at once and if it takes two weeks for the Assembly to deal only with the environment and cut that story off. This looks a little like my grandmother's makeup, always changing and supplementing. Let's cut this off and make a system to follow through these very sublaws directives that change from the EU, not by laws, but by sublaws, and in this way we will be constantly in step. This is how we're gonna lose him, and we're really gonna be in the middle of us with the EU all the time. That's about how I see our environment. I don't want to talk right now. I'm going to speak individually through the amendments. What's very important in the law is that public. Believe me, without the public's influence, there's nothing we can do in the environment. She's necessary. She is that voice of conscience that must always be with us and that must follow us. What this law makes is that everything in the environment is becoming more open, more transparent, more public and the very impact of the population on both decision-making and control and on environmental monitoring is very important. It's a major shift, like the shift in waste, but now that I'm not getting into it, the market needs to go and it needs to be goods and the green economy needs to be developed as much as possible. It's the future and it needs to be developed. So this is one step. This is a good step. This is a step when it comes to the fund. This is also a step when it comes to environmental protection and waste. So let's go. It's moving forward, and I'm the only one who expects us to be able to speed up on some of the principles as I see them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49919	Thank you. Vladimir Pavicevic, and get Ljubisa Stojmirovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49920	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing five legislative projects in the field of environmental protection, and it is a good reason for me to congratulate together all individuals and associations fighting for environmental protection. It is, gentlemen, a battle for ideals, but I think a fight for life. I think, gentlemen, that in society and in the country with the most open-ended political issues, with constant constant facings, with a large number of major political problems all those people, all those individuals and associations dealing with air protection, for example, the issues of wastewater recovery, the management of waste water, whose call is that direction and which are dedicated to it today, I think we should welcome and congratulate them. Another thing, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, I think it is brave for you to come to the Assembly while the poor government, whose member you are, is the petty connections of the last days. The Prime Minister announced his resignation due to poor work. We here in the National Assembly are going to establish that resignation, and you, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, are still performing on behalf of such a government and heartily, as I have noticed from today's participation, defend one bad government. For me, it is a signal for one courage like this, but it was necessary to mention this one thing that I noticed, respected Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, during today's debate. I would recommend a different approach, that if we have already recorded the poor state of work of this government that you come here and say, on behalf of such a government, I must bear a burden, not so heartily as to defend it, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Third, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted eight amendments to these five legislative projects we are discussing today. We put them, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, in three groups. The first group makes you well-known so-called. language amendments. It was also necessary this time to intervene for non-compliance with Serbian spelling and grammar. Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, you're right. You are often a guest in our National Assembly, but there are other ministers who have often visited, and I advise you to follow the example of Minister Selakovic, who often visited, and then after so many of our dealings, the meetings finally in the legislative procedure he sent legislative projects without even a single word error. Your case isn't like that. Three amendments concern this. This will certainly be accepted by the amendments, but we have also submitted amendments to Article 32 on the proposal for amendments to the Law on the Environment in which we are introducing a new position to increase, or to tighten the criminal policy for one imagined possible case. Or, for example, respected gentlemen, the principle of transparency is one principle that all of us MPs and all of us representatives of the executive government should particularly cultivate when we talk about funding some projects or some public money activities. This is where we submitted the amendments to the article. 1, 21, 23, 24 of the amendment and addition of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, we want to facilitate the mechanisms for controlling the spending of this public money, which we want to ensure that some people on behalf of some institutions have to submit some reports to us here so that we can control how this money is spent. When it comes to transparency, gentlemen, how can it happen, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, you surprised me today, that one minister, in this case the minister, questions – where the money is related to this portfolio, says – how do I know where the money is for 2010, for 2011, 2012, 2015. You must know where that money is. If I'm a minister, if I'm a minister, here we will win the next election here, this power, I become an example. The resolution minister for a certain area, so there is no way, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that it might happen to me to ask one MP, as Mr Zivkovic did - where the money is, you get up and you say - well, I don't know where the money is, or you say - we have abolished one fund, we are now forming another, because he was working badly. That would be like saying -- here we win the next election, and we end the government's word, because the previous government was doing a bad job, and then we call it for example. Bigger or better. That doesn't make sense, Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49921	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49922	Do I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49923	No, I don't. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49924	Thank you. Indeed, you're going back to the question I asked and in terms of answering where the money is in 2010, 2011 and 2012, I don't think there's any need, but here, for the sake of the public, let me say it one more time. So, in order for me to say it with confidence and precision, I need to have information where people spent money in 2010, 2011 and 2012. I said I did not want to enter into details and money flows from this period, because these flows are covered by other institutions and other authorities of the Republic of Serbia. It's not my jurisdiction, but I repeat once again that we have 2,000 unsolved items from that period and we have the environmental problems we inherited and that we solve as quickly as possible. In doing so, of course, some specific issues cannot be resolved overnight, and we all agreed on this, just before, and the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection explained perfectly how many steps it is to settle the issues and to achieve European standards, along with what I said, and I think there is no dilemma there and that both citizens and the public are very well aware of it. In doing so, I want to respond to that first part of you, the opening part, part of the bad government, and I absolutely disagree with it, and I think that you, as you refer to me as unargued criticism, are also referring to unargued criticism and to the account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I came here today to defend environmental laws, laws in the field of agriculture, I prepared data, I prepared statistics, I am ready in this debate, but of course on committees, to document everything I say. When it comes to the government's results, the best information, the most accurate and accurate you could get just ten days ago. There was a prime minister here all day, why didn't you ask him and ask him specific questions, because he, like me, has specific details and results that he would present to you and which he represents in public? Know that these are precise, objective results that no one can challenge us, not even as government, as you cannot challenge what we have done in the agriculture and environmental sectors, today for me and my associates. So we're doing just as energetically, as fast as we can, trying to be good, to be as good as possible, with the same enthusiasm as 28 April two years ago, in 2014, and today and so we keep doing it when it comes to laws until the elections are called. We don't think about them, we think about defending these laws, because they're in the interest of citizens, they're in the interest of the economy, they're in the interest of young people, they're in the interest of new employment, the progress of Serbia. We will fight to prepare as many laws as possible, to improve the problems on the ground, to solve, to improve the quality of life of our citizens. Honestly, when it comes to our sector, we're here today with five laws. I'm sorry we won't be able to present to you the laws in the area of food safety in this conference. These are extremely important, good, quality laws, completely finished and prepared. They will arrive at the Assembly, it will probably be too late, but it doesn't matter, some other MPs and some other set of laws will consider it. That's what I wanted to tell both our citizens and you today, to understand that, indeed, both the maximum professional and maximum responsibility and the maximum speed we did, and our results are the results that are on paper, which are measurable, which are visible and which, unfortunately, no one can challenge us, unfortunately some who would want to challenge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49925	I thank you, Madam Minister. We've got a lot of reports. Mr. Babic? Replica. Mr. Jovanovic? Rules of Procedure. Mr. Miletić? So it's a replica. You don't have the advantage, Mr. Michaelovich. Let's go after the Businessman first, Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Babic, Mr. Mihajlovic, and see if there are any conditions for replication. You've got a big chance for now, but we'll see it through. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49926	I thank the chairman. Article 106(1) has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you did not commit it, given that you did not chair while the speaker, in particular the MP Pavicevic, abused the Rules of Procedure and his parliamentary right to discuss, in no case in the manner in which the Rules of Procedure defines, but rather the opposite, which happens to him very often and what is tolerated to him, both of you and of the other chairmans, and also of the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, this degree of tolerance in no way decreases, it expands and expands all the time, so that these abuses take on dimensions that can no longer be tolerated. The question of MPs is not today, it can be used by the Rules of Procedure in a different way and in other terms. First, it's not Tuesday, it's not Thursday, it's Wednesday. If MP Pavicevic wanted to ask the government a question, he could have done so according to the Rules of Procedure, which he did not. Asking questions that relate to something that has nothing to do with the agenda point, such as spending money, such as government support, etc., the Honorable Chairman, that is not the point of the agenda. Thus, at no point in his discussion, no one even warned him to return to the agenda and to follow the session properly, regardless of what the honourable minister answered to questions exclusively in the interest of protecting the government, but such marketing as is being conducted by the opposition in order to use this assembly for political propaganda indeed in the harshest sense of the words represents a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is the least we can say. Therefore, I ask that the future behaviour of the opposition, especially the MP Pavicevic, should not be tolerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49927	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. I have to explain. So, the distinguished professor would disagree with you if I were like the chairman of a tolerance to him, even though I am. Another thing, as I said before, Mr. Honorable Professor is very well prepared for the session, but unfortunately, it must leave it to another, so it remains only the EPP. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49928	Every week or almost every week we give Mr. Pavicevic and his partners a chance to beat us. Every week or almost every week there are some elections in the Republic of Serbia, from the councils of the local community and beyond. Every or almost every week is an opportunity for this mobing that we are exposed to, unfortunately, at the meetings of Mr. Pavicevic's National Assembly to pass it on to the field, so that it can run once, even for the president of the home council of the building it lives in, so that it gets us, in just the same way and so maestrally, as far as we are, in this room, it fills some data that absolutely have no basis in reality. Almost every week, and here I will remind Mr Pavicevic, but also you other MPs and MPs, that there was a choice for MZ Baki Monoštor advice in Sombor municipality. First, it didn't even show up and secondly, and when it does, it disastrously loses that recycled policy of Zoran Zivkovic and the former regime. He had a chance and now on Sunday, February 14th, the municipality of Kula, I don't know if Mr Pavicevic and he knows where it is, MZ Kruščić, there and in one mixed environment, and I think that the mixed middle is the value of our state, where 31% of Serbs, 32% of Montenegrins and 37% of Hungarians, Ukrainians, Russian and Croats live. In both this and that environment, the list led by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic also won the 11-0 score by Mr Pavicevic and Mr Pajtic and beat up such a policy that, I believe, by the end of April will go into political history.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49929	Time. Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. You have the right to reply, Mr. Pavicevic, just wait, since I already told Mihajlovic he has a word. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49930	The chairman, respected minister and associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, so it is understandable that the opposition's representative is trying to find reasons for his marketing, to challenge the proposed law, to find faults, to criticise, etc. It's all fine, and nobody needs to get hurt, to be angry about it, etc. However, from day to day, we have the theatre of some MPs, including Mr Pavicevic, who crosses the limits of taste and the fine and appropriate conduct of a national MP. This is more about having a wide audience party and trying to get some ratings through cheap political points. It is said that the government's alleged incompetence, when we talk about laws that are from the environment, the Law on cattle farming, etc., is about resignations, alleged resignations from the prime minister, and then the ministers that she came to parliament to defend the laws, when she should resign, etc. It really doesn't make any sense, and it's already not her, so to speak, fit and one fine, beautiful, parliamentary struggle that is understandable and that should be a character to the opposition. But it really crosses the limits of taste. As for the SPS, we never acted that way when we were opposition, we were a constructive opposition, which I recommend that Mr Pavicevic do, it will pay him more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49931	Time. Thank you. Replica, MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, for mentioning the name and last name. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49932	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the two notes I wish to make in the replica to the distinguished Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, and then to Mr Jovanovic, Mihajlovic and Babić. First, I was resented because I said it was a bad government and that Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic should be here and said he is a member of a bad government. Gentlemen, I just wanted to announce here what those were the words of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, who announced several weeks ago that he was going to an extraordinary parliamentary election in parliamentary democracy. Extraordinary parliamentary elections are under way when the government loses support for the majority in the Assembly and then, on the basis of Article 132. The constitution, the Prime Minister, can resign to the National Assembly, the National Assembly resigns, the new prime minister cannot be elected, and, gentlemen, it is going to an extraordinary parliamentary election. So, we're dealing with a bad government that couldn't last until the end of its term, but half of the mandate is being resigned here and then going to an extraordinary parliamentary election. Is that not an argument on our part, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic and Mr Jovanovic, Mihajlovic and Babiæ? Secondly, I think it was appropriate for Mr. Mihajlovic, Mr. Jovanovic and Mr. Babic to commend a terrible commitment to us, the MPs of the opposition, and mine, instead of trying to caricate my actions in our National Assembly. Is there a more active MP here in this council than I am? Is there anyone who has prepared his speeches by strictly sticking to what is the system of ideas, beliefs, values, and opinions he advocates? I believe, gentlemen, that such an act deserves respect, not a cartoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49933	Time. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Grandmother, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49934	The bad government is the government that gave the city 5,400,000 dinars to set up underground waste separation containers, and then called from Subotica and said – so we don't have trucks to empty those underground containers. The bad government is the government that gave for the re-cultivation of the devastated and greening of uncultivated areas in the territory of the city of Subotica 49,500,000 dinars, although numerous shortcomings were observed, there are no public procurements, construction works were not hired or supervised, but it was important that for these works the employees of Ivana and Modesti Dulic, "DG Companies". The bad government is the government that allocated 20 million dinars to the town of Novi Sad on 5 April 2012, the technical government of the DS, to build and equip terminals for solar charging of electric bicycles. This contract has been signed, but the city of Novi Sad has never realised this procurement. The bad government has allocated eight million dinars to the Ilandz company at the Alibunar fund, and these eight million dinars were designed to landscape the area of the lake, and for this landscape of the area on the lake, behold, the job has been obtained by the Vinastra winery. Since when do wineries, besides receiving subsidies for raising vineyards, also work to landscape the area around the lake?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49935	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49936	Now, that's a bad government, but it's not the government of Alexander Vukic. The government of Aleksandra Vukic stopped things like this, brought this back to the beginning, and the bad government that did this was the government supported by Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49937	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49938	Of course, the replica. Noting that it was reportedly the mistake of large positioning parties, which, for God's sake, we do not laud ourselves gratefully in relation to some commitment of the MPs who debate as is done today by counterpart Pavicevic. This dedication, if it were true dedication, would not be rhetorically directed in the way it is today directed, which is also demagogue with political marketing. We don't care if New Serbia has nine, ten, fifteen or twenty-five percent. Are we interested in whether Serbian citizens will live better or not? Will the standard of Serbian citizens improve or not? That is why we will show our gratitude to those who are committed to achieving such a standard, both to you and to the Prime Minister and to all the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we're going to talk about the agenda, then we should have done it 15 minutes ago, not had a debate through polemics, through replicas, through answers to unfounded calls and based on what's important and what's needed for citizens. That commitment to law is a proof of many facts that Pavicevic can't dispute either. It was you and your ministry in Užica that enabled Užice as a local self-government to finally solve the issue and water supply and municipal waste and many things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49939	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49940	I'm sorry, just one more sentence. A lot of local self-governments got that from you, too, from the government. Whether they could recognize it or not, it's on local self-government, but the government made it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49941	Mr. Pavicevic, since you've been given the skills of your colleagues to mention your name and name, you've also been given the right to a replica. Even with Mr Jovanovic, the party was wrongly mentioned, I must say that because of New Serbia, the New Party, and not New Serbia. You have the right to a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49942	Dear ladies and gentlemen, a few notes I would like to make known to the esteemed Mr Jovanovic and Babić with, say, one respect to Mr Mihajlovic and Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, one thanks for accepting my argument, did not participate later in our debate. Dear gentlemen, when a national MP announced here that we should not debate, that we should not debate, that in the National Assembly, Mr Jovanovic, we should not conduct dialogue, then that MP, the honourable gentlemen, strikes the pillars of democracy. Because what's our National Assembly doing, gentlemen, if not for dialogue, for debate, for controversy, for dealing with different arguments about different attitudes? Well, we don't have here, and it's a good thing we don't have, and we don't all advocate an identical system of ideas, trust the value of thinking, but we advocate different systems. How can we declare these differences, gentlemen, if Mr. Jovanovic has no dialogue and no debate? That's the first thing I wanted to say. It's another thing. My argument that we are dealing with one bad government was summed up in the statement of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, who, in half of the term of office of that government, said we are going to an extraordinary parliamentary election...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49943	Mr. Pavicevic, you are not now replicating the Prime Minister, but Mr. Jovanovic, Mr. Babic, so focus.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49944	This was Mr. Jovanovic. Now, Mr. Babic. Mr. Babic is this. Because, watch out, in modern parliamentary democracies, when a government ceases its mandate if not at the end of the term of office for four years. Then when he loses his trust, when there's no record of respected gentlemen. For me, this whole debate, here's what we're running, is a signal that, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, my argument was good. This is a bad government, and you're a member of a bad government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49945	Time. We have replicas. Since you challenged Mr Pavic's replica, Mr Jovanovic and Mr Babic can now mention your name. You won't get it again, because I have to close up at some point round the replicas. So now that you have caused the replica, Mr Jovanovic and Mr Babic and the minister will receive the replica, and we will return to the agenda afterwards. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: How about I try to get back to you? You can't, Mr. Pavicevic. Here's a word from MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49946	Since someone here in this room is always waving the Constitution, it's kind of time to read it after two years. Well, to read the Constitution and see that the Constitution provides for the government to cease its mandate when the President of the Republic disbands the National Assembly. Disband the National Assembly, and as for the trust of the Government of Alexander Vukic here in parliament? It counts as more than 200 MPs, but that's less. The most important thing is trust with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this dialogue most often led to a point in the past two years, about a point, about a point, and when we get to the parentheses, so I think we've achieved a civilization step, because that's much better than talking about the amendments "get deleted". This government of the Republic of Serbia fought for results and struggled for results. I see someone who talked about the point and got stuck in fact right now is a problem that we're going to the election. The most beautiful is tucked up in the National Assembly, two MPs, a dozen MPs, excellently, they would talk for the next two years about the point and the comma and things like that. It needs to be brought before the citizens of Serbia. I need you to come out with the results. You need to go out with politics. We go out with both results and politics. You only go out with one sentence, we hate Alexander Wolfie. Oh, great, do it, come out as well as the Backy Monostor. Go out as in these other local communities where we went to the elections, so you see what people in Serbia will say about, whether they will seek results, whether they will seek a step in both European integrations and in one better public finances and in more jobs and in reducing the unemployment rate, and in everything that the Government of Aleksandra Vukic has achieved or yours and some others whose only goal and only policy – we hate Alexander Vukic, we stop Serbia, we return to the old policy of combinations, personal wealth, political elites. Well, there's something like that in Vojvodina a little bit more and it's called the Bojan Pitiæ regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49947	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go. You'll get right, Mr. Nikolic, but you have to wait for the previous replicas to end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49948	I thank the chairman. I apologize to the members of New Serbia, given that it was a lapus, it is, of course, the New Party to which MP Pavicevic belongs. Speaking of democracy and fundamental postulates, democracy is not controversial and that is what the SPS MPs cherish as something sacred in this sanctuary of democracy, which is respecting diversity, dialogue and through dialogue acceptance and diversity, but in no way demagogy. Demagogy was here – why after all the elections. Well, that's exactly the cry for choice that's been going on since the opposition. We want the election all the time, and it's been laminated up to about 15, 20 days, maybe a little bit more. Now suddenly the question is asked – and why? Well, then why did you ask for those elections if the demagogue question is now being asked – why. I don't know which column the New Party will join, one, the other or the third, whether these columns will be joined or not, but I hope they will join in this status as many of the next elections are now until they slowly disappear from Serbia's political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49949	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49950	Asking what kind of government I'm a member of. The government whose member I am is a great government. A government that has results. The government that is ready to discuss the results talks with MPs and citizens. I came here today with my associates to discuss the results from the area of agriculture, the environment. I've prepared extensive materials, data, charts. I expected the MPs to be involved in considering what we suggested. To help us have even better suggestions. I did not expect serious questions for the citizens of Serbia, for their health. The environmental issues are issues of our citizens' health security. That these issues are politicised and that our MPs in the context of these issues are asking questions of pure promotion, politics, issues of printing mistakes. I'm just expecting a completely different approach. You know, I have to say again there are those who don't like to hear it, but really we as ministers have taken on a very large burden of inherited problems, inherited obligations, and we've done this job with maximum responsibility, professionally, correctly. We've been trying really hard to do it in these two years as much as possible, and you know that we've faced issues that have been opened over the past period, and you know, you're mentioning today both the Green Fund and environmental regulation, and you don't remember unresolved issues and problems that you haven't even tried, and sometimes you've tried to solve, so we've left it to finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49951	Thank you. Mr. Nikolic, do you want a replica? (Dejan Nikolic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49952	Well, I don't know where those ministers were from 2008 to 2012. I really don't want to replicate with you. I think Mr. Babic mentions Vojvodina, Bojan Pajtic, so I'm reporting in that context. Have you read Steria's "Lying and Paralyzing"? Interesting comedy, if she hates you reading a book, you have a movie and a play at the National Theatre. Oh, man, you've been in power for four years. Scientists are on their way to find a new planet, and the Democratic Party is still to blame for everything. It's all running. It's just that the SNS isn't responsible for anything. It wants the official cars and darkened glass to lose little perception of reality or state in Serbia. The dark, in your opinion, was outsmarted over Serbia by 2012, and then by winning SNS, the sun lit up Serbia, the economic boom happened, even flowers smell better. You have not made any products, you have not created any values. You took everything from the citizens, you raised all taxes, you collected electricity, she bought food, you took pensions from the pensioners, you took salaries from the employees. There isn't any, Mr. Babice, no smelly flowers or anything good. The wasteland remains after you. It will be very vivid for the citizens of April of the month to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49953	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49954	Someone complains about the increase in electricity, and I will remind you, as well as all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that while the Democratic Party led this country, electricity prices have increased 600 times. I'm sorry, 600%. Six hundred percent has increased the current that you, Mr. Nikolic, have voted for. Six hundred percent. On the other hand, when you talk about these dark cars, with darkened windows, which car is Bojan Pajtic driving in? I'm a few days ago, driving my car 11 years old and I've never had an official car, like you don't cheat on the public, you don't have an official car, none of the MPs have an official car, and who do you cheat on? But that's why I saw at Auto Command in the hours of Bojan Pajtic that he was probably going to lunch in a car with a rotation, as he was a few days ago, and he was photographed by people at lunch in Madera with independent journalists, representatives of the Association of Independent Journalists. I don't know, I didn't go to that show at the National Theatre, but I don't know which theater to play "Hetherland". The play "Hetherland" when you took 1,200,000 euros from children distracted by development, when you also put that pain into your pockets, in Maldives, in Brione and in I don't know what kind of resorts, and you left those families and these children without a roof over your head. I don't think anyone's going to turn that into a theater show, but to a court epilogue, yes, definitely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49955	Thank you. Now I'm gonna have to take a break, because otherwise I can't go back to the agenda. Mr. Nikolic, you have caused a replica and Mr. Babic is entitled to a replica and thus ends a circle of replicas. [[Dejan Nikolic, from the place: Another replica.]] I took a break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go, Professor Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49957	Dear colleagues and colleagues, well, we've heard an interesting fairy tale that I thought only the children would believe in, if they're possibly watching this broadcast, about someone's future victory in this election. But it's turned into half an hour or more, in one half-time, into some tumultuous state of this space that we can link to this environmental law. The problem of the environment is not the problem of a newer date, these are mainly problems that have arisen over 200 years of exclusive, scientific and technological development and the accompanying industrial revolution. At one point, the man thought that he was stronger than God and that he would be able to arrange and arrange nature the way it suits him. However, it is likely that God and nature are much stronger than we are and that they do not allow us to play with them so easily, which is the most difficult and strange thing, it will take many tens of years, perhaps even centuries to bring this situation back to normal. The most common environmental problems of today are air pollution, groundwater and groundwater land, industrial raw materials processing products, as well as industrial production products which have expired. The pollution of land in regions where an industrial revolution has arisen in Europe is such that underground waters can only be used with serious and expensive processing, and the deadline for self-regeneration of the sub-stits is estimated for centuries. I've recently been to Black Grass, which is a pietomous and beautiful place, which I thought was protected from all these evils. However, I have seen at this time several sources that say that it is not drinking water. We've even managed to destroy places like that. Now, all around us, it seems to me that colleague Lazic was talking about it, we're dealing with a situation where every step of the way is garbage, a variety of waste that we're not even trying to solve in one normal and human way. Recently, I attended an international congress, where counterpart Zarija Bulatovic had an interesting exhibition on waste destruction with a plasma-gasification system of waste matter, as he said. I'll try in short lines to say what he's proposing. He says: “The solution to this Gordi node lies in moderation, the production of small mobile facilities that can meet the needs of small settlements of 30 to 50,000 inhabitants who can modularly connect and move as needed. Such a facility can be packed together with accompanying aggregates, waste mills, plant power generators, refrigerators, etc., into one standard container. The ease of transporting standard containers and almost everywhere available transport infrastructure enables almost instantaneous response to the need to remove unwanted materials wherever necessary." I'm going to be free, since that's what Mrs. Minister suggested, that each of us could come or propose to someone to join the ministry, so I'm going to suggest to Mr. Zari, with this project of his to appear in the ministry and I believe that this project will come to life. In the presentation of my colleague Blazic, I heard something I keep talking about. We don't have to blindly respect every EU directive and we don't have to do it all at once. I was in Strasbourg in the European Parliament and there I remembered well when one of the speakers said – you do not do what you do for the EU, but you should do it for your country and your inhabitants. So we too must behave in this and on all other occasions related to the protection of the environment. Everything we do, we need to do in the interest of our citizens and our country. Normally, we had problems. There were those who were in responsible positions. They didn't behave the way they asked them to, and they got us into a situation like today. I hope that, in the future, we will manage to overcome these problems with common forces and that we will really make Serbia a beautiful country, a clean country, the way it should be and what its citizens deserve. As for changing the laws relating to livestock, it is evident that livestock farming is the main branch of Serbia's agriculture. Did we behave in that area as required of us? I don't think so. So 80% of agricultural holdings have at least one line of livestock. There is least represented livestock, because it was represented through these state-owned companies and combinations, and all of these other species had agricultural holdings. What's the big problem with livestock? The big problem is that the low degree of education of farmers and that the age structure is very unfavourable. I think the ministry, or government and country in general, must find a way to bring people back to the country, how to enable them to do this job and how to benefit everyone from that job. My colleague Risticevic, and I think another colleague, said the big problem is that there are few cattle in Serbia. I don't agree with them. I think Serbia's problem was that there were many cattle, which the cattle took important and important places and made decisions that ruined Serbia and livestock farming in Serbia, or agriculture. It doesn't apply to this government, not to the previous government, not to the people of five or three years ago, it's gone much further into the past, and they've done a lot wrong for both our agriculture and our country in general. One of the examples that really bothers me, something I read in the paper, and as someone who's been in education for a long time, I'm mostly trying not to believe the newspapers, the Internet, etc., usually looking for those data on the other side, but I recently read in one daily paper that Serbia ate 20,000 tons of meat waste. It was animal meat, it was beef, meat from imports that came, unquality, without certain control. From all of this, when we talk about the problem of livestock stock and livestock, I can say again that Serbia was suffering from a lot of cattle that decided on its future, its development and brought us into this situation. I hope that never again in the papers or in life will this news appear that someone has imported 20,000 tonnes, namely that Serbia and its citizens have eaten 20,000 tonnes of broken meat. Not just in this area, in every area, we have to make every effort together to prevent something like this from happening in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49958	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49959	Thank you. I just want to make a brief review of the information you read in the paper and that you've told us, and I know that information. For the sake of the public, I want to say that it is absolutely not true that Serbia imported meat that is not healthy. Therefore, all meat, all consignments arriving from abroad are controlled, subject to control from the moment of entry, i.e. crossing customs, to the end-user who further places that meat on the market either as fresh or as processed. Mostly during the previous period, the maximum percentage of imported meat has been processed into various types of meat products, processing, etc. In doing so, you should know and the public should know, veterinary inspectors control health care. So, health security, which is confirmed by appropriate documentation, the appropriate certificates, is absolutely enough that we can go to the public and say that meat is safe. What has been said and what has often caused confusion in the public and doubts concerns quality, i.e. the content of certain valuable nutrients in certain pieces of meat that are further processed into processing. In that context, we went out to meet the public, so we changed the rulebook, a rule that now implies higher standards when it comes to quality. In doing so, once again, health care has never been questioned. Change of the rules in the direction of quality means the content of calcium in meat, i.e. in those products used for processing. By the time the regulations were changed, the level was 0.15% calcium. We've changed the rule, and now calcium levels are allowed in the meat of 0,10%. I should also say that this calcium is not due to what is often thought in public, that simple bones are grinding to obtain a certain mass that is further processed with the additions of various preservatives and various aromatic matter, in order to obtain some meat product. So the calcium content in the meat is due to the technology used to separate meat tissue, fat tissue from bone. If the separation technology is applied, the high pressure used to separate meat, fat, etc., skin tissue, then the calcium content is higher than it is now allowed. So our meat industry adapts to new requirements, introduces technologies that will apply lower pressure to separate meat, or fat tissue from bones, and thus we will meet that standard. So, for the sake of truth, for the sake of the public, all the meat that is in legal flows, and the state of Serbia is trying to keep everything legal, we are working successfully to contain gray zones, all flesh has been and will be healthy. Our inspection services, our controls are absolutely credible. Controls are carried out according to methods that are consistent with EU methods and therefore you can be absolutely sure that certain news articles are not entirely accurate, do not respond to reality, because it is not good and it is not good for citizens to think that anything is being processed and that they are getting bad products, not health care. That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49960	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow citizens, we are discussing a set of these laws for the seventh hour. What's interesting, what's characteristic of all the debates in this assembly hall is that the majority of the assembly strongly supports the proposals of the laws coming from the government, and we from the opposition are trying not to criticise the mere criticism, but to try constructively to contribute to the quality laws that should be dealt with and to regulate life in the country of Serbia. My colleagues Marinkovic, Karic, Mrs Comic spoke enough about these laws. Since I have very little time, I will look back at the findings of the parliamentary majority and the minister's lady that, since 2012, a lot has been done so far to quality and raise better conditions for the maintenance of the environment. I don't think that's true. Since you are using the word regime, I will say that this regime has not not improved the environment in the Republic of Serbia since 2012, not that it has not remained at the same level since 2012, but has made it worse. I'll give you two examples. You promised that the environment would be much better when you came to power. In 2012, the condition that was on the Kopalnik is better only in the part of the ski centre and there is, every honour, the state has invested significant money and the Kopalnik is one of the better ski centres in the Balkans. As for infrastructure equipment, a mountain that has 4,000 registered beds on top, which has a weekend settlement of 2,500 houses and 1,000 apartments, still wastewater spills into the Kopalnica River and the river is popularly called "sniff". It's a disaster. We're talking about a national park. Your Ministry has done nothing to help the Rasko municipality, because it belongs to the local self-government to solve municipal equipment. How will local self-government that has 4,500 inhabitants solve the municipal equipment of the ski center of Kopalnik? Not at all. You have to give money, that money no one saw, neither did you separate, nor did you create a project to solve that big ski center, and here you boast about solving environmental problems. You solved the ecological problem of the dump in 2013 when it was closed, by changing the regulation, and by the scheme of aflatoxin resolution which was, if you remember, 0.05, and then 0.5, and 0.25, you moved the border by 5 meters, and that dump is still current. It's not a way to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49962	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49963	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to talk about the proposals of these laws, but first I would like to refer to the presentation of the previous speaker, the honourable MP who says that the situation in the environment and the ministry in particular, which has been in charge of protecting the environment, has been disastrously worsen since this authority led. I would just like to say that this government has a very difficult political heritage from the previous government, which was until 2012, and I will repeat once again that it is 2,000 problematic projects of the former fund worth around 100,000 euros. It's a missed investment, it's an approved money no one's been tracking, so you don't know where he ended up, it can't be determined where he ended up because no one's been tracking that money, it's just that money has been approved and nothing else. We have 20 problem infrastructure projects in the area of the environment, which are funded by the EU and which have been stopped, the financing of infrastructure is concerned. This government, this Ministry and environmental protection have exactly 80% of these problems solved, in just two years. The health of citizens has been destroyed by the dangerous waste of tycoon dumps, as no one has been allowed to tell these people that they are destroying the lives and health of their fellow citizens. I would have talked for a long time, but I just wanted to say, of course, I'm just beginning to, that Serbia is in no sense in the historical legislation of other countries, especially for EU countries, and that is why I want to point out that in 1991 the first Law on the Protection of the Environment was passed. What is very important is that the law was in force until 2004 with some changes and supplements and could be said to have been in line at the time. It is very important to note, today I heard on the Committee, that in 1992 our country was the first among the countries of the former Yugoslavia to introduce an environmental impact assessment. That's fantastic. It's still being applied today, pretty much in the same form as it was back then. In 2004, in this respect, there was a alignment with EU law. In addition to the Environmental Protection Act and this already existing environmental impact assessment, what we insist on today is what we are insisting on today, and this is public participation in decision-making and this law is passed which is valid, I mean, of course, with changes, the Law on Integrated Prevention of pollution and environmental control. These are the meanings of these facilities that are subject to IPPC permits. This is a very important year. It's 2009. It is a year when all those who signed the list of speakers today against these amendments and the addition of the laws, when they passed, and that is for every commendation, a whole set of laws, 16 laws, from the field of environmental protection with the aim of harmonising and transposing EU law, and then there was the Environmental Protection Fund, which was independent, we heard that money was being wasted, and what was going on? The European Commission sees that money from this fund is inadequately spent, sees that there is no implementation of these regulations and gives red light in terms of implementation and protection of the environment. So these were very difficult attempts to adapt the laws to the real state in Serbia, compliance with the laws then was 80% and implementation below 20%. I agree with my colleague, Dr Blazic, who said we should not rush 100 per cent and follow EU regulations and regulations unless we are able, primarily financially, to implement them into reality. That's why it happens to us that we have to change laws, and in principle, in a legislative sense, we don't cough, we cough in implementation because our financial problems are big. What this government has done is it has passed an analytical review of the compliance of EU domestic rules with the rules of 2014 in Brussels when screening was carried out and when we finally got that green light to have good negotiating positions. Afterwards, more detailed documents were requested, so in June 2015, this government, namely this Ministry of Environmental Protection, sent a post-screening document detailing both the deadlines for transposition of EU rules and the deadlines for implementation of these regulations. This post-screening document will just be the basis for the negotiating positions, and we all hope that by the end of this year a chapter will be open. Then how can we say that this government and this ministry, this government headed by Alexander Vukic and this ministry that is now joined together with agriculture, that all these people who do their best have done nothing for this year when we are approaching the opening of Chapter 27 that is very serious. On the issue of demands, it makes one-third of Serbia's obligations to both legislation and monetary terms. I would refer briefly to the Environmental Protection Act. We have already said that the amendments to this law and all these three laws relating to environmental protection are, above all, an alignment with EU rules, and then the harmonisation with environmental directives, especially land in the use of mud, this is interesting, so it refers to the reuse of sewage mud and the delay that lagging behind after the treatment of waste water in a way that does not endanger the environment. Then, compliance with the EMAS 3 regulation that implies Serbia's inclusion as an EU non-member in a certified environmental management system. There is also a directive on the availability and the public of the information we coordinate with, and we have already mentioned it. It is very important because eco-registries will be introduced on environmental information where every citizen will be made available by a single click on the Internet, and I believe it will be in the media. Then, compliance with the directive on public participation. We have already mentioned that it has been before, and is now strongly insisting on public participation in the development of certain plans and programmes, especially those related to the protection of air quality, water, waste management and noise protection, as well as the directive on the protection of wild flora and fauna, which will also be insisted through the Nature Protection Act. What is very important in amending this law is the establishment of a green fund as a budget line in accordance with the Budgetary System Act. I would look back a little bit like my previous colleagues on why the Environment Fund was abolished in 2012. I have already said, the European Commission, if we are not objective already, the European Commission has definitely given the red light, has withdrawn all funds from the EU funds and has no longer given to Serbia, or the authorities that were led by the DS to receive funds from the EU. So they estimate that money is being spent irregularly, that there's no money tracking and that's what needs to be stopped. The fact is that what is now being introduced and we all agreed that it is not the happiest solution, but there must be a necessary stable funding system due to high requirements and the cost of implementing European regulations, as well as costs estimated at 11.5 billion. It is a huge sum for our country and we will certainly have to have such a fund in which, in addition to filling the fund with the principle of pay users, i.e. a pay polluter, this fund will be filled with meanings through EU funds, donations, gifts and in all ways prescribed by law. What is very important is that from now on this fund will be extremely transparent and that the ministry will be managed by these finances through a public call. So here, the funds of this fund will be co-financed by IPA projects and, as I said, there was no monitoring of projects, so now this government and this ministry have a need to deal with 2,000 items that lacked transparency in spending money. So from now on, the entire ministry sector will deal with and monitor an analysis of the realisation of these funds. What is very important today is that participants in the green chair also asked for a regular report on how this budget money is spent. Of course, instructions for local self-government are being prepared, so those with their green dinar, so what they got from environmental protection benefits will simply have regulations where that money should be invested, so that money does not go into infrastructure that is not in the interest of environmental protection. Then there are alignments with other laws and regulations, and we have heard of it today. What I would like to point out is especially better surveillance and more severe penalties. Unfortunately, in the application of environmental protection, penalties are very often high and are a prevention of something happening. There are two other laws, and I will also try to be summary as much as possible, even though these are very extensive and significant laws. So the Waste Management Act is very important and long-awaited. Since 2003, the area has been tried to settle and bring order. This is also the harmonisation of the rules with the EU and the effects will be on the development of the economy, the opening of new businesses, the strengthening of market competitiveness and what is important, will ensure the continued work of all facilities that are subject to IPS permits, i.e. for the issue of integrated licences. The most significant changes are that the mandatory waste hierarchy is introduced, the strengthening of recycling and the reuse of waste, then the obligation to select waste and the treatment of biowaste, as well as the provision of energy efficiency, of course in this waste management system. What is expected is that the amendments to this law will just lead to the strengthening of the circulatory green economy system, which is of great importance. It will therefore withdraw a large number of new jobs. I read somewhere that even in the next two years, only due to the adequate application of this law and waste management could more than 5,000 jobs be opened by 2019, this is estimated at around 8,000. It's really for every commendation, so this should really be strictly applied. What I'd like to mention is that the suspension of waste and by-product status is being introduced, so the waste gets the status of goods, and thus its treatment gets commercial value. I've already talked about IPS licenses, and then the precise relationship between participants in treatment and waste traffic, and from now on they'll insist on transparency and efficiency, the grey economy will be reduced, there won't be any more wild dumps that someone of their own interest will be making, and then from the state they'll be taking money to get rid of such dumps. From now on, the polluter pays for it to build a dump, an illegal dump, a wild dump it will pay for its removal. The state no longer has the money for it, because for a ton of waste waste it takes twice as much money to get rid of that waste. This is about amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, and we have amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. I've already mentioned some things. We mentioned this law, or we expected to pass this law quickly when we talked about the National Parks Act. Why is he important? And then we mentioned, we have about 6.5% protected areas and we're going to at least double to start, because we represent a very biodiversity-rich country and in every sense we're sure that we have potential, that we have 12% protected areas. The preservation of natural values is one of the priorities of this law and of course the policies of this government. There is also a more precise definition of individual expressions, alignment with European Union provisions, conservation of habitats and species of national and international importance. Then, what is very important is introduced – the concept of a geopark. It will be a defined area within which to protect, improve, present, promote, objects of geo-inheritance which, thank God, Serbia has in abundance. This law also provides that the Ministry will regularly inform the public of the procedure for the launch of the protection of one area and the protection of the first, second or third degree and that it will go public, so that citizens will certainly be informed of what is under what degree of protection, which, of course, has its consequences. The financing of the protected area will be made from the funds of this Green Fund to be formed. The provisions of the CITES Convention on international transport of endangered species of wild flora and fauna are then harmonised, and this is highly insisting on preventing both the holding and internal trade and cross-border traffic of species, particularly wild flora and fauna. In all three laws, the sanctions are extremely sharpened, and I hope that this is exactly what will lead to serious application. What I would say is, this government definitely had a very difficult inherited situation in this area, but it does have good results. I will repeat again - success in opening the negotiating chapter, which, once again, we expect by the end of this year, as it should be noted that Serbia received praise from the energy community when a national plan for reducing greenhouse gas emissions was adopted. Also, many laws have been passed. If I'm not mistaken, this is 10 laws today, and the minister mentioned it, or we've adopted it by now, but in any case, it's a big step towards harmonising our rules with EU rules, so in that sense we're doing our job very well. So, once again, the Green Fund will be established. It is not the happiest solution, but certainly, as one ministry representative said, it is a good call from which I hope it will be a good fruit and I hope that we will really fill it from the EU funds, most of all, since I am not sure it can't. Then, infrastructure projects are currently being implemented, funds are worth over 100,000 euros, employment is expected and everything else, and in this sense all praises to both the Ministry and environmental protection, and I thank you for all their presence, whenever my city, the town of Užice, had problems, especially the Secretary of State Stan, who was always there when we had problems and when we had problems, and when we were nice, of course, to come up with new projects. I thank you and just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49964	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49965	I simply do not want to remain in debt to the question referred here, to me on behalf of the parliamentary group, or MP Mr Bradic, and I want to answer, and for his sake, but also for the citizens of Raska and Kopalnik. It does not say that the ministry does not care enough about the national park, it does not say that it does not care about the environment of the citizens of this area. Simply, I want to say that the wastewater treatment plant in Raška will be built, that funds of sevenm euros are provided, that a tender has been launched and that we already have 40 interested companies from Serbia, but also from Europe. They have visited the location and to the satisfaction of all of us, and above all the citizens of Raska, Kopalnik, tourists who are staying on this mountain, this problem will be resolved very soon. So much for our information and so much for this ministry's commitment that in the given circumstances and in the given time, in the best possible way, it responds to the expectations of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49966	Thank you, Madam Minister. (Bladoje Bradic, from the place: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Braddick? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I was directly mentioned. ) Mr. Bradic, you know very well that Mrs. Minister referred to Mrs. Stojljkovic's exposure. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I was directly mentioned. ) After 20 minutes of Mrs Stojiljković, I cannot know what you said and whose presentation the minister has an explanation for, but you did not mention in any way, especially in a negative context, to give you the right to replication. You know that very well, Mr. Braddick. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49967	Thank you. I can't help but regret that we're wasting our time in a debate like this, but it's probably inevitable at this stage. So, since two topics are money, the minister, 10 billion is on principle – a pay polluter, paid into the 2015 and 2014 budget. That's your mandate. There were questions about that mandate. I'm not going to ask that, because I know he's going to be the responsible finance minister. And no matter how happy this spring ends, make sure that we report on how legally it was managed. What was good is that these reports were and we weren't looking for them, and there weren't, like we don't have reports of air control, like we don't have reports in this year, or sessions with a lot of work reports. If what I'm saying is not a common motive for us to conduct discussions by talking about the subject and watching what we're talking about, then every debate will turn into a dialogue – embarrassing and useful, which is what Hope Lazic's mother taught us all. This was indeed an imminent remark. I am not left with the hope that I will once sit in a session where we will all discuss truly equipped data on the subject we are talking about. It's gonna happen, too, probably. What I would like you to share, it's more with citizens than with me, is a job under the law that is also related to the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Protection of Nature, and to God and waste management, it's the issue of integrated permits, "IPPS" license. We had a problem with that. You know that we had a dilemma at a time when the law was changed, I was extremely against the deadlines that were changed. I understand that the Ministry cannot meet the demands and what would be good is that during this debate, it is, if it is, a good result of the government. So it's not a poem, it's a real number, because people don't know what integrated permits are, and they don't know what kind of trouble it is to do all this work, and it's by someone who's applying, and by the authorities in the ministries or in the local self-government that do it. This is a completely new area of “tera incognito” for many, and it is terribly important. It's terribly important because the polluter, or all of them, will have to have integrated permits by 2020, and now it's so important that you can tell people who might have information about what's polluting in their environment, maybe they don't. But if you can tell, we've given six, 16, 26 permits and that's a guarantee to say what's laughing and what's not allowed in the use of natural resources and in the return of everything that's damaged in nature in the previous state. Whoever it is, whether it's oil, whether it's a pig, whether it's a forester, whether it's a fisherman, whether anyone has anything to do with what's called environmental damage. Why do I think that's important? Because it will be more and more important, and as I would like the board president to do a special hearing with us about geoparks, so I would also like to make a special listen on integrated permits, because when it is not done, then from one good idea, of, I continue to dispute why six months, then six months, but it is irrelevant, the decision is made and the decision has to be implemented, but if we don't share information about it, then, from one good idea, you have more rumors and disputes than people if they get information that company, why and how it gets an integrated license, what is going to happen in 2019, 2020, 2021, then you have a dialogue to worry about the environment. Just to illustrate to you the famous rumors of whether Tennis will come to have a farm of millions of pigs in Banat or not, it is best to conduct a dialogue on what will be written to him in an integrated permit. So we protect the environment, we act under the Law on the Protection of the Environment, so we prevent damage that we cannot do in the management of waste, and thus we show people what the rule of law is, when what is written in the laws from word to word is applied to action. I've set an example. I don't think I'm going to argue about who's going to have a farm for industrial pig meat production, or not. And, finally, the Nature Protection Act that will be applied together with the laws on national parks and the Law on Forests and Other Laws, I wish I had the power and strength to talk again in this law about wind protection belts. There's no way out when it comes to wind protection belts. I've even talked to my colleagues about trying to pass a special law on windscreens, because now the space to plant things by the rules, objects that would be treated as possible for setting up, objects as land, I mean space, they're now out of all the laws, because they don't count in little woods, in big woods, in the woods, they don't count in roads, they don't count in a commitment where a shadow of wood comes in, can they or can't count in anything, they don't count in anything, and we need it. We're in terrible need of windscreens. It is a request, therefore, to talk about geoparks, that the ministry specifically informs about integrated permits, you don't have to tell me, anyone who deals with this, that we really collect in one place all those who don't understand what windscreens are all of us who understand and love, and that this mandate of the next government is marked that this job has been started and that we will watch it end. You know, there's an old wise saying that society really starts when people plant trees, and they know that in the shade of those trees they won't rest. The moment has not yet come to Serbia, perhaps the wind protection belts will be the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49968	I thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49969	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Ministers with Associates, I was a folk MP and when the first set of environmental laws and discussions I am listening to today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is largely and fully established to repeat already seen and famous discussions. And even then, no matter what was a step forward, in the normative part, we had a relatively regulated area. Regardless of the European Community's first regulations in the field of environmental protection in 1975 and in the meantime had six action programmes, it seems to me that only after 40 years Serbia is beginning to deal seriously with problems that are largely an obsession with the policies of the regulated states. Why is that? It's politics again. What did we get, and that's a political issue again, and basically for the lives of our citizens, what did we get by signing the Brussels Agreement, and yet it concerns the environment? The Serbian Renewal Movement supported the bravest step towards Europe, which Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the entire government in particular. We are, since you are a member of the SPS, a very respected minister, we may argue on some ideological issues, and we will certainly argue there until things come to their own, but on these issues that have no points of contact with the sure that we can agree to a large extent. Where were we in 1975, and where are we now? At that time, I was visiting, in the mid-80s, the countries of the eastern bloc of the former Soviet Union, and it was particularly worrying about the situation in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, where we saw huge chimneys from which smokes, excisers, etc., and today that picture is completely different when you just visually pass those countries, and when you read more about the state of environmental protection, then you see how much progress that is in all, even in that area. For what? I think the fundamental question is, we can talk, of course, which are the main objectives set by the European Community at the time, the current EU, the preservation, protection and improvement of the environment, the protection of human health, because, let's not forget, today, few people have talked about human health that is seriously disrupted by a number of factors that go to land, water, etc. There are many diseases, here only in Kragujevac, first of all, due to the high degree of air pollution, because of energy, which is one of the main environmental pollutants, often Mr. Žika Gojkovic talked about the famous somboro barium, etc., even around 10,000 children with pulmonary diseases. Now, if we were to put that aside from looking at the human side, and it is the scariest and the fates of people who have suffered from the carelessness of the environment, if we just mathematically calculated the costs of their treatment and the costs of investment in environmental protection, then of course you would overcome the philosophy that the prevention in the field of sanctions that these laws have increased, with education and a constant campaign that you as a resolute ministry must lead to raising the level of awareness of all citizens, I agree with Mr Blažić that education of your species must be represented in schools, but also local self-government must be in a constant campaign. Anyone who wishes to be maligned today can take hold of any area where there is a bad environmental situation and with a lot of arguments criticises your ministry. Your answer would be as the response of all the other ministers before you – we have found this state, we are not responsible for it, we have normally arranged everything. But what was the problem with a more saranative normative arrangement and a bad situation on the ground? First, what the regulations did not apply, then the regulations were violated and third that the awareness of citizens was not at an enviable level, as well as the work of competent inspection services. You normally edit all this through this law, but after voting these laws, we must now turn one new leaf, as the government in all segments of its operation has turned one completely new leaf and one totally new approach and it is visible at every step. It must be constantly monitored, constantly invested in the environmental protection system. Let's be completely open, we need it to just intervene in those most vulnerable areas of over 10 billion euros. Serbia doesn't have that money today. Serbia can, with what it has, direct money rationally, what this government is doing in all segments, and I would say even more rationally. Secondly, if we talk about water, it has been declared by the UN as the most important human resource of the 21st century. Without everything people can, but without air and without water and without quality land is an unimaginable and quality life. It seems to me, no matter what the situation in all of Serbia in that part is pretty bad, and what I did, while I wasn't getting ready for this and some of the other discussions that treated this area, I thought I had enough water to drink. But it's not like that. We do not have enough water to drink, no technical water, etc., and on problems of water regularity, groundwater, poor source control, especially wells in rural areas, and therefore the bad consequences for the health of the population can be long spoken of. What is the task, first of all, of local self-government? It seems to me that this should be one alarm, too, to first of all compete, since we are a candidate country to join the EU to get money to make quality projects and later to get money in front of EU accession funds with what little money we have in front of the EU funds present. It seems to me that we can make the first big step in protecting the environment after a few decades. We know that we do not have enough personnel or enough people trained to write quality projects in local self-government, and the EU is, not only today, but also today after so many decades of its existence, very generous as regards the allocation of money to protect the environment, because they know that this is a investment that is truly worth a lot of money. In the debate on details, we will plead closer on many of the issues that we have raised today, but in the Voting Day, SPO MPs for all the reasons I have raised to vote for all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49970	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49971	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reason for the amendments and additions to the laws that we are conducting today was due above all to legal gaps that have been observed, as well as to the need to comply with international legal acts, as well as EU regulations in the field of environmental protection. In this way, Serbia sets clear criteria and rules that must be met, both in protecting the environment and in preserving the natural wealth that Serbia, as a state, has. One of the basic objectives of these laws is to ensure environmental protection in line with the principle of sustainable development, to ensure the protection of natural resources and what is most important to ensure human health protection. It is known that about one third of the EU rules concern environmental protection and therefore it is necessary that as a country in the negotiation process, it has a clear intention for EU membership. It is our strategic interest, a strategic definition, to bring as much of our legislation as possible in line with EU rules. In this way, we will speed up the process of negotiations and be under way with constant changes in the field of environmental protection, which is the basic prerequisite for a successful accession strategy. For Serbia, regulation of environmental protection is of multiple importance. In the first place, it is the protection of the natural environment and the environment in which we live. A healthy and secure environment is a basic prerequisite for the development of the state, and we have much to say quite clearly and precisely is done in the term of this government and the mandate of you as Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, but we are aware that we are still having a lot of work to do in order to reach developed European countries. The amendments and additions to the laws that we're talking about today are, I'd say a certain qualitative shift, a safe step forward, a step further in that direction. Protecting the environment of the plant and animal world and protecting nature in the modern world are a huge developmental opportunity. More and more talk about the so-called green economy that represents the concept of economic development, which ensures the growth of business activities, which take into account the sustainability of wealth by re-use, already used resources, i.e. recycling and preservation of living space. The goal is to effectively manage resources, which is the basis for sustainable development and competitiveness of the economy. In this way, new jobs have already been said during today's debate, both domestic and foreign investors are attracted to the use of new knowledge and technology, and all of this, considering the contribution to further development. In particular, through changes and additions to the proposed laws, we in Serbia create conditions to create a functional and organised waste market, i.e. to achieve full capacity in the recycling sector. According to data available to us, i.e. according to the Serbian Association, the filling of the recycling plant is only 50%, as I would say seriously endangers their further development. Paper and glass recycling factories are forced to import waste from abroad at prices higher and up to 40% while both waste paper and glass are exported from Serbia, contributing to the outflow of foreign exchanges from Serbia, which is certainly not good or positive. At the same time, according to the latest data published by the Republic Statistics Institute, the difference between imported and exported waste decreased because awareness of the importance of waste material as a resource is growing slowly, but still significantly more exports than imports. Again, the types of waste that have the largest share in exports are metal iron waste, about 67.2%, and paper and cardboard waste 10.7%. In addition, it is important to point out that the recycling industry is the youngest industrial branch and I would say with certainty one of the most prospective. According to estimates, it employs about 2,000 people directly, and indirectly about 30,000 people of different profiles, different professions, which is precisely its greatest advantage. Of course, these changes and additions of the law will contribute to the increase of the number of employees, as data show only 15% recycling in Serbia while in the most developed countries the number is up to 50% waste. It is therefore important to support the development of a recycling and proper waste management system in line with this need to change the environmental financing system and step up work on projects in order to make use of the consciously available projects. The founding of the Fund, the Green Fund, according to this, is formed under the Law on the Budgetary System and has already been said about it, the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia is based on the funds obtained by the principle of wage polluter and this was the case during today's debate, which means that all legal persons under equal conditions that carry out business activity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will pay a certain fee. The founding of this fund stems from the fact that Chapter 27 is the environment, one of the most complex and I would say the most complicated for the negotiation process. The EU's approximation in this area requires significant infrastructure investments. At the same time, it has a direct impact on different sectors of the economy and society, which imposes a need for a clear, defined, national policy. Total costs were estimated at 11.5 billion euros in the period up to 2030. Investment costs 6.5 billion, and the rest are operational costs. Therefore, the establishment of the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia is established stable, a transparent system of funding for environmental protection is established and is also one of the major recommendations received by the European Commission during the screening for Chapter 27 which I believe was implemented in 2014. In addition, the Budgetary System Act provides for the establishment, operation, financing and commitments arising from the budget fund. Other different sources of funding are also foreseen in addition to the Fund. EU funds as EU grants, funding from financial institutions, domestic and other commercial banks, direct loans to projects, the republican budget, the local self-government budget as well as the AP Vojvodina budget. An efficient system of economic instruments should lead to incentives to reduce pollution, and the introduction of effective financial mechanisms, all of which should boost investment in the environment and provide safe sources of funding. Of great importance and raising the awareness of ordinary people. The inclusion of municipal companies in the packaging management system as well as enhanced supervision of inspection services. Finally, I would like to say that environmental protection affects directly what is essential to other sectors, agriculture, tourism and infrastructure. Of course, I will repeat what Honorable counterpart Miletic Mihajlovic said in the opening statement, in the voting day we will support legislative proposals as a parliamentary club on which the debate is being held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49972	Thank you. The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49973	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking today about a set of laws that we are simplisticing into so-called. environmental laws, we're actually opening up a discussion about a man, we're talking about a human species, about our civilization, about the need to take a critical look at what boundaries is so-called "the border." consumer society, a destructive, destructive impact on the overall ecosystem and has led us to the edge of self-destruction. The duration of the evolution of nature we know is measured for billions of years. The phenomenon of life with a dominant feature of self-production, development, expansion, perfection on our planet is one of the cardinal events that mark this long-lasting and fascinating way of developing everything we know. Over millions of years of interactions between the living and the living, through the system of selection, there has been a world to which we belong ourselves. At the top of this magnificent vertical life stands man, a mentally spiritual and creative being. On the meaning of life, the meaning of man's creation, as an intelligent being, through the millenniums of human civilization, many philosophical, scientific, artistic and theological discussions and theories have been written and spoken. In one way I agree, a human being with the ability to feel, observe, analyse, survive and investigate legality, determine the dimensions of events and things, is just designed for that function. That by giving meaning to everything, he's designing himself. It becomes a paradigm of mind and spirit in the universe, especially its dimension. Unfortunately, at one point the creature becomes greedy, prone to hedonism and uncontrolled consumption of natural resources. It becomes a destructive element of the natural balance created over the millenniums. By the effects of its operation, it becomes a negativity of itself and of all the living and unlively world, with so-called. The technological revolution in order to satisfy both the necessary and bizarre needs of the human species, a man briefly disrupts the balance in nature in order to ask the right question today - whether we should go on and live at all. We may never have asked such questions if we had not already felt the frightening consequences of such an egotistical and anthropcentric world view, especially natural resources, to make us available. In the center of the world, we actually put ourselves in the center of the world and it's like everything exists because of us and our needs. We cut ourselves off from a common cradle, a common root from which we came together with thousands and thousands of species of plants and animals, and the consequences are frightening – a sharp leap in the incidence of malignant diseases in human mortality, and should be taken into account that almost hundreds are, and thousands can be measured by carcinogenic factors actually a product of human labor. Then, the psychological disorientation, the sense of uncertainty, alienation and loneliness, natural disasters are becoming more and more common with the inconceivable consequences and sufferings of humans and plants and animals, climate change and so on. Nature is just warning us for now, giving us signals and teaching us, begging us to break up, stop in our pride, think and change ourselves and understand the world around us. And science and faith, it has been shown through almost all religions, through the past centuries taught us and inspired us to treat our mother, to treat nature with more respect and love. From this pearl of the universe, from this planet of earth, which magically decorates the inhabited one, we were given a beautiful piece. That piece of land is called Serbia. When we look at it from above, from a bird's perspective, we see beautiful and diverse areas, filled with all forms of life, and instead of being grateful to God on such gifts, we not only destroy that beauty but also show signs that we do not know for our own sake the gifts to use in the right way, for our own survival and economic development. So it's good to talk about laws like this today, laws that aim to limit us in pride, laws that need to teach us how to preserve and make our country better. I'd like to remind you of the terrifying floods of two years ago, we're still feeling the consequences of this event, this uncontrolled power of water, at the moment it showed both the face and the face of our natures and our habits, our irresponsibleness and our arrogant behavior. This water has brought us suffering and enormous material damage, but on the surface of the earth it has left incredible amounts of municipal and other waste, which we have uncontrollably dumped for years and decades back into forests, meadows, streams, rivers and lakes. For a smart nation, the event is a strong enough alarm to trade and take adequate measures. For safe and well-intentioned people, laws are not necessary, they always knew and knew that they kept that treasure of nature. Unfortunately, those irresponsible and unconscious need rules, norms, criminal policies. When we talk about municipal waste, that problem stands before us. Our strategic commitment to adopt the standards of developed countries of Europe is good and promising the very fact that the provisions of the proposed laws are in line with the ecological European standards is a benefit that we will only feel in future times. And today, as-so, in the city environments, that problem is solved. What I would point to is the rural expanse of our country on which, in this regard, we almost did nothing. People living in the rural area still do not have an adequate solution to the issue of the disposal of their waste. That's why we're witnessing ugly images, stockpiling wild dumps in forests, rivers, streams, lakes, by the roads. I see the solution in a few principles. First, the state is also obliged to offer these people an alternative. These people need to know exactly where to find a place where they can safely delay their municipal waste. They can also be containers, they can be streaming and intermittent dumps and there are a whole series of possible solutions. Secondly, a simple principle must be introduced and legalized that every owner of any property is personally responsible for the environmental order on it and around it, and that irresponsibility is subject to legal sanctions. The third principle is a harsh criminal policy, and I see that this is also foreseen by these bills. And, of course, fourthly, what I especially want to point out is prevention, and when we talk about prevention, first of all, I mean education, education and education of people, especially young generations. Environmental education and education lessons must be part of our education system. Such lessons should not only be theoretical, on the contrary, children would have to spend most of their teaching activities in nature, learn about it, love it, and care for it through direct and practical work. Therefore, children should be relieved of many unnecessary formulas, equations, definitions, and teach them how to learn. In 1972, the UN General Assembly declared June 5th the Environment Day. Since then, much has changed, the EU has also given a series of regulations and declarations for our relationship with the environment and ecosystem. I am aware of the fact that the laws that are before us today are part of our efforts, that we also agree in this area with modern and developed European countries, and I support these laws, and I hope that my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS Parliament Club will do so. We have shown love for the earth in many ways in history. We were killed and killed, almost exterminated, and offered terrible sacrifices to the idea of freedom. Let us, for a change, show our love for our Serbia small, simple, but useful works. Let's not throw waste anywhere or anywhere else tomorrow. Let's work on environmental ethics. Let's imagine one day, one morning in which all of us will pick up our own junk, clean our backyards outside our houses and apartments. That effort would take a few minutes for each individual. Millions of individuals would do wonders. On the same day, our country would be washed and nicer, and we would all be happier and happier people. I'm sure nature would return our health. In the end, we must not forget, we borrowed this land from our descendants. We have no right to destroy it anymore. If we really love these kids, then hopefully, we'll do what we have to do and what's gonna be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49974	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49975	The Honorable Chairman of Becic, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has presented several draft laws in the area of agriculture and environmental protection today. Since my colleagues Miletic Mihajlović and Djordje Milicevic spoke in detail about the proposals for legislation in the field of environmental protection, as well as those laws will be referred to by my fellow Member of Parliament Gordana Topic, I will, above all, refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming. The Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection has worked almost two years to obtain a quality legislative proposal. The proposed amendments and additions to the laws aim to improve the position and raise the level of competition of producers. The proposed amendments define more precisely the competences of the livestock subjects and the conditions to be met by the breeding programmes. New legal solutions protect the breeding of indigenous races of domestic animals. The obligation to keep registers of indigenous breeders is introduced, which should allow for more precise records, protection of domestic races, preservation and sustainable use, as well as an increase in the number of conditions. Through a report by breeding organisations and on the basis of information from other livestock subjects, the ministry will have more precise information on the quality of domestic animals and their production properties. This will contribute to the creation of agrarian policy in the field of livestock, as well as to the control of the application of the law. Dear MPs, agricultural activity is one of the most important economic activities in Serbia. Serbia has very favourable natural conditions, land and climate and various agricultural production, both plant and livestock, experienced producers, top experts and scientific workers. The fact is that livestock farming in Serbia is largely impoverished and that the ministry has tasked itself to preserve what it now has and to gradually increase the livestock fund. In the structure of the generated value of agricultural production, 70% originates from plant production, 30% from livestock production. For comparisons, 70 % of the value of agriculture is derived from livestock production in the EU and 30 % from plant production. In the structure of agricultural production, livestock production should play a dominant role. However, the livestock fund in Serbia has been decreasing by 2-3% per year in recent decades. Over the past 20 years, not only the number of cattle has been replaced, but also the consumption of meat and milk. The number of cattle, as you stated in the reasoning of the Bills, between 2007 and 2013, was reduced by almost 200,000 and 17%, respectively. The number of infertile throats in the same period decreased by 25%, the total number of pigs by over 850,000 or 20%, the number of infertile throats by about 80%. All of this resulted in a reduction in beef production by 30% over the last five years, while milk production decreased by 3-4% in the same period. The production of pigmeat in 2013 compared to 2007 decreased by slightly less than 14%. Fortunately, in the last year, the decline trend stopped. We have set out for the stabilisation and growth of the livestock fund, which is also the result of the good promotional measures taken in the previous two years by the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Serbia's stock fund also suffered from the disappearance of large enterprises on social agricultural goods in the privatisation process. It was important for the new owners to get rid of workers as soon as possible, and they were not aware that cattle farming was a work that required the engagement of 365 days and nights and that without people, there was no livestock. In addition, demographic devastation must also be taken into account of the village in Serbia, as the village, as well as the farms, is worth the rule that there is no livestock growing without people. When negative trends were stopped and the potential of this strategic economic branch activated, the ministry adopted the concept of a gradual increase in the production and export of agricultural and food products under the long-term national agricultural production plan. The situation in livestock is difficult, but we need to know that there is no solution overnight. It takes a longer period of recovery and growth. In Serbia, at the moment, three hectares are coming for one throat, and to make more money from agriculture, the relationship needs to be one to one. This means that livestock farming should occupy at least 60% of agricultural production, which is the goal of the state. The competent ministry is doing its best to restore livestock production. It is also important that cattlemen increase productivity, but it is not enough just to increase the number of throats, but also to take care of the quality of meat and milk. Our producers must know that only extra-quality milk can be sold in the EU. We now have only 35% of that kind of milk. Dear People's MPs, exports are one of the main priorities for increasing livestock production. For years, Serbia has an approved contingent on EU exports of juniper meat, which is 10,000 tonnes, and together with Montenegro, BiH is selling barely a third of that amount. Our pig breeders have less cost of food and labour production than in Europe, but the diet is less efficient and genetics is worse, which is an obstacle to being more efficient and competitive. If it is invested in these two things, then Serbian producers will also reach the level of production achieved on farms in the Netherlands, Denmark and France. All, including the most developed EU countries, pay great attention to agriculture, especially livestock, so that more than half of the EU's budget goes to premiums and incentives in agriculture. I am taking the opportunity to appeal that, in the future, even more resources should be allocated to agriculture in the Republic's budget, because only so will the Ministry of Agriculture's efforts give optimal results, and even greater subsidies are granted to farmers. As for outstanding subsidies, the debt mentioned was the result of a poor legal solution, which envisioned that the funds were planned on the basis of the number of owners from the previous year for the next year, and could never be known how many holdings there would be in that year. Therefore, the planned funds were not sufficient to pay off the subsidies and thus the debt was created. The amendments to the law allowed households to register by 31 September and the budget to be planned by 31 December. A three-month period is enough to plan the funds and no debt. As for the IPARD Fund, this fund has identified 175m euros in Serbia. In order for these funds to be used, it was necessary to create material and technical conditions. This meant that it was necessary to move the Agrarian Payments Authority from Sapac to Belgrade, which was largely resistant and obstructive. This has been successfully done and is now being done to further improve the work of the Agrarian Payments Authority, so that they can use the funds allocated from the EU fund. Unlike previous ministries and governments, which did not resolve these issues, our ministry, with great effort and obstruction in 2015, relocated the Agrarian Payments Administration to Belgrade and created technical technological conditions for work. There is now a reception of experts who will work, about a hundred lawyers and economists. They should work on processing requests for subsidies and implementation of the IPARD project. The country's strategic definition is the development of livestock, and all the measures in livestock farming are retained from milk premiums left over by seven dinars, incentives by the throat of a cow that remains 25,000 dinars, up to incentives for sheep making, goating and porking. When I provided those data on the decline in production, I found that it was the only increase, in some 10-year period, when it came to sheep by 4.1 and goats by 42.8% and livestock by 25.4%. As an important newspaper to be pointed out, beekeeping associations are involved in implementing the provisions of this law. These associations are certainly most interested in gathering information relating to bee pasture, bee cadastre pasture and finological maps, and will also have an obligation to inform their beekeepers on a timely basis in mosquito control actions to prevent damage to bee society. The amendments to the law are newly regulated by game cultivation, in order to meet the requirements of well-being and to prevent the violation of biodiversity through the introduction of animal species that our country is not a natural habitat. Also, this law provides for conditions for aqua culture. A certificate shall be introduced in order to control illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Once again, to point out that the adoption of this law creates an opportunity to further improve livestock production in the Republic. Law-making is necessary to improve the work to raise the quality of livestock products in Serbia and improve the level of competitiveness of domestic producers. At the very end, I would like to commend the ministry's work at the head with you ministers. First of all, and with a large number of laws being passed in two years, if not the largest, all in order to encourage the development of agriculture in Serbia in all ways and we managed to record the growth of agricultural exports by 50%. In the end, I want to repeat that we will support all the laws of today's joint and unified search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49976	Thank you, Mrs. Marash. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49977	Thank you. Encouraged by Parliamentarian Marijana Maras, I would like to point out a few important issues, or several important issues that are being discussed these days, which are issues relating to incentives and subsidies in agriculture. You said you needed to allocate more funding for subsidies, more incentives. Simply, it is not controversial and each branch expects more, more donations, larger amounts, or larger amounts of money that it will be able to define according to its users. However, it should also be said that it is true that these funds are used for a specific purpose. I would like to say that when we took office, when I took over the minister's post a little less than two years ago, together with my associates, I followed and analyzed every incentive measure in agriculture with the desire to use the resources that we are about to use in the best possible way. We, therefore, in this year all the measures relating to livestock production, all the measures relating to rural development, have been maintained. Investment funds have been increased. When it comes to the extent that is often said today, these are incentives for plant production, they are, they are reduced, but they are not reduced so as not to give funds to agriculture. The funds will be given, but in terms of investments. Why is that? I am taking this opportunity to tell you and our MPs who are here what this result is? The consequence is that in the past two years, and so it has been before, the most resources were allocated to this particular measure. It's so-called. 100 euros per hectare. You can see it here on this chart. Here are the incentives in plant production, livestock incentives, milk incentives, or milk premiums and other incentives. This clearly shows that the most funds were received by just those who used direct measures for plant production or 100 euros per hectare. In 2014 20 billion, in 2015 18 billion. Thirty-eight billion is defined only for this 100 euros per hectare. In cattle farming, much less segregation, much less segregation for milk premiums and other incentives. When we took this data, when we started to analyze it, we realized that it was much better to give for wartime production and plant production, to improve production, to invest, because we practically spent these assets, and we don't have a result. If we don't have a result, they're clearly saying, say, about the surface under the orchards. This is the data from 2005 to 2014. You have planted apples, plum plantations, cherry and other fruit cultures. On this second table you also have for blackberries, raspberries, strawberries. All in all, when we take and look at these graphs, we see that in the last ten years nothing has changed in terms of the so far that are based. We don't have any new ones for now. They stay old. So we're not working on increasing the surface under the fruit. When it comes to war cultures, we have this chart. There aren't many crucial surfaces here right now, but offerings. We have corn, wheat and other war cultures. The wheat green, the corn red. On this second graph, you can see how they move with corn. So, from 3.6 to 7.2 tons per hectare. So many oscillations in corn yields say we haven't done anything in the last 10 years to improve production, and in the sense that we're using the funds we're getting to build, say, a irrigation system. It's a devastating fact that out of the 250,000 hectares that we have built irrigation systems, they're only used for 40 to 70,000 hectares, depending on year to year. That's why we have these oscillations. When we took this data and we detailed it out, we realized that instead of these 100 euros, we would give some incentives again for this measure, but to transfer some of it to investments, it means, for irrigation, for tractors, for new plantings. Now that I hear they say – the government has denied subsidies. That's not true. This government did not give, or that it paid off the defined funds based on the 2014 and 2015 budget, but also provided additional resources for this measure. In 2014, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/74 of 22 July 2015 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the European Union on the European Please, when it comes to how much money it is, we have dealt with this question – how many new ones would it be for now if we had applied this policy in the previous years, to simply increase the area under the orchards? So these are the direct assets that went into plant production in 2014-2015, the investment potential, that we used for investments, not for consumption. So, of these funds, 50% if we gave as we give incentives for investment, we'd have 20,657 new tractors. Serbia currently has about 225,000 tractors, of which 95% is over ten years old. If we'd invested these funds in new plantations of orchards, then this last column down here is about plantations that are completely modern. So both irrigation and netting, etc., we of these 38 billion would have 34,458 acres of new apple so far. Serbia currently has about 23,000 hectares under its apple. If we had invested in a plum, i.e. the means to raise new plant plums, we would have a new 27,000 acres, that's this last column down there that says – fully equipped orchards with anti-building nets, with irrigation systems. If we invested in raspberries, it is an investment that means three times the area under the raspberries, again the most modern for now than the area Serbia currently has. Eleven thousand acres for this investment potential of 33,680 acres we could raise new ones for now. Practically, if we were to look on average for all kinds of fruit, that's 30,000 new acres on average. This is why we now say – the state will continue, as it has helped agriculture in the previous period, to assist and continue as much as it can. But we have to have new fruit plantations, we have to have irrigation, because how do we prepare for the next year when even higher average daily temperatures are predicted, when the professional public says that if measures of preparation are not taken immediately, or adaptations are not taken in terms of the use of irrigation, we will have a simple drastic decline in the yield of war cultures and corn. There are a lot of these reasons, but I want to say that the government will support, that the government will help, but we have to water. That irrigation means we have to do a little more work. Here, I also found this chart that is really illustrative and to our shame as it was in 2014, that is this red line here relative to the surface and in 2015, relative to the surfaces that Serbia has. Therefore, those irrigation systems present and available are not used. At the end of the example, simple and simple, the average corn yield this year was 5.7 tonnes per hectare. If we had irrigated and watered our crops, we would have provided a minimum amount of 500 kilograms at no extra cost and additional investment. So that's a minimum. Five hundred kilos of corn, price 15, 16 dinars, that's about 80,000 dinars. That's about 650 euros. So our drought took 650 euros per hectare. If it were 10 acres, that's 65,000 acres. We're talking about these 100 euros now. I just want to say that our farmers know that we are obliged to convey information responsibly and to give them responsible guidance and to help them responsibly. It's not good if the policy continues as it has been, if we always give them a little bit, they get a little bit and they don't actually get anything, and the state loses a lot of money. Here, I showed you a practical copy of how much we lost the tractor, how much we lost a hectare of orchards, how much we lost the irrigation system. We, with this way of financing, or subsidising plant production simply in the coming years, have no chance of getting closer to our producers in Europe, or to competition in Europe. On the other hand, in livestock production, we saw results, and therefore in livestock production, we tried to keep that level of subsidies simple this year. In doing so, I say once again that both warriors and fruit farmers can use all the other measures available to them. So, they invest in an anti-building network, the state subsidises 45 or 55%, invests in seedlings, invests in any equipment related to plant production, fruit production, and we subsidize it. I just want to say that farmers, like so far, will still have maximum support and maximum help, but this is what we all need to know, and we all have to face these facts and this reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49978	Thank you, Madam Minister. Dear People's MPs, just to let me know that we are no longer in direct transmission since 20.00 hours. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go, Mrs. Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49979	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, has indeed been said today about the proposals of the laws we are discussing. I'll look back very briefly when it comes to the environment, not the laws, but the very importance of the environment of which there really was a lot of words. Let me just point out once again that it is not a static area, that it is an area that is very alive, which is very dynamic, which needs to be kept working, which needs to be constantly improved, not only because of the harmonisation of our regulations and EU legislation. Of course, because we know what our government's strategic commitment is. But much more than that, it's really something that we leave to our generations, about people who aren't responsible for what kind of environment they're going to inherit, to give birth to their children again, so that's exactly what we're responsible for. What we were talking about, of course, law-making, what's even more important is the proper implementation of these same laws. But I'd say it's not just the law. We really have to work on it. It's not just words to change our relationship to our environment. Many of us believe that some of our petty actions will not affect the environment. However, the moment each of us changes our thinking, your experience, your attitude towards the environment, it really is the moment when there are some big and big changes in whether or not we're going to throw that paper on the street, which at some point seems totally irrelevant to whether or not we're going to clean up in front of our own house. So something that depends on us alone, that's what we're supposed to be working on. So this really shows our relationship that as a society we've matured, that as individuals we've matured and that we're finally thinking a little bit and in advance, and not just at that given moment what we're doing. I can't help but look back, what my esteemed colleagues have already mentioned, and that's education again. The only way to change our consciousness, our experience of the reality of the environment, is to put this same environment and everything that it carries with it and means, into the process of education. So we teach our children what it is, how to treat it. That it's not simply something that God has given us that we can use as we please, as much as we want. That nature is an equally powerful force that can also respond to our actions and also rich in our failures, so that it is really worth putting the environmental issue, i.e. protecting the environment into our education system. It's my belief the only real way to really change something systemically, first in our relationship to the environment, and then, of course, everything further as the laws go and applying them. When it comes to livestock, something very important, it seems to me that for years, I'd say, I've been working on our livestock production being in the state it's in today, and I'm afraid it's not even a little good. So, what I'm doing, which I'm not doing. It's also completely absurd to expect that things in livestock as well as in the middle of the economy are changing all over the night, so I think that some of my colleagues' accusations that maltenes could have been changed by a magic wand, of course, that they can't. Of course, everything can be done faster and better and more efficiently than it was done, but it must really be admitted that a lot has been done, how to protect the environment, also when it comes to agriculture. A lot of things have been done and there's a lot of work to be done to improve that. I believe that things are changing in small steps, something has to start, and I really believe that these proposed amendments and additions to the cattle law are a good start, and I really believe that things in livestock will change and run better on this bill. As cattle farming is now, we all know very well, as I have already said, mostly in our villages, unfortunately living old people, these are old households, processing the land and raising domestic animals as they are used to, traditionally. They are not even referred to how they can make use of, say, pre-accession EU funds. It's simple, they're not in age, they're in power, they can change something, they don't have the will to be honest, that they're changing something at that age. What is it we have to do? Well, we have to get young people back to the country. What my esteemed colleague Marijan Rističević pointed out, of course, that I am not nearly professional, nor directed to that area like him, but what I notice in the conversation with the citizens is that many citizens would return to the country, start some small business in the livestock area, but what prevents them, which confuses them, which blocks them at the beginning, so they practically get scared and say – no, I am not up to it, is just some legal uncertainty, a misdemeanor that exists in the applicable law. So they're not sure they can't get into something like that. I believe that these changes and additions will really encourage people, really change and complement them, that they are quality and good, that they will encourage people to return to the country, to start some of their jobs in the livestock sector. What is changing is, for example, some of the existing ambiguities in the current law – artificial insemination. Now they're very precise, very clearly defined, so, the way in which artificial insemination is done, to which domestic animals can be used for this purpose, something that I say is unclear in the existing law, that is, something that changes. Then, the existing proposed changes and additions work to preserve indigenous races, which is certainly commendable. Then they regulate the issue of game growing, which is very important, and then production in aqua culture is also regulated, it's just one thing. Again, when it comes to fishing, it is very detailed what paperwork is needed, which has so far confused people, which paperwork is needed that you must have when fishing products are concerned. In this way, it is literally possible for our producers to participate in the international market and act in accordance with some international standards. What we all agreed with was that we should start production in our country. This is something that we need to work on urgently and not only to offer what is most important, as we have so far offered quality raw materials on the market, but to be able to place on the market a good, quality product and thus best increase our exports. That's the goal. How do you do that? First, to enable people, to encourage them by law, and to help them get into it, means to go into production. Second, of course, to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, so that standards and procedures are respected so that when they place products, they have no problems at all, at least in that legal nature. What needs to be potential is that it really does work to improve quality. According to us, God has indeed been favored when it comes to quality and when the raw materials we have to offer, and of course quality raw materials can be made a very quality product, so that we are truly blessed here. Now, if we're going to use that in the future right and right, it's already up to us. I believe that we will and I believe that this law will help, which is the most important of all. When it comes to quality, I will hurry to leave my colleagues with time to talk, what I would like to say is that thanks to these changes and additions, the ministry will have far more precise information when it comes to the quality of domestic animals, which is crucial. Why? So that they can plan their own policy when it comes to livestock, and of course, without a properly planned thing, nothing good can turn out, or without a good plan in the long run, there can be no real improvement. It is precisely that in the long run that is one feature and the way our government works, and that is exactly the way these laws are. I also think that environmental and livestock laws are good, that the laws are good, that they will help and improve the areas they relate to, so that in the day of voting they will get my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49980	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Topic, and let the MP Mirjana Djokovic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49981	In my address today, I will refer to the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on the Protection of Nature and the Law on Waste Management. It's about three individual laws that essentially make up the whole. They are connected to each other and only their integrated implementation can give quality, of course, based on planning and programming documents. The goal is to establish a sustainable environmental protection system in Serbia, as well as a significant involvement of this policy in other sectors. This provides conditions for better health, better quality of life for citizens, competitive economy, healthier nature and a more diverse flora and fauna. The specific value of these laws concerns compliance with other system laws, with the Budgetary System Act, which provides for the establishment of a green fund of the Republic of Serbia, the compliance of national legislation with EU rules relating to the opening of the negotiating chapter 27, the regulation of the legal framework with obligations made under international contracts. We must be aware that one of the most important chapters in the EU's negotiations is environmental protection, and all because one third of the EU's total legislation refers to the environment, and especially because the application of the principle of environmental integration in all other sectoral policies is aimed at achieving sustainable development. In addition to legal regulations and harmonisation of regulations, investment is particularly important, as well as professional staff, good administration, both at national and local level. These laws aim to improve the protection of the environment and sustainable development for the current and future generations. By taking legal measures, it affects preventive activities on the principle that the polluter pays, combats environmental damage at source, joint responsibility, integrates environmental protection into other policies, and in order to better protect human health. It depends on the health of nature both on the survival of the plant and animal world and on ourselves. The Environment Fund was abolished due to abuse, non-transparent and poor business, abolished on a proposal by Minister Dinkic in 2012, generated large costs and failed to fulfil the function for which it was intended. He did not realize over 2,200 signed contracts and thus created a debt of five and a half billion dinars. A good solution to funding is the establishment of a green fund as a budget fund managed by the ministry, then applying the principle – a polluter pays on equal terms for all legal persons performing economic activity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and providing funds through grants or loans intended to finance projects and programmes, activities relating to protecting and improving environmental protection. The proposed amendment of Article 100, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, in accordance with the law governing the budgetary system, opens a budget fund financed from the revenues achieved in the territory of the Autonomous Region, and for the budget fund of the units of local self-government under the fees prescribed by the law. In particular, as regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the protection of the environment related to the general objective of improving the protection of the environment, natural resources and human health, I would point out that the current EMAS system is being replaced by new EU solutions called EMAS 3 which achieves the right to obtain certificates from non-EU countries. EMAS is a voluntary environmental management system in organisations that want to improve their environmental performance and report on them. The amendments and additions of this law accurately define how to implement the rehabilitation and remediation of the degraded environment, so that persons who degrade the environment have an obligation to carry out rehabilitation and remediation by means of a project to which consent is given by the Ministry of Environment, except for projects of remediation and rehabilitation of mining facilities. It is then proposed that local self-government regulates the general conditions of protection, maintenance, restoration of green areas, for the sake of more efficient regulation of public green areas. A more orderly control of wastewater treatment is proposed, especially when it comes to mud remaining from purification, and must be treated, delayed and used in a way that does not endanger the environment. In order to comply with the provisions of the CITES Convention, Article 28 relating to all types of cross-border traffic and trade of endangered and protected species, which relate both to imports and exports, and not only to exports, as currently regulated by the applicable provisions of the law. Also, the erasure of Article 79 relating to the provision of information and is replaced in accordance with Directive 2003/4/EC on the availability of information on the environment, which is a harmonisation with the Law on free access to information of public importance, i.e. that information on the environment becomes available in the form of electronic databases easily available to the public. As for the amendment and addition of the Nature Protection Act, it puts nature and its values in the first place as good of general interest. The amendments and additions to this law aim to achieve better protection of nature conservation and its values, biological, geological and indifference areas as part of the environment. In addition to those general harmonisations, related to all three laws set out in this set on the improvement of the legal framework, with obligations undertaken by international contracts and EU requirements, the filling of legal gaps, these additions are specified material and legal solutions relating to the protection of natural habitats of flora and fauna in cross-border traffic, trade, breeding and keeping animals in zoos, improvement of supervision and control of inspection services, police and customs controls. For our country, particularly important areas have been declared protected natural species, mostly as monuments of nature, areas of exceptional features within which there is a significant part of the geonassed, national parks, parks of nature reserves. It is of great importance that geo parks are protected, protected and promoted by geonasal objects as cultural and historical values for science, education, culture and economy. The amendments and additions also specify the introduction of the obligation to preserve natural habitats or restore, in order to preserve rare flora and fauna that threaten extinction. In particular, the right and way of keeping live specimens of wild species in captivity is defined by providing conditions corresponding to race, type of gender, age, as regards both the work and the authorisation of zoos. As regards the amendment and addition of the Waste Management Act, the key amendment concerns compliance with other applicable environmental rules and the provision of subsequent application of the rules, in particular the Integrated Prevention and Control Act. The economic principle - the pay polluter, is a way of determining the financing of waste management, and I have already noted that for all legal persons under equal conditions that carry out economic activity on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in line with the proposed changes and additions governing environmental protection, if they are set up a budget fund, the Green Fund for those purposes. In particular, changes and additions to medical waste management costs as well as the organisation of organised waste transport, the creation of competition and healthy market conditions as a major developmental chance for Serbia through the establishment of a green economy, i.e. an organised waste market, the development of a collection network, which is of national importance for the transport of secondary raw materials and the development of recycling industry as a trend of modern society, which is of great importance in resource sustainability and re-application. As regards solutions to the classification of operators, the objective is to improve the overall waste management system through clearly introduced rules and procedures and to reduce risk as inadequate waste management. As a major problem in practice, non-sanitary garbage dumps that must be carried out are being prevented from being built by regional dumps in order to increase the coverage of the territory. Amendments and additions to the law define exactly the obligations of intermediaries and traders, the activity of the intervention in waste management, the way of payment for waste management, the documentation as well as the collection and classification of waste according to future treatment, the examination of waste, until the establishment of a legal institute for the discontinuation of waste status. In order to protect resources, in particular, the ban on the disposal and incineration of waste which meets the standards for re-use or re-use shall be regulated. Special attention shall be paid to the arrangements for the process of hazardous waste where the packaging, transport, prohibition, mixing of different categories of waste is precisely defined, as well as the ban on mixing hazardous waste with non-hazardous waste. As the waste itself must also be taken into account where waste management plants are built, and they must comply with urban plans. The protection of biodiversity and the establishment of an integrated waste management system are only some of the benefits that we will have in the field of environmental protection. It is important that absolutely all citizens, and especially economic operators, become aware that they can no longer function as they have done so far with bad habits and no responsibility for the environment, nature and environment, with cheap and dirty technology and traditional treatment of waste without recycling. We need to adapt to the new standards and regulations and ways of work that treat the areas of the environment in good time, and this is a great opportunity for the environment of Serbia and all its citizens. As my colleagues have already noted, counterpart Milicevic, Mihajlovic, co-worker Maras, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49982	I thank you, Mrs. Topic, your parliamentary group has no time left. The People's MP Mirjana Djokovic has the word, and let the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49983	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministerial with his associates, fellow MPs, on today's eight-hour tide, and more, we have really significant bill proposals. It is clear that these laws, with the principle of sustainable development, should ensure the protection of the environment, natural resources and human health. The focus of the environment policy of developed countries including EU countries is a high level of environmental protection and its foundation on economic principles. We know that the Green Fund was abolished by law in 2012 and the rights of the Fund have passed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and further jurisdiction has taken over the ministries within their competences established by the Ministry Act. This practically provides a legislative institutional framework for the smooth functioning of the environment system in the Republic of Serbia and achieves a timely alignment with EU rules on the adoption of sublegal acts. These amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act create general objectives established by law, i.e. by applying established principles. These amendments and amendments to the laws are in line with EU rules, establishing an effective system of issuing changes and withdrawing waste management permits. The establishment of a temporary authorisation system for large pollutants provides the basis for access to a certified environmental management and control system, the EMAC system for the introduction of new by-product institutes and the discontinuation of waste status shall represent some of the newspapers in this law. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment have been made to the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, the Directive on the availability of information on the environment 2003/04 EC, Directive 2003/35 EC and public participation in decision-making and legal protection rights in respect of the environment. The Archus Convention, as well as the harmonisation with the Law on Free Access to Information of Public importance and the view of equalising time limits with the provision of information and the cost of the issue of information and other exceptions. These amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act provide for further harmonisation with EU rules and harmonisation with other laws and harmonisation of the provisions of the law for effective implementation, above all, in the field of medical and pharmaceutical waste management. When I said at the beginning of the exhibition – environmental protection, general objectives established by law are achieved. Here are some principles that need to be applied, adopted by this law. In some countries of Europe, the EU and developed countries, the world is a high level of environmental protection, its foundation is on economic principles, wage polluter, and environmental protection policy is focused on the source of pollution with the intention of ensuring a balanced relationship between development interests and the need to protect the environment at their maintenance. By passing the Law on the termination of the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund, the Fund ceased to operate. The law was passed in 2012. The law requires that the fund's competence be taken over by the Republic of Serbia and that the rights and obligations be assumed by the government, as well as that the Fund's obligations be taken over and taken care of in accordance with the Ministry's Law under its jurisdiction. The abolishing of the fund has created the need to find solutions for a stable financing of environmental protection with the Budgetary System Act, the applicable Environmental Protection Act does not contain provisions that have been adopted on the grant of state aid. This is one of the reasons for amending and supplementing this law and harmonising it with the rules on granting state aid. Partial harmonisation and Directive 86278 EC on the protection of the environment, in particular protection in the use of sewage mud in agriculture in order to re-use this sewage mud by technological treatment. To conclude, this law should address, in particular, the issue relating to the harmonisation of rules in the field of water protection against mud pollution, as well as the effective implementation of provisions relating to the limit values of water pollution materials. Through the system of plans, deadlines, controls, proposed solutions in this law, it will facilitate the achievement of the prescribed mission limit values by enabling economic operators to identify their level of achievement through action plans that will prepare and bring legal persons and entrepreneurs who release their waste water into the sewer. In order to effectively implement the provisions, inspection and sanctioning systems are also foreseen. This law legally regulates the obligations and treatment of the disposal and use of mud resulting from wastewater treatment and a way not to endanger the environment and human health, etc. By passing this law, amending and supplementing the law on its strict application, there will be no threat to the environment. Finally, I have to say something, given that today there have been major criticisms against the government and its President Alexander Vukic, regardless of all their criticisms, Aleksandar Vukic has embarked on reforms and will complete those reforms within a certain time limit, so that Serbia will step on its feet. So this law will accept SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49984	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49985	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who will see this all in a delayed transfer, we are facing today extremely important laws in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. I will take a brief look at the amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. This is one system law in this area, and I would say that the basic objective of this bill is precisely to respect the principle of sustainable development in order to ensure a healthy environment, natural resources, but what may be above all else and at any moment most important to our citizens is the health of our citizens. Of course, Chapter 27 of the environment awaits us and it is extremely expensive, extremely complicated, challenging, many projects in this area need to be implemented, but I am sure that we will succeed, given that the goals we set are extremely high. I have to point out that it's a good thing we have a green fund, a budget fund. At this point it is good, because in one responsible way we will have a stable funding in this area, but it is good that these amendments and additions of laws also bring us the possibility to local self-government that they can set up their own budget fund. I think respect for the principle – the lung contaminant, as well as the principle of responsibility, is extremely important, but my respected colleagues today have said a lot, so I don't want to repeat myself just to point out the situation on the ground. Many in Serbia are examples of environmental threats, and these problems are mostly inherited. This government has decided to solve all these problems in part. I have to point out the obvious problem from the Ivanica municipality, because of course, I'm a local patriot, so who will if I don't tell you about the problems of their community. The polluter “Spik Iverica” is registered and is a company that remains after the failed privatisation of once known combinations, giants in the wood industry “Spik”. Today, the rest of the hectares are empty, as are all over Serbia, this is not a unique case. The machines were cut and sold into old iron, and in this company owned by an Italian company, it remained to work less than 100 people. Today, this company threatens the environment, endangers people's lives. They appeal daily for petitions. Some measures have been taken, but the final problem has not yet been resolved and it is very important that the participation and inspection and local self-government, as well as the restoring ministry, are very important. The problem is the noise most in the night conditions. Sometimes that's the problem, I'd say, and the human factor is expressed, which can be solved, at least I think, but the problem is air pollution, tiny particles that threaten people's lives, the propylene is still in the trafostation as a potential danger. I, here, use once again the opportunity to appeal to the Resolute Ministry, if it has its powers, to finally solve this problem and solve it. As far as the second bill is concerned, these are amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act. I'm just going to make three facts and nothing else, because everything else, I mean, is said. First, let me say that the project of the dump is deeply realised by the loan, because that's how it used to be done, we've borrowed, we've borrowed, we've borrowed, we've borrowed five million euros, and now, of course, our municipalities have an obligation to pay for it. Under number two, I will highlight the results of this ministry led by a respected minister, but I would also point out, of course, that Mrs. Stana Bozovic's contribution to the environmental portfolio, which, together with their associates, provided support for Duboko and that: one million euros for the transfer of the station to Cačka, two and a half million euros for the rehabilitation of the icefield and the expansion of part of the dump at the location of Duboko, five hundred thousand euros for the separation of waste in Ariel, 200 thousand euros for the recycling yard in Baja Basta. Under number three, I would appeal and ask the competent ministry, if possible, to consider the possibility of transfering the station to Ivanjica, especially if we are joined in the future by neighbouring municipalities, which are: Sjenica, Nova Varoš, Priboj and Prepolje. I will focus my further exposure on another extremely important law, and all of them are important, these are amendments and additions to the Law on cattle farming. One of the branches of agriculture, I don't know if I can dare, the most important branch of agriculture is livestock farming, and exactly what the results of this branch are, is the reflection and development of a society, I would say especially of our society. We've heard what the current situation is, that there's been a collapse of the stock fund, the data is talking about it, not just the number of throats, it's directly producing that we have fewer products, that it's even smaller meat production. For example, the production of cattle, as far as I was able to learn from the data, has been reduced by 30% in the last five years, by about 14% of pig meat. We have to change that all together, and I hope that this bill will lead to that. The reasons for this, of course, are also to be found in the fact that there is a growing population left in the country, which has contributed to the migration towards the city centres, but of course the white plague has taken its toll. The companies that existed in this area, as well as agricultural cooperatives, have been destroyed. But we've passed the Co-operation Act, so I hope we can break this barrier now. And what's very important for our agricultural producers is that they have an organized market performance. It's extremely important. The objectives of this law, of course, are to change all that, if we had a quantity, but I would apostrophe to the quality of livestock products. The benefits of this law are first growners, our cattlemen, but they have all the organisations that offer numerous programmes and regional and domestic, but also have beekeeper associations, have fish producers, game breeders, but also the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, because this way they will have much better information that they will receive from the field. Of course, eastern Serbia may have the greatest possibilities in Serbia, but I would say that the Ivanica municipality also has the exceptional potential to revive our villages, to finally help our peasant and this way, because he expects state aid, expects support in both subsidies, both in incentives and in a better market performance, but of course also in education. To conclude, for Serbia's further development, Serbia's progress is of great importance to the development of agriculture and livestock. Of course, not suspiciously in the voting day together with colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, I will support all six draft laws in the area of agriculture and environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49986	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. He's not in the O.R. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk. He's not in the O.R. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Nikolic. He's not in the O.R. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49987	Just for a little while. I wanted to look back at Milosevic's statement and say that you were absolutely right that we wanted to revive Serbian villages, but that degradation and emigration from Serbian villages is a process that has lasted, not for years, but decades. We're confident that we can run things in a positive direction and that's why we're doing all this. It is true that our results in livestock are positive, that we have a positive trend, but of course we know how vulnerable that area is and it takes years to continue this positive trend to say that we have reached the final result. As for your local patriotism and Ivanjica, of course, I am also committed to Ivanjica, and Cačka, and to Western Serbia, but as minister and all parts of Serbia. I know how many domestic animals are grown in Ivanjica. Do you know what it is now? I know how famous this area was for potatoes, far-known and famous, and how famous it is now. It is good that our Ivanjicans now see their chance in the production of raspberries, and it is good that in this production we have extraordinary results and I hope that these Serbian villages, or our villages around Ivanjica, and in the environment will restore that old tradition, the old spirit of farming and livestock, and there is no better cheese, there is no better chamomile than in these areas. As far as environmental issues are concerned, these issues are important and I am glad that Ivanjicans are showing great interest in even stronger, even more, even better inclusion in the waste collection system and I will consider your idea with my associates and be sure that we will support Ivanjica as we have supported other municipalities, but you just have to know that local self-governments have to, they have to know what they want, they have to turn to us, and we are always there to answer every request, every idea always and ever. The issue of pollution caused by Spik is currently a question that we have already discussed. Our inspections are on the ground all the time, controlling, writing and punishing and ordering that the situation be corrected. It is not always easy and easy to come up with solutions that would satisfy the citizens, but we will continue to endure in this business and we will continue to be on the ground and we will continue to point to those who pollute the environment and we will fight for the environment to be, as healthy as possible, to protect and protect it. To work on it, they're saying enough of the laws that we're proposing today, but all of those projects that we've been able to finish or start in the past two years, so now they're in progress. Once again, thank you very much and I'm glad the Ivanians are so active in this assembly hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49988	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49989	I will try to include all three laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, nature protection and waste management in my presentation. Energy systems in Serbia are still based on long-term capacities and dirty technologies, using mostly inefficient low-quality coal, lignite, whose combustion in thermal power plants creates pollution that damages citizens' health by directly damaging their respiratory system by entering the blood and lymphatic system. According to the Alliance for Health and Environment Report, Serbian coal thermopower plants make a significant contribution to industrial air pollution and associated with poor health in Europe. HIL estimated that sulphur dioxide emissions, nitrogen oxide and floating particles coming from Serbian coal power plants could be the cause of 2,100 preventive deaths each year and come up with health costs of 1.8m to nearly incredible 5 billion euros. It is interesting that rarely anyone mentions municipal waste as a way to solve environmental problems, while at the same time receiving electricity and heat. It's forgotten that it's not all garbage, it's just the part that can't be used again. Many European capitals have long recognised municipal waste as a significant energy resource. Germany, for example, has 6,000 plants to obtain heat and electricity from municipal waste, while only a few facilities that have the purpose were built in Serbia. Using municipal waste for heat and electricity can reduce the total greenhouse gas emissions in Serbia, and we consider the programme one of the most profitable sectors in the modern world. Otherwise, unfortunately, we all know that Serbia is at the top of the world by the number of cancerous diseases. In addition to NATO's bombing with impoverished uranium, the causes are also in the ever-present nuclear waste near major city centres. Is there a map of dangerous places with locations where nuclear waste is located, which the state claims to be temporarily stored and do these dumps have state secrets status? I note that a German Bundestag member from the SPD party, our colleague Mikhail Miller, recently presented information that Germany is not planning to store its nuclear waste only somewhere in a container in the yard, but in those countries that are ready for economic reasons to accept it, such as some Balkan countries. On the grounds of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on cattle farming, we believe that this is a matter of mere compliance with EU rules, which control this area. Parts of the draft law shall be subject to compliance with the Article. 27, 30 and 37. Stabilisation and Association Agreements and they mainly refer to unlimited imports of EU products that can negatively affect our agricultural production. We believe that quantitative restrictions should be imposed, given the possibility of unlimited imports of agricultural products. Domestic and legal individuals have fully equalised themselves with this bill with foreign natural and legal persons, which leads to the conclusion that foreign persons, after the adoption of this law, exercise the same powers as Serbian citizens. As part of the draft Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, we are of the opinion that the reasons for the adoption of Amendments and Supplements to the Convention are as follows: The Convention will certainly be activated and binding for us when it is adopted by two thirds of the members of the MAEM States; in our country, the responsibility in nuclear security has an agency to protect against ionising radiation and nuclear security, and there is no need to form a new administrative body; amendments and additions to the Convention will not require any new costs in the budget; during the dispatch of spent nuclear fuel, the RA reactor from the Institute in Vinci for Russia, and in the framework of and with the competence of the public undertaking Nuclear facilities of Serbia, safety and safety measures have been implemented that meet the requirements of the amended and updated Convention. The Serbian People's Party will voice its views on the proposed laws through the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49990	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49991	Just for a little while. It's been a long time since we've been in the O.R., but it's a lot of law and laws are important, and I just want to answer you, too. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle production, you say, provides the possibility of importing agricultural products, i.e. livestock products and thus jeopardising the market for domestic products. I would disagree entirely with you. It's simply not about that kind of security of the possibility of easy traffic, it's about, first of all, the transport of fish products. So our particular economic operators are dealing with the processing of fish and sea fish. These fish are imported, processed, processed, packaged and re-placed on the domestic market or on the foreign market. In order for them to continue to function and that would be acceptable, so as not to get a ban on exporting these products further to Europe, they simply must agree to the rules, i.e. to bring together the necessary documents or certificates. This means that our seafish processors and processors must, in addition to the basic documentation, apply a document guaranteeing the origin of the fish. In this way, the European Union, European countries are struggling to preserve fish funds in the seas and oceans. They're fighting irregular, illegal fishing, and that's what we've built through this law. So it exclusively refers to trade in this type of product -- the sea fish that is being processed and processed here in Serbia, and then further placed. All the other stores remain as they were before. You know well that we borders cannot close hermetically. We have taken on certain obligations to liberalise the market for agricultural and food products when it comes to the European Union, that in 2008, which we agreed, which someone once signed, we have received appropriate concessions. But that doesn't mean our market is open. Our market continues to be protected through customs measures for a number of tariff lines of agricultural products, through levies, sometimes they are smaller for some products, for some larger ones, but the fact that this period of more liberalisation took place in 2014 and the fact is that we have been in one problem since then, as is the fact that we often have to reach for those unpopular measures – additional increases in customs and levies. Of course, we try to always prove to our partners in Europe the justification of introducing these measures and they are always limited in character. They simply have their term of duration and their validity. This is how we want to maintain the credibility we have achieved, which is that we are a reliable partner for both the EU and countries in the environment and the Russian Federation. Simply, we want a good, correct and partner relationship, because we know how important all these markets are and a good business relationship for the sale of our agricultural and food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49992	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Let MP Aleksandar Pajovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49993	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say something about the proposal for a law on the protection of the human environment. Let me say right away at the beginning without having a dialogue, isn't it possible that Madam Minister might think well in the future that the law bears the term "protection and promotion laws"? That should be considered, since we don't have time to talk about it, but I think we should wear that name. This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who presented to us the MPs on 27 April 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, having forgotten some, do not forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic is the most transparent, most concrete, most precise, 52 densely typed sides and the best made up of all 72 previous exposés by the Serbian Prime Minister since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister, Mr. Prota Matija Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. The Prime Minister's exposé on page 31, among other things, said that one of the strategic goals in the development and improvement of agriculture is to quote "and sustainable resource management and environmental protection", the quote concluded. In my knowledge, none of the previous government presidents have spoken in the last 10 years about protecting and improving the environment in the exposé. The basic reason, as you, Madam Minister, and our fellow MPs today have said, for the adoption of the law was to firstly bring our legislation and rules domestically into line with EU rules. But not only that, but to comply with our regulations on granting state aid, which is very important. Also, harmonising with the fact that the environmental fund has stopped working. We've heard various opinions today from the opposition why this fund didn't work. I'll tell you what, but in the end, I'm going to get concrete information, it's about what the former government of the former regime robbed that fund. I'm going to tell the State Auditor exactly what this is about, and let me start by saying what the problem is. It is true that the application of this law will improve the harmonisation of laws with relevant international agreements and regulations from the EU when it comes to protecting and improving the human environment. This is what will bring us closer to European legislation, and ultimately the ultimate goal of EU accession. I must say, the law will allow continuous financing of the environment. It's not true that she didn't finance herself, as the gentlemen of the opposition benches say. It has been financed continuously through various ways, through the government or through certain ministries, and by forming a green fund as the Republic of Serbia's budget fund is an extremely important thing. So the question was, where did the money come from for the green fund? From the budget, of course, the Republic of Serbia has nothing to dispute about. Let me further say that there will be better availability of information on protecting and improving the environment and better participation of our citizens in making environmental decisions. What's very important, today I noticed that the opposition gentlemen, someone was saying that we should work more on air quality. I think that's where the accent really needs to be thrown. Let me say by my own knowledge, how much information was available to me, in 2014, 68.8% of the population of the Republic of Serbia had clean air or slightly polluted air. Is that good of 100%? I don't think it's weak, but we'll still work in different ways. I see that the law, right away, is well-conceived and well-placed. He's in Valjev, for example. The air was too polluted, let the gentlemen of Valjevo hear it, and Vojvodina had clean air in relation to the entire Republic of Serbia, only Sremska Mitrovica was moderately polluted, compared to the other part of the Republic of Serbia, for example. in Bor, Smeder and Uzica, the air was too polluted. We really need to take care of it. Over what? Irena's colleague mentioned, among other things, through educational institutions. Education is very important to every citizen of ours, and that means before they enter primary school, even in kindergarten. How? To make plans and programmes, not to make special, but there are curricula in primary, secondary schools and to colleges, within each teaching programme you can spend two hours in elementary school, if one subject is a one-hour course, then in 35 hours two are set aside for the protection and promotion of the human environment. How? By adapting the teaching content and children to these problems. That's very important. It would be good to connect the ministry with the Ministry of Education and Science, as was the case when the Sport Act was passed. Let me further say that the problem is the big ambrosia in Serbia, and this is where we need to take a special account. The largest concentration in all of Serbia is in Kula and Vienna and local communities, indeed, gentlemen from these areas need to make a little more accounts, because they had a very big problem with the disease of that ambrosia. Next, work on better water quality. How's our water? I have to say that in the last two three years, but if you want and five years, the quality of water from the rivers is improving, both smaller and larger. At the level of the Republic of Serbia on the Danube Basin, however, we cannot say for Morava and Sava that quality is significantly improved, etc., which means that we must take more care of it in the future. Dominant water pollution in the Republic of Serbia stems from municipal, industrial sources. That's what's the big problem. It's a big problem through the communal systems that flush their uncleaned waste. It's a really big problem, and I think there's going to be an account here in the future. Waste management, it's a global problem, it's one of the big problems in our country as well. Let me say that in 2014 the Republic of Serbia produced 6,12 million tonnes of waste and, watch out, of these six million, 5.9 million tonnes has the characteristics of harmless, only 210 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste and it is very important, especially its storage. I think this is the data that needs to be accounted for in the future. When it comes to dumps, which have been mentioned today, let me say, by my own information that I have come to, there are seven sanitary dumps in the Republic of Serbia that have been mentioned today. I don't know, there were two more dumps that were supposed to get their licenses. I don't know if they get in the meantime, that would be about nine. However, on the territory of local self-government, what today was a misunderstanding by MPs from opposition benches, public utility companies are organised to delay waste, but all of my information from certain institutions, in 120 dumps or dumps in 123 municipalities. I couldn't get the information from another municipality. These are mainly dumps which, in accordance with the Waste Management Strategy, are intended for recovery or closure. Now there's a big problem with what I'm about to say. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in the territory of the Republic of Serbia there are 3085 old and wild dumps, this is a problem for polluting our environment. When it comes to packaging, someone mentioned, really, here, in my opinion, I'm not an expert on that, but I think some shifts are really done. The amount of packaging placed on the market in the Republic of Serbia in 2014 is 327 thousand tonnes, so thousands of tonnes, the amount of waste reused is within the packaging of 102 thousand tonnes, which is not small, but of course it needs to be done to make it as much as possible, and 100,000 tonnes recycled. However, 120 tonnes remain, they really need to be used in the sense that more recycling is being done from that part, in order to make better use of it. Let the Members of the People's Parliament answer some questions which the opposition gentlemen today unwarrantedly accused the government, the current government, and individual ministers in the government of money from the Fund for Protection and the promotion of the human environment. Madam Minister, it is not you, nor any minister from the cabinet of Prime Minister Vukic, but the former regime minister, the minister of protection of the human environment DS, that I quote -- at the Environmental Protection Fund for Pre-election Campaign DS spent huge funds on subsidising companies that imported batteries and recycled them, finished the quote. Mladjan Dinkic in this large building of the National Assembly 21 and 22.9.2012. The one who was the minister in the government really accused his colleague of taking away the huge money. It is not you, Madam Minister, that no minister in Mr. Vukic's cabinet, but the minister of the former DS government for the protection of the human environment has paid, I quote -- posters and billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia", more than 500,000 euros, half a million, completed a quote, a report by the state auditor for 2011. The data is not from newspaper articles, these are indeed data from the state auditor. Not you, Madam Minister, nor any cabinet minister of President Vukic, but a former minister in the former government, I quote -- paid for advertising in one daily list of 500,000 euros, completed a quote, a report by the state auditor for 2011. It wasn't you, Madam Minister, or any minister at Prime Minister Vukic, but the former environment minister in the former government paid DS for it, I quote -- making the site "Let's Clean Serbia", 25,000 euros, finalising. It is not you, Madam Minister in the cabinet, nor anyone in the cabinet of Mr. Prime Minister Vukic, but a former minister in the former DS government, I quote -- who paid the lions at Palic, a finished quote, a certain amount of money. This was further established by the State Audit Institute not on the first report but on the second report, which was also notified by the policy on 25.9.2012, page seven. It is not the government at Sinisha Mali's level, but the government of Dragan Gilas when it comes to protecting the environment in alleged laws, the garbage mafia in Belgrade embezzled 310m dinars and sentenced to 73 years in prison. It's a done quote from the verdict. Here, gentlemen, where the money is still not you, Madam Minister, as Minister of Agriculture, nor anyone in this government but former Minister of Agriculture, in the former government Dusan Petrovic, destroyed 250,000 cows in one year of 570,000 as it was in that year. No minister in Vucic's cabinet, but a former federal minister, one of the ministers polluted the environment by injecting chickens. So, with a mixture of yogurt and water in the village of Pukovac and Čagrovec, the chickens died, he took the money and polluted the environment for the citizens. And finally, this law, Madam Minister, by me, is a very good law. I believe that the citizens of Serbia will receive a modern law and by applying this law that we will indeed contribute to the protection and promotion of the environment, which will, in some ways, contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is so warmly advocated and not only advocated but also carried out by our Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, most of these MPs in this high house, as well as the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, but most Serbian citizens, I would say plebicitarian. In that name, I call on the opposition gentlemen even though they are not here tonight, but they will probably look from the screen, to support this law, because at least that way, even so, they will show the will and contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia that this government is implementing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49994	Thank you. The word has Dr Aleksandar Pajovic, and let the peoples of MP Dusan Jankovic be prepared as the last reported debater. Here you go, Mr. Spider.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49995	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honored Minister with Associates, to congratulate you on your persistent and concentrated work, is ten hours of today's prey. I'll tell these laws a few sentences, try to say what hasn't been said so far. In the introduction, let me just say that this country of Serbia is going slowly but securely towards the EU. That road isn't easy, there's a lot of stairs to overcome, a lot of obstacles, but obviously we're going towards one goal that's already being seen. It is clear to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for doing so through its self-absorbed work, but here, this tenth assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly at the end, and I would also like to thank my fellow Members who have contributed to the adoption of more laws, legislative acts and to the accession of our legislative, regulatory EU. It is one factor necessary for Serbia to join the family, a European family whose culture, tradition, cultural heritage, prominent personalities, through history at the world level, absolutely always belonged. When we talked about the cattle law, I'd just like one detail. We may have two positions here, certainly rural development, and it has been said and I absolutely support all of these laws that go from the Ministry of Agriculture, investment in livestock farming in agriculture in general, whether cattle farming or warfare. However, I would say when we say restore the village, improve organic production, healthy food, we still have two categories of inhabitants in the country. We have farmers of young people who are ready for projects, ready to accept the loans and subsidies that the state gives, but we have that old ageing part of households, villages that are unable to deal with some high, large production, and some projects need to be taken into account that the little production they have has to have a safe purchase. Our people are in the mood to work. Our people are willing to work, but I think, coming from these parts, that I can see this problem, that a certain ransom is needed and one approximately not only a certain ransom is one price that is real, so that our farmer would be granted a stable social status. In addition, perhaps we could, today there was no reference to the Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. What's this about? The convention was signed in Vienna in 2005. So far 84 states have signed the convention. Serbia should lay down conditions for the ratification of the agreement and be included in that group of European states. What's this about? Which is why this Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material is important. It's important because of global protection from terrorism. Namely, this is about the physical protection of nuclear material and nuclear objects used for peaceful purposes. This is not about the protection of military facilities and nuclear facilities, it's about objects used for peaceful purposes. There are two interesting situations here. One, and those States Parties to this Convention shall cooperate with each other. The mutual co-operation is on a diplomatic level because if there is a threat that an object may be compromised, then these countries react, exchange information, and each other help. They help by informing immediately the other countries that are signatories to this Convention so that some nuclear disaster can occur, and the countries at risk must immediately inform them, and other countries to provide immediately information on whether they are able to assist them. I'm saying, there wasn't a word about it today, but it's something in the time of this terrorism, something that might happen in the future and get to us. So these are two settings, one is when the state is threatened and giving notice to neighbouring countries and the other if the signatories of this Convention notice and have information that there may be a physical attack on nuclear facilities in another country, that they co-operate with each other, and that goes through diplomacy. When we talk about waste, I'll just say part of maybe from the profession, about medical waste, about the storage of medical waste, that is, that the medical waste producer must have a plan to store medical waste, and that plan can work by the manufacturer if it produces up to 100 tonnes of unclassified medical waste or 200 kg of hazardous medical waste. Then he can make his own management plan. However, if a medical waste producer produces over 500kg of hazardous medical waste, then the health ministry is making a plan. In addition, medical waste is stored, medical waste is classified and medical waste is transferred. How? According to certain regulations, it means that certain vehicles, and there must be contracts between the medical waste producer and the transporter, and this ultimately goes to the processing of medical waste. Medical waste is being processed either by us, in our country, if there is no possibility, then it is being exported. So these are some of the situations that come across us every day, as I think of medical waste, as well as the waste that happens in the wind. The ministry is one in charge of medical care, the veterinary department is responsible for the other. That's the two things I wanted to say. Nuclear material and medical waste, not mentioned today. Everything else in these environmental laws has already been said and it is clear that the awareness of our population is important, and also, if the state is richer, it will all be easier to implement it. Certainly, these laws, the environmental law on nature protection, the laws that are here today, at the plenary session, are laws that need to be supported, and that will certainly support our parliamentary group with them. I thank your Ministry, I know about the activities you're carrying out and being stable, maintaining the agriculture of a country, that means the stability of a nation. I point out again, there is a need for subsidies in agriculture, and a safe purchase of agricultural products is needed, and then it will all go easier in the end. In voting day, clearly, like everyone else, I will support that and welcome once again the proposals of these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49996	Thank you, Mr. Paiovic. The word is Snow White Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49997	The MP encouraged me to encourage him and the MPs present in the hall, and in a delayed transfer and our viewers to tell us what else the Ministry of Agriculture has done in the previous period to encourage agricultural production to support those people who want to return to the countryside and to deal with agriculture or those who are already in the country and working there. So, in addition to those measures that we implement through subsidies, we have indeed done a lot in the previous period to achieve the objectives of starting the use of IPARD funds. Often people are impatient, often citizens don't understand why we haven't started yet, why we don't start using them, but I have to say that during this government, first of all, the IPARD program is adopted. That's the basis for even moving towards these funds. When the programme was adopted, when the Commission approved the funds, this technical part of the work on capacity preparation followed. So, the move of the Agrarian Payments Authority to Belgrade, the provision of space, the provision of technical resources, and now this employment is followed by additional consent by the government and now it is a matter of technical procedure. All in all, we expect the first calls to be made in the middle of the year, and I want to say that these are complex procedures, that these are complicated procedures, that not only the Ministry of Agriculture participates in them, but also other ministries that are connected and connected with us, but simply we all work hard to achieve that goal. When we get to these funds, we will focus a significant part of our users' incentives on European funds. Those who do not use European funds will benefit from the national budget. It's not possible to use each other at the same time. This is all to say that we are simply working to expand and strengthen the material base and material support to the Serbian farmer and the Serbian village. In doing so, I also want to say that, just before I showed both the tables and the analyses that we've come to, and we're very serious about all these problems because we simply believe that this is the last moment that farmers are heading in the right direction. And in the context of everything that I've just said and just before I mentioned it, I want to show you the activity that is directed at preparing the labs for our farmers and for those who will be future farmers. Let's say, these are lobbys from the fruit production area. Here we have 15 kinds of fruit, from dunes, nuts, peaches, apples, pears, etc. These are all the projects that are the Ministry of Agriculture, these are from fruit growing, and we have both from livestock and from warfare and organic production, this is us as the Ministry of Cooperation with the scientific institutions, and we have, you know, colleges, colleges, excellent institutes, prepared for our farmers. The property of the projects is at the Ministry of Agriculture, but this is the property of our farmers. They're all these projects, so these are from fruit growing, 15 kinds of fruit, here we have from livestock, from warfare, from organic fruit production, we have organic vegetable production, and so on, we have plants to use biofuels. So these are all the projects that we have prepared for our farmers so that they can easily get information that they simply know what they can prepare and what they have to do to start production or to start modern production. For example, this one for peaches. What do we got here? This shows the cultivation technology and everything that needs to be prepared to create one so far, from, say, a hectare. One hectare. What a farmer should do and the future fruit farmer or one who deals with another kind of agriculture, what to prepare, how much funds are needed and what results he can expect in another, third, etc. A year. These are projects that are also important for the use of IPARD funds. These are projects that are important to others that will be targeted at national programmes, which will use credit funds, which will benefit our funds that we encourage investment, and you know that we have the means to encourage the raising of so far, new so far. It is just amazing that in previous years these funds were not used to this extent, there was simply not so much interest, there was the most interest in that 100 euros per hectare. And for that 100 euros per hectare, they were going huge funds, and we're on the surface when it comes to fruit growing, we stayed at the level of 10 years ago. And not that we're at that level, but the simple quality of our orchards is safer and weaker since our orchards are often over 20 years old. Of course, we also have modern pastures, but it's far less than what we should really have. It's just that now I've taken advantage of the opportunity to show you, to tell you that we are seriously, responsibly, professionally treating all these issues. We're willing to support the farmers as much as possible as the Ministry and as the Government, but we can't say what simply doesn't correspond to the truth. We can't say that in agriculture it's only possible on the basis of subsidies and the material that the state makes possible to survive. In agriculture, as in any other activity, it is simply necessary to invest a lot of work, to invest in modern material and technical means, to pay for achievements and to strive for both quality and continuity in order to survive in these times to come. Thank you for this opportunity to show you and the MPs, and I hope that this activity and our efforts will benefit our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49998	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is from MP Dusan Jankovic. Here you go, Dr. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u49999	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the distinguished minister with his associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, has already been said on all points of the agenda in today's discussion, as much as possible. I will try in short lines to give my contribution and an explanation for accepting this before us the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cattle farming, which was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. It is generally known that livestock farming is a higher stage of war production in agriculture and that agriculture is one of the indicators of one country's development. The adoption of this bill would solve a number of problems and concerns that breeders have in livestock production, which would make a good step towards improving both livestock farming and overall agriculture, not only in the manufacturing, but also in the legislative part, and which is very important because of compliance with European Union rules. These amendments and additions to the Law on livestock include not only our usual classical livestock production, but also fishing with its products, as well as beekeeping and production and game cultivation. This proposal also mentions and includes distribution centres for the transport of reproductive material, and what is very important for improving both the quantity and quality of livestock products, and we all know who they are. In fact, only high quality products, with the simultaneous harmonisation of legislation with European Union regulations, can find their way to European and world-wide already selective consumers. This proposal for a law also provides for the exact documentation to be accompanied by fishery products placed on the market. As far as beekeeping is concerned, there is a system for the management of the bee pasha catastre and phenological maps, as well as the obligation to report to beekeeping associations when carrying out actions to combat mosquitoes, and to reduce the damage to beekeeping. Given that beekeeping products are becoming increasingly relevant, it was high time to bring about comprehensive legal concerns and regulation on beekeeping. The application of this law stimulates the emergence of new operators in order to control the production of reproductive abilities and positive selections in general in livestock farming. All these proposed legislative solutions do not lead to the burden of production, on the contrary, provide more space and guidance on how to achieve greater and better quality production, and in order to meet both domestic and foreign consumers. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of these proposed laws and all those laws proposed on the agenda today. We also invite all other MPs of this house to vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u50000	Thank you. Since we are no longer registered for word by word, before the conclusion of a joint principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. You have four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u50001	Long enough not to be too long. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first, to correct the question of environmental protection, my lapus. It's about Zoran Cvianovic, the actor. I put that in another name. Just to make it right for the viewers who watch it on a delayed transmission. Also, to correct the possible lapus by watering 500kg of more 650-euro corn. It is 5,000 kilograms and to correct that Serbia has no 225,000 tractors, but 410 double-axial and 186,000 single-axle tractors, there are two and a half million connected devices, so it has a chance to develop both the machinery industry and the accompanying industries that need to supply the farm with machinery, equipment, machinery, tractors. Unfortunately, with privatisation, the machinery production factories have disappeared. 400,000 jobs went missing, many of which were in the metal industry where I worked alone in IMT. I think I've proven we've suffered a loss of stock funds of almost a billion euros a year. So it wasn't just one year that a billion disappeared, it was 12 years ago. When you multiply that, you had damage to the physical volume of live scales of about 10 to 12 billion, and processed those 400,000 workers that should have been processed and the equipment. It was worth about two billion every year. So, we've lost about 20 to 24 billion in the last 12 years, thanks to citizens handing over power to irresponsible people who, besides themselves, their wallets and their friends, saw nothing else, who weren't thinking through their minds, but were thinking with their own wallet and their party friends' wallet. As for livestock, a lot of water will flow. It's hard to rebuild. Subsidy, so as not to be secret, and the processing industry is that and the production of equipment that was supposed to pull agricultural production. The incentives are small. They are almost eight times smaller than Europeans. Since these previously signed the unfortunate SAA, where too early and excessive liberalisation is allowed nine years before EU entry. They have exposed our farmers who have eight times less incentives to farmers who have eight times the incentive and have allowed this on our market to be threatened by dumping. The prices of agricultural products in Europe are below the production prices, i.e. below the cost of costing and it is called dumping. We cannot fully protect farmers for the simple reason that there must be market disturbances first. Finally, to say that agriculture is a great opportunity for Serbia, as well as for the processing industry and energy, equipment and service, which, by means of machinery, is a great opportunity for new technologies, which by science, the service of one, the other and the third, each of us has the right to acquire a fair job, decent profit, a decent home, each of us thanks to this money can provide accessible education and health care and each of us with pensioners, therefore, could have the right to a dignified age. We need to get off the road that led nowhere and get us nowhere, get on the road that leads somewhere, and whoever's on the right path will soon find companions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u50002	Thank you. The word has a minister, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u50003	In the end, I just wanted to thank all the MPs who stayed this long and who showed great desire and energy to further promote and explain the laws to our MPs and our viewers, but I have now recognised from the presentation of MP Risticevic some of their possible mistakes in the previous presentation. They refer to statistics. I did say the data relating to the data that I came up with, and it's about middle-class factors. I may not have been able to highlight all the performances of the tractor category I'm talking about. So we were recalculating pooled funds with incentives for essential production in tractors, fruit plantations, and it is true that I did not say that it was those tractors lower, or weaker categories, or categories whose price ranged from 15 to 30, 40,000 euros. As for the offering, I'm a flat-rate example of how we've increased the yield by only 10%. I may have made a mistake. If I remember correctly, I said the average corn yield this year was 5.7 tons per ha, that we increased 10%. These were orientational and offerings, i.e. orientational increases. So those 0.5 tonnes would be just 10% of the minimum increase in yield. All of this wasn't meant to be done correctly. The exact calculation can be carried out, but I simply wanted to point out the importance and importance of applying agrotechnical measures, the application of irrigation, and what all this could mean in total income, i.e. the total income of our farmers. In doing so, I'm building on myself again, if some of the data isn't accurate enough, but I'm saying again, my goal was to show a trend. Anyway, I want to thank everyone again. I'll see you Friday when we discuss the amendments. Thank you so much, everyone. It wasn't easy to last until ten o'clock tonight, I think we've all benefited from this, and we've been responsible for our viewers and our farmers, or our followers, in the area of environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-17-0.u50004	Thank you, Madam Minister. I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. I thank all the MPs. I thank Mrs. Minister and the members of her cabinet. Continuing Friday at 10.00 hours.
