ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51545	Mr. Chairman, I believe that you have injured Article 87 by your actions. A Rules of Procedure that speaks of days and working hours of the Assembly. As a rule, the Assembly is working on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays from 10.00 to 18.00, attitude 3 says after 18.00 hours if the president of the National Assembly informs no later than 16.00 hours that day, MPs of the reasons for the extension of work. You're resuming the session, which we started Friday at 5:00 p.m. and ended up sometime after midnight, early Saturday morning, scheduled for 17.00 a.m. on Sunday. Quite contrary to Article 87. Rules of Procedure. I was thinking and trying to figure out what the reason was, since last night, when we were discussing amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, I said it was a decision for you and your colleague Arsic, that you made that decision to work at night. This Rules of Procedure, I don't think it gives you that wide of rights. The only reason why I realized that we're starting at this time with this debate is because you like to watch Oscar and wait here with us...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51546	Mr. Djurisic, according to this article by which you have reached out, you must introduce me to your reasons, why you believe that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, not your thoughts, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51547	I introduce you to the reasons, you love Oscar, I give you Oscar for the greatest pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51548	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I would very much appreciate that you were present at the end of the debate two days ago and that, when I announced that the session will be held on Sunday at 1700 hours, then gave reasons why it would not be necessary for this session to be held on Sunday at 1700 hours, but since you were not present at the National Assembly, I am sorry, the other MPs have accepted the decision of the chairman. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51549	Mr. Chairman, Article 107, may be a surprise tonight, that next to Leonard di Capri, and you get Oscar, but really according to the Rules of Procedure, I think we are, or are obliged to, at least hear an explanation of why we start at five o'clock in the afternoon on Sunday. This is no longer a violation of the dignity of the MPs. I think it's even about overcoming the dignity of the MPs, the citizens, the public in the work, because we don't know if there'll be a direct transfer after six hours. Among other things, in addition to communicating with you, with ministry representatives, such important system laws, we also address the public, citizens, we also explain to the minister that she accepts the amendments, why she should accept amendments and citizens why this law is bad and our amendments are good. So you're devising, I mean, the public at work, you're trampling on the dignity of the MPs, because this is not a decent time to work. We can work, we'll work, it's not our first time, but at least give us an explanation of why we're working from five o'clock in the afternoon, when all the technical conditions have been met to work since 10.00 in the morning. It doesn't matter what Sunday is, we'll work, but we could start at 10.00 this morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51550	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. In part, the explanation is the same as I gave Mr. Djurisic, first of all, when I talk about Oscar, I think Serbian citizens appreciate if someone is present all the time for the duration of the National Assembly, and someone occasionally stops by and then accuses the MPs who sit in the hall all the time, why are they in the room. We believe that these laws are very important to the citizens of Serbia and we will discuss every day, if necessary, in the interests of the citizens, so I have no other explanation, except that I am also sorry that you were not present at the end of the debate and that at the time I said that on Sunday at 10.00, the follow-up at 10.00 gave its arguments why you do not think we should continue on Sunday at 17.00 hours. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. We move on to the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The names of the members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51551	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this amendment is one of the key amendments to the draft bill on employee salaries, on the pay system, although the word system, as I was saying in the principle debate, does not reflect the essence of this law at all. Our amendment envisioned what you are not, which is that this law deals with salaries in public enterprises, salaries in the National Bank and salaries of employees in public media services. The public sector, in the eyes of citizens, sometimes do everything that you listed in Article 1 because the concepts of civil servants, teachers, doctors and all others listed in the letter of this law are mixed, and if adopted in the future, they will have reduced salaries, but citizens experience public enterprises as part of that system and most often when it comes to injustices in the pay gaps for the same jobs being done, there are comparisons between salaries in public enterprises, or in the National Bank with salaries of officials or salaries in schools. No matter what you read your argument, in fact, the first sentence to which you explained the non-acceptation of amendments just explains all the senselessness of this law, because you said it was not accepted because the new system of public sector salaries was based on the work and nature of the affairs provided by the administration and the public service, which has so far been regulated by specific rules. So, there have been special rules so far. The fact that you haven't been able to introduce order for two years and now seven hundred days, since you promised to finish some work in a hundred days, come and talk about doing something, it's simply not true, because when we read this law and how we move on to further members, we'll see a bunch of sublegal acts and new laws, and we'll have one forest of regulations that won't introduce order into this area again. And the area that requires the highest order, which is the salaries in public enterprises, in the National Bank or in the media service, this law does not entangle and will obviously not entangle any law that this incompetent government can propose. The only good news for Serbian citizens is that these are the last days of this incompetent government, which we will have elections very soon and you and your government colleagues will no longer be able to propose such bad laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51552	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51553	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on the public sector wage system is probably the last system law to adopt this parliament. The very word systemically says that he must remain and this amendment should not be accepted. The reason for such a proposal for an amendment, and possibly the next amendment, is a deep misunderstanding of the role played by the state and the public sector. We are in a situation today to interfere essentially with two things. These two things stem from the right to regulate the functioning of the state and the right to ownership. You have a general state that practically regulates public enterprises that are there to function. My big surprise certainly is, when opposition MPs talk about the functioning of public enterprises using a four- or five-year-old functioning system. I am convinced that if we were to ask the directors, first of all, today's most mentioned public enterprises, which are controlling and which are owned by the Republic, first of all, EPS, "Srbigas", "The Railways", to realize that in these companies today the transformation process has started long ago. In the EPS, in "Srbigas", in "The Railways", there is simply a completely different mechanism of functioning compared to what we know. In recent months, the level of change has been so high that in the last 40 years these changes have not been so much. I know that few people can understand and understand that EPS, "Srbiagas", "The Railways" are moving from one stationary, territorial form of organisation to functional, that today in the EPS, in "Srbigas", in "The Railways", tens and hundreds of thousands of jobs have been changed, that wages and coefficients have been changed, and this speaks of changes that are essential and systematic. Today we regulate public sector functioning. In public enterprises, these changes are already happening. Of course, the essence of understanding the functioning of the state is completely different. I, with great surprise today, can wonder, what about the ideas of some political parties from the early 1990s and 20s? We're not today, and we couldn't hear the same principles then. At that time, some political parties advocated a liberal economy, a free market, the removal of the public sector and the regulation, we talked about public enterprises that would be completely different from those of trusted businesses. Today we continue to defend the system of functioning both in public enterprises and in the state administration, which cannot function, and it cannot function because it costs 241 billion, expenditures on employees, plus general government. That's 25.41% of the budget. I can understand that in the political debates we have different political views, but the mechanism of functioning in the public administration is identical in public enterprises and if they do not know, the salaries in public enterprises are reduced, there is a huge reform, there will be a surplus of employees, it is happening today, you can call the director of EPS Obradovic, director of Railways, director of "Srbiagas", all of this will tell you. You can call every employee in these companies, every employee from the level of director to the level of clerks, they will tell us – there are huge changes in public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51554	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51555	This particular discussion, I think, speaks in favour of the adoption of this amendment, because if 241 billion dinars are spent on public enterprises in Serbia's budget, then let us pass the law to settle it, not to leave it at will or trouble or knowledge or not the knowledge of the director of public enterprises. We've seen over the past four years of those who run public enterprises that it's not there. We saw in the National Bank that when a decision is made in the state to cut the salaries of 10%, pensions of 10, 15, 25%, in the National Bank are raised. I guess that's all the reasons why we as MPs here in the Assembly are going to pass a law that will limit such irrational behaviour in public enterprises, that they can't have public enterprises to have advisors, directors in public enterprises to have advisors who never come to work, but do other things in the state, and they have a car and a phone and everything else paid. So it's in our interest and if it's the idea of a system of laws, of a public sector wage system, then we think it's a place and a public enterprise, a National Bank and media services. Even this explanation for not accepting this amendment is practically all arguments for accepting the amendment. It can't be said that the National Bank operates under corporate market and banking rules. It's not the National Bank's job. The National Bank is not on the market and cannot operate under these principles. So all the things I could read here are exactly the reasons for accepting our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51556	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me when the first austerity measures began that the very MPs of the former regime supported this idea that one part of the public sector should not be touched, just them. Now, under the alleged care of pensioners, he spreads populist stories here because when someone has a result, he talks about the result, and when he's gone, he deals with populism. The former regime has given independent state institutions independence and pay and profit, under the pretext that if we do this by law in this way, we will affect their independence. We have nothing against it, not then, not now. Why do they now see one 180-degree turn? Let's see this engineer you're gonna pay 50 or 60 thousand dinars and send him to a mine or get him up on a backhoe or put him in the mud in surface nets. Let's see. Or put it next to the power generator, so I don't tell you what it's got and what kind of evaporation they've got. Let's split up some of those who make a living on the market and get themselves paid. Let's separate those debts you've made and which we have to pay from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the functioning of these public enterprises. You mention the National Bank. She was not exempt from the austerity measure, but the National Bank of the State didn't cost a dime, unlike when the governors were the ones you chose, so we had a reference interest rate of up to 16%. Someone doesn't know what the reference rate is. Let me explain. The reference interest rate is applied, plus the bank's margin for each credit paid by business banks, so the business banks sucked out capital and businesses and public enterprises and citizens and pensioners, from 16 to 4.25, as far as it is now. The euro rate has jumped 12 per cent to 15% year-on-year. Like I said, let's watch the results of someone's government. We have something to talk about when it comes to results, and they can only talk about demagogy. Public service, they've been subscribed to 400 dinars, the same way that 150 are now scheduled. Now it's 150 a lot, and 400 dinars weren't much when they took it. If the public service had been put into this law here, we would have talked to the following – we're violating the independence of the Public Service from the pre-election campaign, so that's what we'd be talking about, and that's their demagogy, and all they did for 12 years was demagogy. We found the state, the state administration, the public enterprises, the public media service, the People's Bank in chaos, and now they have some ex-post mind to do something. It seems to me that it's this ex-post mind that everything is broken and everything is what it was when they were in power, where they're just gonna talk about some better life that never came to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51558	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go, Dr. Bradich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, here is the debate on our first amendment to Article 1 where counterpart Marko Djurisic asked that public enterprises of the National Bank, the Public Media Service be placed under the authority of this law. What I would like to ask the Minister is that in the course of this debate, and based on what the trade unions in the Republic of Serbia and citizens who are directly affected by this law and whose fate and life, for the rest of their lives, the existence will depend financially on this law, obey the MPs and withdraw this law, and if it does not want to do so, I would ask the MPs of the assembly majority to consider the good of our amendments, to consider them, to accept them so that this law would do no great harm. I would remind all doctors that the position of the Union of Doctors and Pharmaceuticals of Serbia and the Serbian Health Union that this law should not be adopted. It's not nice that I, who come from the private sector, are fighting for the rights of our colleagues who work in the health sector, that's what you, distinguished colleagues, should do, because this bill of wages by doctors is as much disavowed and possibly even, I don't know, but we'll see, since everything here depends on sublegal acts and other laws, they may be reduced. So I ask you, on behalf of the colleagues you represent in this House, in this high house, to consider whether you will give your vote for this law. As for demagogy, I don't know how to call these discussions that I listen to all the time and from those who took down 310m euros a year ago and thus prevented new doctors from receiving money in the Health Fund and better quality treatment and possibly specialising in state spending to transfer to the pension fund in order to give less money out of the budget. If it's not demagogy, I don't know what demagogy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51560	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51561	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, as you can see, DOS is not changing, as it was in 2000, in 2016, demagogues, untrues, throwing dust in the eyes of the people, and all for petty party interests. The new DOS, which criticises us today, i.e. the former regime, had the obligation to pass this law more than 10 years ago, and they did not bring it only for one reason, because it did not suit them politically that there was a law that would allow employees in the public sector to receive, for the same degree of education and the same working experience, the same or approximately equal salary. It did not suit them for political reasons because they went to each election with one single goal – to win after the aftermath, regardless of what economic consequences this victory will have for the country. Now there has been one party led by Alexander Vukic, who openly says - we have to pass this law, we have to take some other reform procedures, and whether we are going to win or not, the people will decide, but that this law is necessary, it is. What the new DOS will not understand is that the public sector in this proposal is defined by the standards of the World Bank and the IMF. According to these standards, public enterprises, however illogical this seems, but public enterprises do not belong to the public sector. As Minister Sertic told you a few days ago, the public company and the company are, therefore, in addition to other characteristics, besides public enterprises, companies. Every public enterprise's goal is profit, profit. I do not understand the MPs of the new DOS who say that the central bank, i.e. the NBS, is not an institution that operates on the market. A simple man every day, whenever he hears about dinar fluctuations, says the National Bank intervened on the interbank foreign exchange market to preserve the course of the dinar. It's just amazing that in 2016 we hear from people who led the state until yesterday that NBS doesn't operate on the market. So, what market is he doing? Of course he does business and trades money, trade securities and, among other things, secures the stability of the domestic currency. Here's the thing is that the government of Alexander Vukic has the courage to propose one of these laws, and this congregation majority has the courage to adopt this law, and that you from the new DOS, from the old DOS, did not have the political courage to pass this law when you were in power. And you knew that such a law was necessary and you were told by the World Bank and the IMF that this law is necessary for every country that wants to move forward, every country that wants to distract people from hiring in the public sector and that in the public sector for the same level of education, for the same working experience they can expect the same salary, whether they work in this or that part of the public sector. In the principle debate, we could hear the former regime using the word "the jungle." You made that jungle, and now we're trying to get out of that jungle. So this is the public sector wage system law. We're editing the system now. The system can't be arranged overnight and the system can't be regulated by one law only. But this is a system-based, roof law that will allow us to finally have what the public sector employees have been looking for for for years, and what the former regime did not allow them to do for political reasons. Why would a graduate lawyer working in a state body have five times less salaries than a graduate lawyer in an authority, for example. AP Vojvodina? You made it possible. We are now trying to correct this injustice and we will correct that injustice. Researching why we are streamlining the public sector is top political hypocrisy. If you could see in the IMF report, reforms by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are said to be impressive and that the government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved incredible successes in the field of economic and social reforms. You're criticizing us because we're rationalizing the public sector, and you didn't have the courage to rationalize it, but you blew it up, but you brought an army of party personnel and you brought the state into a situation that had to reduce the number of employees and that burden fell on the government led by Aleksandar Vucic. You didn't have the guts to do that, we do. These reforms are difficult and these reforms are painful, but these reforms are beneficial and they will begin and have already started to produce results. You have this constant need to see nothing good about what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing. You see everything wrong. You see everything disastrous. Nothing's wrong. We ask you - why didn't you pass this law in your time in 2001, 2002, 2005, 2008, 2010? Who was stopping you? There's no jungle in the public sector? We heard one MP from the new DOS, and an MP from the old DOS, and an MP from the former regime who says yes, but you know the prime minister announced it in the first 100 days, here is the seven hundredth day, so in 12 years you failed to pass this law. Would you like me to remind you that the programme, the first, as you say, was formed by the democratic government in January 2001? What have you come up with from that concept? Nothing. Robbery privatisation, hundreds of thousands of people on the streets, tycunization of the country, all the negative things that happened to us. Now the Serbian government is trying to step by step to solve all these problems and we are solving these problems. This law was done to correct the longstanding injustices that existed in the public sector, and the public sector was defined in the way it appears to be by international standards. What I don't understand is that you who are the loudest for Europe, for the EU, you who are constantly giving us lessons that we are not really for the EU, and you are, in fact, lying to the people that we are for the EU, that we don't really know how it is going in the EU, that you are against those international standards and you are criticising us because we are those standards about what the public sector is, and what is not the public sector, we put in the draft law on the public sector pay system. So this law is reform law, the first step on the road for our state administration, for our local self-government, for our territorial autonomy to be more rational, more economical, more efficient than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51562	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51563	Right on the line, please, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51564	You have no right to a replica. On what grounds do you think you're right?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51565	He's been taking a direct turn and giving my statement on how much it took for this government to pass the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51566	He was talking about DOS. Now, if you think you're some new DOS or whatever...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51567	I think he's talking about some new DOS to talk about SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51568	If we don't get into the polemics, you don't have the right to a replica. If you'd like to follow the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51569	I can't speak by amendment, I'll get out of the Rules of Procedure if I say... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51570	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now had a chance to see what demagogy is about a colleague who spoke, from the former regime. So, nothing else... Here's the thing -- he says we've reduced the transfers to the Health Protection Fund by 310,000,000 euros and thus reduced salaries to employees in the health care system. Here's the biggest lie I've ever heard in my life. The biggest lie, 310.00,000 euros, was saved because of the new Public Procurement Act. So 310,000,000 euros from his colleagues and party friends each year stole from the Republic of Serbia's budget and he talks about taking care of the health care system. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Is this an amendment? Who's the thief here? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51572	Please, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51573	Sir, I'm talking about the amendment. They have the right to talk about the National Bank in their amendment. About that National Bank that sold 4.5 billion euros in foreign reserves from 2008 to 2012. About that National Bank, when the exchange rate from 78 jumped to 119,80. About that National Bank that robbed Serbian citizens through Agrobank 600,000 euros. About that National Bank that robbed through the "Employment Bank" AP Vojvodina of 400,000 euros. That's what you're talking about. You're talking about that sector to someone. If I were you, I'd really keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51574	Thank you. Since you've all had your fun and talked about something... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Who insulted whom? ) (Branka Karavidić, from the place: What does it look like? ) Mrs. Karavidic, you better not throw away and listen carefully to what the chairman is saying. I said, you're all in a circle. So, she spoke opposition and position and you all talked in circles and you didn't talk about the amendment. I didn't say "insult," I said "storage," and you listen a little more carefully. Don't throw it away, because it would be in line with the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Karavidic. Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51575	Dear Chairman, I point to the violation of Articles 107, 1st and 2nd and all other views. I'm really surprised again, I believed that at least tonight, when we talk about such an important law, your concentration will be so high that you respect the importance of this debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51576	Mr. Markovic, I would ask you to abandon the insult, and try to focus on your objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, why do you think I have violated the Rules of Procedure, so that I can hold a session. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51577	I have to explain my impression. When we hear insults that someone was stealing, like Mr. Arsic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51578	Mr. Markovic, you're an MP, you know the Rules of Procedure, at least you should know him. You know that at this point, you cannot replicate with the MPs, that you are looking for the reasons why you have reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can just point out to the chairman why you think he broke the Rules of Procedure, so I can give you an explanation of whether or not I am or not and continue the course of the session. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51579	I was just trying to say that my impression was that you were carefully listening to the debate and that you were registering when the gentleman mentioned that someone was stealing... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51580	Mr. Markovic, as you know, at that moment I broke up... (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is not true. Well, if you say it's not true. I warned Mr. Arsic that, whether there is an argument for it or not, I simply tried to avoid those words in tonight's debate and to use them some other time, somewhere else, so at that point I warned Mr. Arsic, and if you did not listen carefully, there is nothing I can do about it. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I finish? ) The assembly will declare itself in the voting day. The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, a replica. On what basis, Mr. Braddick? (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. Did you mention by the gentleman who spoke at that time? You have to be mentioned to get the right to a replica. You know the Rules of Procedure very well. How am I supposed to give you a basis for a replica from someone's exposure and you're not mentioned? (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: A colleague forgot what happened a year ago. I can't, because you think a colleague forgot what happened a year ago, to give you the right to a replica. I don't think you're serious, Mr. Braddick. We're moving on to another member. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I answered. ) Members of Parliament Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I answered the word. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51581	Dear Chairman, my application for the discussion was under the previous amendment, and I will talk about what the government is, that the unnatural and terrible from 2000 to 2012 have done for this country. The government abolished the sanctions we welcomed in 2000, and the governments returned Serbia to the UN...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51582	Mr. Djurishic, you understand that you need to talk about the amendment that is under discussion. (Marco Djurisic, from the site: They reduced corruption. Why did you take my word? ) Mr. Djurishic, I cannot give you my word for an amendment that is not the subject of debate. And that's not the problem, the problem is that you don't want the amendment that you want to talk about, you don't want to talk about that amendment. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: As you have given your word to Mr Martinovic, so give me now. ) Mr. Djurisic, I said that all the MPs who called for the debate spoke out of the amendment and that is what we end up with. We are now going back to the amendments in the interests of Serbian citizens and we are talking about amendments. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Who gives you this right? The Rules of Procedure, not to allow you all to speak outside the subject of the agenda. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why does it always break on us? I just said that you were all speaking both position and opposition and that we had to end it at some point. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Who was talking about what was done by 2012. I'd like to thank Mr. Djurishic. The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51583	I would once again, since this was a very important topic in the public domain, first of all, I think that MPs have had the opportunity to hear more than once, but also for the citizens of Serbia to point out once again that it is true that order has to be introduced in public enterprises, that public enterprises may be the biggest wound cancer in the public sector of Serbia, but as mentioned in the discussion, citizens may suffer the most from wages in some public enterprises. When unsuitable, it certainly hurts those who are employed in other parts of the public sector who have a much smaller salary. This government would be inconclusive if it only made it appear that it was solving a problem that would not actually solve the problem. They don't get paid in public enterprises by regulating these salaries by law. Try to regulate wages in public enterprises in this law takes us back to the central-plan system, not closer to the country we want to be. Salaries in public enterprises are arranged as anything else in public enterprises, better corporate governance. What it means is that companies have to be managed as if they are marketable beings who they are and have to get good managers and have to have excellent supervision and have principles of governance over which the state and citizens are supervised. Salaries in this law are arranged for those salaries that now and in the future must come from Serbia's budget. The truth is that sometimes public enterprises are subsidized, so it turns out that those high wages are paid there, but that's not the way it should be, and it has to be eliminated. These are non-market wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51584	The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51585	I think we have a major communication problem. I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You gave your word to a colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51586	Mr. Markovic, please, you've been speaking on behalf of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51587	But listen to me once.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51588	I'm asking you to get back to the agenda. This is a topic that is important to the citizens of Serbia. I ask you to speak according to the amendment that you have submitted, and let's finish reporting to the Rules of Procedure because it doesn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51589	Can you at least listen to two sentences?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51590	I can listen to you, but I'll have to take your time from your MP group, if you abuse the word of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51591	Why do I say we have a communication problem? So you gave me the word after the amendment, and then you gave the word to Mr. Djurisic. So I didn't even present my amendment, I didn't explain it. That's why I say it's very important that you listen to me. Before that, I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, and you wouldn't let me. If you're not in the Rules of Procedure, then I'm now asking for the time to come back and explain the amendment that I was about to explain before the minister took her word. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51592	Mr. Markovic, I have just, that you have listened very carefully to me, said that you have as an amendment promoter, I have given the word to Mr. Djorđa Kosanić, but as I have seen at this point that you are the amendment promoter, I first gave you the word as an amendment promoter to explain your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51593	A member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51594	Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the first amendment together. I gave my word, and I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51595	And the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure, it's
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51596	What for, Mr. Markovic? You called the Rules of Procedure to tell me that I should have given you the word after the amendment, and I gave you the word by amendment before that. I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51597	I reported to the Rules of Procedure at 107 because you're violating the dignity of the National Assembly for a whole other matter, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51598	Mr. Markovic, please, do you want to talk about your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51599	Yeah, but give me my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51600	I'll give you your time back, but just listen carefully, please. Here's Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51601	Dear Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, my colleagues from the DS Parliament Club and I have only submitted a lot of amendments to this bill because we believe this is a really bad bill proposal and that the atmosphere in which it is discussed is completely unacceptable, not only as regards the time in which it relates, but also the atmosphere in which we are talking. In view of the fate of 500,000 people who were once again threatened by this bill with their rights, we felt that we should endure as many amendments as possible. As for Article 1, we believe that the point 9 we have proposed here is very important, and where it is said that persons in working relations with other bodies and organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the province of Vojvodina and local administrations are covered by this law, we have indicated that there is one large space and service and people not covered by this law. We didn't know how best to express ourselves, but we suggested that the agencies, parties, various associations, various associations be covered by this point of Article 9 of this Law because we were witnesses that, above all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia planned for the 2016 budget 15 billion dinars directly intended for the recruitment of people who planned for temporary and occasional jobs in various agencies, associations established by various levels of the institutions of this state and not exactly covered by this law. You have examples that, say, the workers of "Junk" in Vranje received severances. The social programme is realised and then hundreds of people with a SNS membership card come into the same "Jumko" get some compensation, get certain jobs, responsibilities, etc. And we're getting into trouble whether they're covered by this law, which is why they're not covered here? Other things concern many people who are employed, say, in the EPS or in some other systems that work exclusively party tasks, especially in this campaign, so we thought that our contribution was just to make sure you don't forget all these people and to sort of put their profits into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51602	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51603	Here are the citizens of Serbia who could hear one amazing thing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51604	Please, Mr. Granny, take out your card for formality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51605	So the citizens of Serbia could now hear one amazing thing. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: you turned off the transmission. We shut down the transmission? Well, as far as I know, the RTS director isn't from the SNS. Oh, yeah? They're all ours now, aren't they? Now nobody's yours anymore? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51606	Please, Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Martinovic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, was entitled to the line for two minutes, as Mr. Markovic mentioned the SNS. Please respect the procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Respect that we have a TV transmission. It's your obligation under the Rules of Procedure. Well, we don't do RTS, Mr. Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic: You pay 80 million to have a TV broadcast.) ) The transmission will be and it will edit RTS. I really don't know at this point whether we have or we don't have a transmission, it's RTS's editorial policy, and I don't want to break down with you right now. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why do you pay? Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51607	I thank Mr. Becic, so as far as TV broadcasts are concerned, that practice to shut down TV transmissions existed during DOS, in 2003 when several months were gone, and that practice to transfer the session is interrupted, so that we have a delayed transmission, it was a massive phenomenon between 2008 and 2012. I don't mind it personally, I don't speak for TV, I speak for the truth. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Branish Seselj. Yes, I'm defending Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51608	Mr. Djurishic, please don't throw it away. If you're nervous, if you have certain problems, please don't throw them away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51609	I don't mind Mr. Becic. Mr. Becic, if I may just ask, I don't mind Mr. Djurisic throwing it at me at me at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51610	Mr. Martinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51611	It's even inspiring to me... So if I could just... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51612	Come in again. I need to establish order in the O.R., please re-apply, so you can return time so you can speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51614	Here's my check-in. I don't mind that I...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51615	Mr. Martinovic, re-apply so I can get the time back to the beginning. I can't go any different right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51616	I signed up. I thank Mr. Becic, I never mind that the MPs of DOS are getting me, I find it even inspiring, and what my colleague now said, Jovan Markovic is really for congregation yearbooks, because I, how can I tell you, have not heard more political wisdom. So, SNS imagine what a terrible thing she did, people with party books of SNS, imagine where they come to work, in "JUMKO" for sewing machines. Well, that's just amazing. But we did a big favor, but we provided a mass constituency. So that's how we worry, and so we hire our party activists to hire them at Jumko Vranje, to sew uniforms. Well, if we'd done what you did, I guess we'd have hired them by the ministries to cook coffee, to be drivers, to be porters. No, we, imagine what a terrible thing we did, hired people at JUMKO to sew uniforms for the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, because you, I guess, are against the Serbian Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, well, to sew uniforms for the army of the Republic of Serbia, which you have clearly devastated. Do you mind? What did we launch "JUMKO" and what do you say we hired our party members in "JUMKO" for sewing machines? Well, if we'd guided by your logic, now all those people would be porters, cleaners, working on the phone, etc. We want the exact opposite, that people work in the real sector, to restore production where you shut it down. "JUMKO" who was a world-renowned company, you led to the fact that sewing machines were carried out from that company...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51617	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51618	... Now this company is being launched thanks to this government and it bothers you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51619	I thank Mr. Martinovic. The word has a folk MP mg Jovan Markovic, a replica to Mr Martinovic's exposure. You're mentioned by name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51620	Well, it's obvious that Mr. Martinovic didn't follow my exposure well, and he didn't hear me say that the problem was precisely that a huge number of people in JUMKO got a social programme, they got severances, and then according to the conditions that went home, signed certain agreements, and that was the reality that was several months ago. Then it is because people are forced not to have a job and precisely because the SNS has a very important goal to win power in Vranje after many years, to take power from the SNS coalition partners, then you decided that in the JUMKO both in Vranj and in many other places thanks to your staff and your policy you invite people who have a SNS membership card to work in the same jobs where they worked. It's not a problem here if people should be hired. Of course it's necessary and of course it's good, but it's about neglecting tens of thousands of people who, because of your policy in Vranje, have been out of work for the last two, three years. These same people don't have the same rights as your party members do. That's what's the real problem. The problem is that 15 billion dinars, which you have allocated to the RS budget, have been moderated into such programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51621	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica of Mr. Markovic's exposure. You're mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51622	If it is a sin to start production in "JUMKO" then I admit it is a great sin of government led by Aleksandar Vukic. If it's a sin to start production in a giant which DS systematically robbed, so now this giant is re-sealing uniforms for Serbian police and the Serbian army, then I really admit it's a sin. Tell me, Mr. Markovic, what tens of thousands of people in Vranj have we left out of work? Serbian Progressive Party? You need to listen to what you're saying. It's not enough just to hate SNS and Alexander Vukic. You have to reason with some argument, some facts. You have to know, for example. What is the situation in Vranj, what is the situation in some other parts of Serbia, and what does SNS have to do with the fact that "JUMKO" has been ruined since 2000 and back here? Thanks to the Ministry of Industry's efforts above all, we have managed to launch production in "JUMKO" and I want to thank all people who work in "JUMKO" safe, hard, dedicated, sacrificed every day, and that again from Vranj we have uniforms for the Serbian military and police, and we do not have to import from your time neither do I know which other countries. It's a logic you can't understand. We want to produce in our Serbia, and you wanted to import everything and then you shut down one giant at a time. Such enterprises as "JUMKO" were all over Serbia. You've all been locked up alive. You've closed everything alive and left people on the street, and now that the Serbian government is starting production in "JUMKO", when it starts production in another giant, you say -- but that's where you hire your party buddies.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51623	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51624	As far as I'm concerned, let the people and members of the DS just get to work. No one employs Jumko in party membership. We hire anyone who wants to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51625	Mr. Martinovic, time's up. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Markovic, you're not mentioned now. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I was not mentioned. He directly mentioned me by name and last name. I'm sorry, there's a little noise in the O.R., so maybe I don't hear anything as chairman. Believe me, there's a very big jam in the O.R., and if you get up and step away from the microphone, there's something we can't hear. So if you think, if you say you're mentioned in Mr. Martinovic's statement by name and last name, I'll give you the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51626	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Sir, my colleague Martinović, I know very well the opportunities in Serbia and I know very well the opportunities in southern Serbia, and I am very familiar with the intention of the SNS to take over power both in Vranje and in all other municipalities, and I am very familiar with all the activities that your colleagues from the ministry have to do in parallel with these businesses to allegedly improve the economy of Vranja and South Serbia and if they have very suspicious biography, suspiciously completed colleges, etc., about this we do not want to Polish, but it is also very important that the concept that you have criticised DS you should know that Mr Sutanovac at the time when he was Minister of Defence has just connected his decisions with the business "JUMKO" and the making of equipment, etc. for the Department of Defense. Mr. Ciric also did it as regards "Post". People know that both in Vranje and in the environment, they know how much this concept was based on some normal, healthy and realistic basis and how respected all people were, not just DS members in these jobs. What's the problem here and what I want to point out in particular is this particular fact, Madam Minister, that you may have overlooked that there are such things as are happening in Serbia, that there is an army of people employed in front of the SNS, who are working on certain jobs that are exclusively related to the party interest. Whether it's writing comments, whether it's another way of promoting the party's policy, it doesn't matter, but there are a number of people who, under quotes, have received party jobs because of some business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51627	Thank you. Mr. Martinovic, you're not mentioned now. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: SNS is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51628	Looks like he'll be back in fashion with that slogan - DOS is the worst, he was and he stayed. So here's what the DOS program looks like. Now it's bad when you open Jumko. Now it's bad when you rebuild production in a giant that this same DOS robbed. Now Serbian citizens can actually see what awaits them if the new DOS wins again. First, we know who will be prime minister of the government if DOS wins. It's a man who was already prime minister in 2003, after a very unfortunate and tragic event. And they're expected again by the same DOS policy. Unlike the SNS policy, which implies the opening of new jobs in the economy, they are expected to see what they saw and what they experienced in their skin when they had that old DOS in power since 2000. This means closing firms in the real sector, losing their jobs, not having a salary, not enjoying any economic and social rights and, of course, the accumulation of capital and the accumulation of all possible privileges in the hands of several DOS individuals. We saw it all in 2000, 2001, 2002. 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, this has all been seen. But it's good, Mr. Markovic, that you reminded the citizens of Serbia that you think you rule if you possibly win the upcoming elections. So now we hear, dear citizens of Serbia, DOS will be the same as it was until 2012. Close it, cancel your jobs, don't pay your salary, but therefore enable Mr. Sutanovac to make several apartments on Vračar, etc. So DOS is the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51629	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Why do you think now, Mr. Markovic? He mentioned DOS. [[Jovan Markovic, from the scene: he mentioned me again. You don't hear well?]] (Jovan Markovic, from the post: He just told Mr Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51630	Mr. Chairman, I really think it's time for you to listen carefully to what's being said and not waste your time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51631	Mr. Risticevic, you may rightly object, but you know that the replica has an advantage. I apologize to all MPs who are patiently waiting to receive the word, for we have two MPs who want to mention each other, so that they have the right to reply in replicas. I can't do anything about it. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51632	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51633	Go on, Mr. Markovic, I'll count the time I've used.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51634	The citizens of southern Serbia know well what the situation was in 2007, 2008 and 2009 and how much Mr. Dragan Sutanovac had decided to include in the work of Jumko and some other companies in Vranja together as partners in the defence ministry's work helped the region, i.e. how much Goran Ciric also helped those people with the contracts he made between Jumka and Post. What is here all the time on the scene, Mr. Chairman, is an attempt to conceal the concept and intention to hire about 30,000 dinars a month in an election campaign, under some cloak and excuse that it is employment. This is about making use of the difficult situation, primarily the material position of the citizens of Vranj and the south of Serbia for political purposes. And every attempt by Mr. Martinovic to go back in time and talk about us not being for new jobs and hiring people is simply irrelevant. People in Vranje and people in southern Serbia know well what representatives and SNS co-ordinators are doing for the economy in the area, how much businesses have destroyed, how many able-bodied people have removed from the director's post.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51635	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Time's up. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: You did not give me back the time you took. How could I not give it to you? Thirty seconds you've spoken more. Don't, Mr. Markovic, it's not right. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51636	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after seven applications, I understand the animosity of the chairman towards me, but finally I get the word. It's good not to apply it to these right. If you're already talking about DOS, I was there to win, not to cross the censorship. But let me get back to the subject. We're talking public services, public services. A colleague said that he is from the private sector fighting for the public sector. This colleague was the head of the RFO in Nis, a civil servant. He was the director of the RFO in Nis. Speaking of membership cards, in 2013, and they exist in "Belle Amie" and video records, he was on sick leave. The director of the RFO took sick leave. You know what he was doing while he was sick, when we were talking about membership cards and he was a member of the party of the former regime, he wasn't working at Jumka, he was the director of the RFO in Nis? You know what he was doing back then? He gave a speech at a party rally. When he was fired for being able to give a speech at a party meeting during his stay, and he was unable to do a job he was set up as a party member, when he was fired, then sued, complained, and most likely through judges from his party slowed down and won. But that's not all. He also said he's in the private sector fighting for the public. From which private, when was he admitted to permanent work in the Serbian Parliament on 18 April 2014? If working in the Serbian Parliament isn't a public job, then I don't know what it is. If he says he works in the private sector, then he thinks the National Assembly is private, his. I thought she was a folk, belongs to everyone, belongs to the people. But, see, I also found out that he's the only one who works in the private sector that stands for it, but he's been reported to work in the National Assembly. One more thing. The viewers say so -- while he was the head of the RFO, it did not bother him to work privately in a margin office, according to Nisli. Those of Nisa know better than I do. And now, when you compare it to "Jukka", then you get the right picture of who ruled this country and what a disgrace and shame it was for 12 years, and in Vojvodina for 16 years. Also, it was said that someone in the health care took 310 million. No, he didn't take it, we stopped it from being taken. Instead of 21 board members, he's now seven. The only savings on drugs in 2015 was 3.6 billion, these drugs were paid less than in 2012, although time should have been more expensive. They were cheaper for 30m euros. Well, no one has taken it, but has prevented it, and with the will of the citizens this coalition has come to power, has not taken it, but has prevented the former regime's party from taking only 30 million drugs in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51637	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. On what basis, Mr. Braddick? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: He mentioned me. Nobody mentioned you, Mr. Bradich. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: He said – Director of the Fund. Well, do you know how long it's been since 1946 to today's fund manager? If you break the Rules of Procedure, I will have to take away your MP group. Here you go. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51638	Mr. Becic, it's a shame, it's a serious shame to let...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51639	What member, Mr. Braddick?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51640	It's a shame to lie facelessly to a man who (Blagoje Bradic: It is a disgrace in this home. [[off microphone]] This behavior is in some's interest to serve in this room, it's an unworthy MP. It's a shame in this home. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51641	Well, it's unworthy that you're talking like this right now. You're a little upset, Mr. Braddick. Do you think someone's exposure is wrong? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Yes, he lies like a dog. Let's get it on the record. Mr. Bradiche, how are you acting, Mr. Bradiche? So, how are you acting in the National Assembly? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: How should I behave? Mr. Braddick, I can't do anything if you recognize yourself there. You are not mentioned in the presentation of Mr. Risticevic. He was talking about some fund manager, from 1946 to today there were hundreds of fund directors. How do I know which director it is? Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51642	Article 106 and Article 107, in particular Article 107. - a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. If you haven't heard, fellow MPs have heard that my colleague spoke to me, or told me about my speech to lie like a dog. Now imagine, I'm offering that everything I said to check out, and even if I was telling the truth, it doesn't give anyone the right to insult the previous speaker with those words. That's what it says about the culture of those who threw those words out, or use them, they didn't throw them out of use, they just threw them out of their mouths. Not everyone can hurt you. Not everyone's worth paying attention to. They have the right to disrespect us, but we have the right to oppose anyone who disrespects us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51643	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51644	Hold on. If you accept a dog, he won't bite you and that's the difference between a dog and some people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51645	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You can't win, Mr. Djurishic, straight to the Rules of Procedure. , (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why? Because you now entered the O.R. and inserted the card, you did not attend the debate. You can't find out outside the gym that the Rules of Procedure have been broken. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I can. You give me your word. ) Well, unfortunately, how do you think you're going to get into the O.R. right now, not a problem, I'm going to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but how do you think you're going to get into the O.R. at this point and have an argument to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I will explain.) It's okay. I have to explain to the speaker who pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Ristichevich. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: he does not listen to you at all.) Well, it's better that he doesn't listen to me than you do that you throw away. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Here, give me your word.) ) According to the Rules of Procedure, it is the right of MPs to listen, but, according to the Rules of Procedure, the right of MPs is not to throw away, Mr Djurisic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, it is. Mr. Risticevic, do you want an explanation? No, I don't. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51646	The Honorable Chairman, in two years of this term, countless times, it has happened that the chairman is replacing himself with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51647	A member, Mr. Djurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51648	Article 104 that the MP was offended by another MP who was not a member of the same parliamentary group. So this is where MP Risticevic has the manner of expressing himself insolently about fellow opposition MPs, which in the past two years has caused the usual enthusiasm of MPs of the ruling coalition, the frenetic applause. I think it's the best picture of the real SNS and the real values you stand for. No Europe, no decency, no honesty...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51649	Mr. Djurishic, are you going to tell the reasons for the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51650	The breach of the Rules of Procedure is that you did not give the right to the replica of your colleague Bradic, who was offended by being spoken of as someone who stole, who abused his function while he was on it. That's one less that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51651	Mr. Djurishic, I have to interrupt. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I don't know why. Well, because you're not telling the truth, Mr. Gursich. No – you must, but – you can, you can press the button. That's right. Mr. Djurishic, you're not telling the truth, and I can say it right now. You now, at this moment, have entered the O.R. and better than all MPs, you know what was going on here in the exhibition of Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Risticevic never mentioned Mr. Bradic's name for a moment. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Because he is a coward so he must not, he drew it. Here, you say it now - because he's a coward so he can't. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, that's right. ) Now, I don't understand you, you say that Mr. Risticevic is a coward and must not and should not have mentioned the name of Mr. Bradic, and I should have given Mr. Bradic a replica of what you claim to be mentioned. I don't understand anything. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not say that he was mentioned, but that he insulted him. Mr. Djurishich, you're still throwing. I'm begging you, I'm listening. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, you turned off the microphone for me. ) I listened to you and I said that Mr. Risticevic did not mention Mr. Bradic for a moment. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: he insulted him. ) He mentioned the director of the RFO in Nis. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: He made it very clear. ) So if you know it is Mr. Bradic and Mr. Rističević's exposure that he is Dr. Bradic, I am not. I don't think it's Dr. Bradic, after Mr. Risticevic's exposure. I didn't recognize Dr. Bradic here. If you recognized him, if you recognized Mr. Bradic, that he was stealing and doing what the speaker was saying, I can't do anything there, it's your problem, not mine. I didn't recognize Mr. Bradic here, and I couldn't give him a replica on that basis, because his name and last name were not mentioned. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: That is your problem. You had to give him your word. Because, unfortunately, I didn't recognize Mr. Bradic in those words. Since you are a colleague and you know Mr. Bradic and you have recognized him, you now consider me to have broken the Rules of Procedure because I did not give Mr. Bradic a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That's right. Now, I'm telling you that I didn't recognize him in that presentation, and for that reason I couldn't give him a replica, because it's my right, discretionary right of the chairman. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: It is another thing, that is your right, I say it is not your right. So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51652	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Article 107(1), which speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. I asked in one of these members of the Rules of Procedure whether there was an appointment concerning the infringement of the intelligence of the MPs and the integrity of the MPs, I did not find it. I think that, despite all the explanations you have just made, you have violated Mr. Bradic's right to explain your position, that, on the same basis as Mr. Risticevic, although not directly mentioned, you have given the right to a two-minute replica and you have seen how much you have hurt Mr. Bradic and how much you have caused his emotional reaction with your attitude. If it's not enough for you to at least refrain from telling Mr. Risticevic, on the same basis that you prevented Mr. Babic from speaking, to prevent him, too, you continue to convince us all here that you don't believe in. [[Marian Risticevic, from the place: What replica did I get?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51653	Mr. Markovic, it's just proof that you don't follow the course of the session. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: How am I not following? Let me, you spoke, I listened to you, let me say something. Mr. Markovic, be parliamentary, allow me, when you are done, to say one sentence now. Will you allow it? Do not follow the course of the session because Mr. Risticevic did not get the right to the replica, but he got the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, as you have now received. So, he got the word based on his report on his injury to the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Mr Bradic sought for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bradic didn't ask. Mr. Bradic asked for the right to replication. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I gave the management to Bradic the Rules of Procedure and he called for a member. Don't. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Don't what? ) Please don't, we'll look for notes, where we'll see that Mr. Bradic asked for the right to the replica because he believes he was mentioned in Mr. Rističević's presentation. You're insecure, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I am unserious. Mr. Markovic, but you're right, I broke the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to all the MPs why I broke the Rules of Procedure, why I did not punish Mr Bradic, when he called one of the MPs, he said a sentence – he lies like a dog. At that point in time, I should have punished Mr. Bradic and given him a warning. I didn't do it, you're right to break the Rules of Procedure, and I apologize to all MPs why I didn't respond to the Rules of Procedure and punish Mr Bradic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Best to kick us all out.) I thank you. The word is from the People's MP Mr. Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51654	Mr. Becic, I don't accept an apology, but let me tell you a few things, Article 27. We agreed at the beginning that it was two very important laws, system laws. First we agreed, we didn't get out of the O.R. to talk on Sunday, five o'clock in the afternoon. We want to have a dialogue, so don't punish us for it. If you are already allowing the MPs of the government to address the MPs of the opposition in such an offensive manner, then at least let them explain it to you eventually, or to hurt the Rules of Procedure, or the replica of the opposition MPs. That's the first thing. The second thing is, what I said was happening at the beginning of this session. They'll interrupt the TV broadcast, for 80 million dinars as much as we pay for TV transmissions, we can at least get an explanation or tell us when the transmission will be restored, because here, among other things, we're citizens, not for each other and we're talking to them. So I ask you to think about it and put order in dialogue and debate between the opposition's MPs and others to get an explanation and answer when the direct TV broadcast will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51655	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. You have to understand that I can't, as chairman, establish order if the MPs don't want it. So MPs on one side and on the other must understand that these are important laws for Serbian citizens, that they respect that and that they are talking about laws, about amendments that are the subject of debate. That's where we get along completely. So, I'm asking the MPs and on the one hand, we're the chairman very much in the mood to work, but we need to have the cooperation of your MPs. If you talk about the subject, and if you talk about the amendments that are the subject of debate. We just give the word, we don't have to get involved in the debate at all. I ask you to do so and believe that I will not engage in a debate with any gesture, so I fully support you here. As far as your second question is concerned, I'd like as much as you do to know as chairman when, for what reason and why we don't have at this point of transmission, but that's again, believe me, RTS's editorial policy. I expect him to get a notice, why at this point there's no transmission, and when he does, as soon as I get it I won't hide it from you, at the same time I'll tell you, but certainly, what you know, the transmission will be just what's being postponed at this point. At some point, RTS is going to get involved and that from the beginning, I can't say it, because like you don't know at this point, we didn't get a notice from RTS that it's going to follow the course of today's session. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. I ask once again that we return to the amendment to Article 1 and discuss this amendment. The word is from the MP Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51656	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members of 103 and Article 107, and members of 108, 109, 110, who require that, after some insults, some measures be imposed, but that we go in order. We brought up, we need to prove our education in conflict with the unsupervised. So the expressions that I'm being referred to - lies like a dog, and instead of following an apology, the man who's the boss of that group, I get a new insult, he says - he's a coward. I wasn't... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Coward than what. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51657	Please, Mr. Gursich. You've said it a few times.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51658	I haven't been able to show my cowardice even while I was in DOS, have I, Mr. Martinovic? So I won't show it now, I haven't even shown it when they were in power, and what would you show it now when they're in opposition. Courage is not a lack of fear and action despite fear. Despite the great insults in this House, despite the physical threats expressed here from that list of electoral and similar ones. I remain worthy. They should know, Mr. Chairman, that a wise man is hard to insult. A wise man with equal dignity receives and praises, receives and sorrows, and I will go a step further, and I will receive with the same dignity and calmness and insults that they try to guide me, for they can insult me only better, not worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51659	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51660	An amendment to which it is trying to introduce public enterprises and agencies and to listen to arguments why it shouldn't. And I have a full understanding of Minister Kori Udovici's argument with regret that I don't already have the support for dialogue on exactly what she's exchanged here as information. About the time needed to really manage public enterprises properly, about the time when this law will come and about the dissatisfaction that everyone in Serbia will know that public enterprises are getting subsidies, that money is coming from the budget, but that they are not in this law. If you leave insufficient explanations to people, you will have resistance where we should have support for public sector reform. And that is why I support both this amendment and the previous one submitted by counterpart Marko Djurisic and MPs. On the other hand, the argument by the ruling Serbian Radical Party's representatives is that companies have moved from stationary to functional management, that electricity generators are polluting, that these are very difficult conditions and that 240 billion go for public enterprises, that this is an argument not to be public enterprises. That part is not good, the lack of dialogues shown by representatives of the Serbian Radical Party here in the Assembly are such as to prevent them from really...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51661	Mrs. Comic, if you didn't know, there are no Serbian Radical Party MPs in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51662	Well, they do, I guess. Then it's a lapus.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51663	Since you keep talking about it. If that's what it looks like to you, I ask you to respect the parliamentary groups and not to mention the opposition parties. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: What is then said about DOS. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51664	Yeah, interesting. Yes, I have "lapsus lingvee" because I see "lapsus mentis" in communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51665	Excuse me, are you doing this on purpose? Then I apologize if I'd known you were doing this on purpose I wouldn't have interrupted you. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51666	No, on purpose, "lapsus lingve" is a language error, it's not intentional, how can I tell you, but good. I am sorry that the minister will not have, in essence, the support of the dialogue in the Chamber of Serious Affairs that this law implies, because the ruling majority of SNS MPs do not want to talk about what this law will produce as a consequence, but that we entertain everything by violent communication. That's fine, but it's no use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51667	Thank you. Replica, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51668	I don't exactly believe in coincidences, that Serbian Radical, Serbian Advanced... I'm not ashamed of being in the Serbian Radical Party, I've said it more than once, and no one can pass it on to me, nor can I hide it, nor can I think of it. (Alexander Martinovic, now: But that they were in DOS, and it cannot be hidden. Like you can't hide that you were in DOS and that you're not very proud of the results, but you stick to the felt while DOS was an opposition. I say, when the opposition, they promise one thing, but they count what they're doing while they're in power, so the state was in charge of public enterprises, as cheap as they could be, as you sold the social sector. Don't be surprised. No one said anything was polluting here, but working conditions in some thermal energy system aren't that simple and easy for people. If you want to even it out with the office, I'd like you to show me how, I'd love to. I'd like you to see what it looks like once, to leave the MPs' benches, to go to some surface dig, fly, and see that it's much warmer there than on the rest of the territory, and in the fall you have to bathe in the mud that's up to your waist, and in winter, to see how you're going to get down to that surface dig, but these are workers in a public company called EPS. It was next for sale, after Telecom in 2011, and then you would sell the whole of Serbia to tycoons. This SRS that helped you survive in 2012 was unable to help you. The Serbian Progressive Party then came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51669	Unfortunately, Mr. Nikolic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group, none of your MPs are listening, so your request to return to the agenda had anything to do with the result. We only had a challenged replica and now we're going back to the replicas. Unfortunately, I wish your MP had listened to you. Mrs. Comic, on what basis do you want? (Gordana Comić, now: After the amendment. Then you have to wait, since we have a lot of reports. The word is made by MP Goran Kovacevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51670	I will briefly, in the discussion for a long time implement one fact that 241 billion dinars are from the budget, to be allocated to public sector employees' salaries. I fully understand a group of MPs who don't have to remember the budget, which was only two months ago, but I have to correct them. Budget staff expenditure concerns expenditure on the general government, not public sector employees. So that's the point. If you don't understand, I can totally figure it out, you forgot. So we don't pay 251 billion out of the budget for employees' salaries in public enterprises, and if you say railways, that's 17 billion. Simply, for better understanding, employees of public enterprises from the employee spending budgets are not getting a single dollar, they are getting subsidies companies, which they are using them for, but it's not 241 billion, it's 17 billion. The state of Serbia is a set of states and public enterprises are very bad today and we fully agree with the minister there. We are in the process of change in public enterprises, but you forget to talk about the whole range of public enterprises, such as public enterprises...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51671	Mr. Kovacevic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51672	Yes, the amendment, public enterprises at the bar, employees of public enterprises in the local, public and municipal enterprises. So when you talk about the amendment to Article 1 and the employees of public enterprises and the revenues they receive from the budget, you have to be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51673	By amendment, Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51674	I quoted the argument of representatives of the ruling coalition and the opposition and you can check in the stenogram, so that I can illustrate how difficult the lack of arguments will be for the minister and that's all my intervention and nothing more and nothing less. Whether or not there will be support in the public sector, and the minister better than all of us knows how much support you need in the public sector, so that this really next year, as much as I have against solutions, lives and works, depends on whether people will understand what and why you do not accept to be a public firm of agencies and why we are considering such a classification here? Everything I've quoted, it's in a stenogram, and it's said by fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51675	Replica, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51676	I'd just like to underline that the agencies are involved in the law, that's under one. Two, I heard your argument that well, maybe we're right in theory, but in practice it's such a problem that we don't solve public enterprises and I'm going back to it again, because it would be wrong to regulate wages in public enterprises. It would not lead to correcting injustice, but to waste the limited capacity that exists in the administration, which we have to use right now to go to the core of the problem, and the core of the problem is in better control of the management of public enterprises and in a better organisation and corporate governance of businesses. There is a solution and energy needs to be invested, and this government is doing it and it is very well known that there are special programmes for all large public enterprises, and I have to say to the public that in the vast majority, if they look at statistics in smaller public enterprises, wages are not like that, i.e. wage and economy and public sector, we are talking about those public enterprises that the government has an organization plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51677	The word has been changed, just to see, before you heard from Mr. Markovic, but you have the advantage of being deputy head of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51678	We've heard what's wrong and what's right. Is corporateization of public enterprises correct? Is the professionalization of public enterprises correct? And if it were, you're partly right. What happened in 2012? Do we have the corporateization and professionalization of public enterprises? You've been Minister since 2012. My associates listed your 27 interviews in which you are talking about the professionalization of public enterprises, corporateisation, pay arrangements, and four years already talking about it. Then, in the night session, a month before the election, we talk that way. That's why we're submitting amendments right now, because nothing's happening, four years of your ministry's results are nothing. We are submitting amendments just so we can talk about this and finally start that topic. If you don't agree, say you don't agree, but let us explain why we think the amendments are good and that's the first thing. The second thing, under one pretext of reform, for example, health care will be laid off by a large number of people, and in the Health House in Soko Banja five workers will be fired, and then those doctors who remain in the campaign will have to conduct general checks on shops, by teachers, by sheds, and is that public sector reform? No, it's not, of course. So consider and let's talk a little bit about our amendments, because it'll be better for everyone, especially the public sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51679	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51680	Dear Minister, we have repeatedly pointed out here in parliament how high the level is, above all, these public frauds in the media. The Serbian Progressive Party has brought forward several years earlier, primarily at the expense of the Democratic Party and one of the important topics was the abolition of agencies. I'm glad that after a number of dilemmas that, first of all, MPs here had defended that position, you now confirmed that the agencies should work, that you would not eliminate the agencies, that the concept was not so bad, that it was that only two agencies were abolished for all four or five years, as you were in power, which confirms that it wasn't so bad. So, I had no other way but to point out that maybe the agencies didn't put you in, but you confirmed it with your attitude and statement. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51681	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Mr. Eagle.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's going to be an amendment, of course, and I'm calling for it not to be accepted, of course. What's the big deal here? So literally everything a man gets. We are still on the amendment to Article 1 point 9), the well-known promoters. All this debate that we're listening to, that keeps going in the direction of some public enterprises, etc., has nothing to do with the content of this. Where are the public enterprises here? Where did the promoter or anyone on the other side who kept talking about them here put one single proposal on the subject of this law and public enterprises? Nowhere. Just some stories about eradicating and "phenomenal", so-called, because we mentioned them today, "phenomenal suggestions" like this. What exactly is the subject of this proposal, referring to point 9, Article 1? It explains who is employed in the public sector within the meaning of this law. There, the promoter suggests that they be persons in a working relationship, parties' associations and associations. What does it have to do with associations of citizens, parties, associations where people join themselves on a voluntary basis with the public sector, in terms of this law or in any sense. What's this for? Well, more than obvious, as a certain cover to the motion that he's been talking today about the parties he's been doing, which unfortunately has been followed by some other people on the other side, but these ladies and gentlemen are not only inconclusive, it doesn't make any sense. Since the question of some TV transmission has also been mentioned, I have no idea, sir, preside over whether we are in any direct transmission, but believe me, anyone on this side of the hall could only answer that the whole of Serbia, if possible in direct transmission, sees what again under the quotes of phenomenal suggestions we listen to today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51683	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51684	How about a replica? He mentioned me as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51685	Yes, but Mr. Markovic, the amendments were proposed by Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac. I can't interpret which of the promoters Mr. Orlic mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51686	Just don't take my time. I see that Mr. Orlic read the amendment very carefully, which is very good, but I am sorry that he was not in the first part of the presentation where I explained the motives for which I made this proposal. I just said that a number of associations, parties, associations, etc., in the past three, four years, hiring people from the Serbian Progressive Party with a membership card of the Serbian Progressive Party, in some way entered a system that works...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51687	Mr. Markovic, you can't use the reply to the replica amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51688	... which is not covered by this law. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51689	It's not worth it, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, at once): What am I not? I didn't what? Because now you're using time by amendment for Mr. Orlic's replica... (Jovan Markovic, now: I talk to a man. You mentioned Mr. Orlic. Mr. Orlic has now responded to the replica, because you mentioned him and now again, we are not talking about the law, but we are going back to replicas. It's really incorrect of you, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, now: I am essentially explaining the amendments... Well, you can't do this the way you're going to do the replicas. You didn't mention the amendment in any word. (Jovan Markovic, now: How? You have not mentioned the amendment in one word. (Jovan Markovic, now: As I am not, there is the association, the association... It's not worth it to Mr. Markovic with you to convince myself. I won't give you a replica, Mr. Orlic, because I think we should go back and talk about the laws. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radmilo Kostic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 2nd amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51690	I'll use five minutes. Article 2 deals with what is the right to pay and other receipts and defines, employees exercise the right to pay, increased salary, salary compensation, fees and other receipts, etc., of course it follows from the 1st member who defines the subject and contents of the law and one and the other member. This other authentic evidence is that this law is bad, that this law does not bring any improvement in the area of the public sector, that it does not achieve any stated objective that was part of the bill's adoption campaign, or part of the reasoning given. It is explained that the area is now defined by basic law and special laws. So the previous law was not enough, but there were also special laws. And in this law that's on the agenda today, you predict the mass of special laws. Therefore, nothing new is defined there. The public sector is not defined properly. A moment ago, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister said that public enterprises are the worst part of the public sector or such a formulation, which apparently spoke of public enterprises as part of the public sector, in Article 1, so Article 2 which is the subject of our amendment does not mention public enterprises as part of the public sector. Then the question is, why this law? It is said in the campaign that this law corrects injustices, that it better regulates the area, there is no professional body, nor any union, nor any independent expert, nor any option that gives support to such an opinion. I have here in front of me the opinion of the Guardian of the Citizens on almost six sides, which speaks negatively of this law and realizes that in the end, looking at all these objections, and above all, the draft of the law, is not sufficiently clear, because work on its construction needs to be continued. In particular, there is no reason for such a law, a system law, which you say needs to bring order into this area, that it is pushed over the weekend at night sessions, especially when it comes to the law that is system law, means, which requires a serious analysis and a serious discussion, and especially because the law enters into force under your proposal of the law on 1 January of the following year, and a good part of the law enters into force on 1 January 2018 and is foreseen for the adoption of a mass of special laws. So, the need for quick adoption of this law absolutely doesn't stand, there's no reason to doubt it. The law is contradictory from members to members, since we have submitted amendments to all members, there will be an opportunity to point this to concrete examples, but let's say the question of Article 8 or Article 9 where Article 8 is said to be – that the value of all the requirements enters the coefficient for this law. Then Article 9 provides exceptions that are out of place, if something is all, there can be nothing over it. (Alexander Martinovic, now: I understand that the man is prime minister, but he has to talk about the agenda point. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51691	Mr. Martinovic, allow Mr. Zivkovic, I understand that Mr. Zivkovic is not talking about the subject, but please use his seven minutes. Please, look at it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51692	I'm asking you to come back on the subject, because if anyone has listened very carefully to these two hours of debate, I'm probably the first person to touch any topic that has anything to do with this law. Since "Jumko" is hardly a public sector and a public enterprise, public administration and administration, and "Jumko" was the biggest issue here, uniforms for police, uniforms for the military. As far as I know, the uniforms now worn by the police didn't sew "Jumko", but that's not the subject, and I don't want to talk about "Jumko". There's a lot of talk about that there's been a bad situation, that the new government has found a bad situation, whether it belongs to the National Bank in this law or not, and then it's said that earlier governors of the National Bank have made a mess. I call on the Deputy Prime Minister to plead according to those allegations, since she was, in general, known as the Governor of the National Bank, and it is certain that she followed the work of other governors, so let's see if that's true or not. What should have put order into public finances, and this law is otherwise passed because public finances were to be settled, was to cut costs. There were promises that there would be redundancies in the administration, the public sector, or whatever you want to call it. None of this happened, whether it was because of the election, whether it was because of the conflict between the resorts, whether or not because of some third things, I'm not going to get into it, but it didn't happen. It is publicly known that public procurement in the public sector is a disaster, that it saves 300 million if it happens, as some colleagues say, it means that billions are still being dumped. If you want to arrange public administration in a valid way, you will not arrange it with a confusing law that is passed in the middle of the night, on Sunday, and is not even as important to the Serbian public as any volleyball game that has interrupted the transfer of this session. So I ask you, first of all, to be aware, you may have a good intention, maybe it's with the best intentions, I'm not excluding that possibility, to withdraw this law, to prepare it so that it can be consistent, to include public enterprises and to offer it before the election or after the election, depending on the result of the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51693	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51694	I thank you, Mr. Becic. An injured member of 106 who says the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda under investigation. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted an amendment to Article 2. The bill, which says - the name of the member and Article 2 is deleted. And the previous speaker talked about everything just didn't talk about his amendment. But I, Mr. Becic, have a lot of appreciation for that, because Thursday's previous speaker gave information to all Serbian citizens who will be the new prime minister if DOS, this overcompensated and new DOS, wins eventually in the elections. Him. So I have an understanding of what the previous speaker was saying. I think he was in fact exposing the new government's exposés that he's going to put together, but only on one small condition, which is that in late April of the month, Serbian citizens are being deceived by collective amnesia and forget all the bad things DOS has done to them, including the government led by the previous speaker from 2000 to 2012. Just for that reason, Mr. Becic, I'm not asking you to vote on this injury to the Rules of Procedure. It is good for Serbian citizens to know what awaits them if the new DOS wins the elections, so they are expected to return to the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51695	Thank you. You yourself understood my reasons for letting Mr. Zivkovic finish the exposure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51696	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in order to make it clear to the viewers, I have to read what my fellow farmer has suggested to delete - the right to pay and other income, employees are entitled to pay, increased salary, compensation of wages, expenses and other receipts in accordance with this law and special law. I hope he didn't think they were doing it for nothing. I think that in the elections they will certainly appreciate this insistence that by eradicating this article, if they adopt all others, they would question the right to receive wages. So, employees, if we were to delete this member, they wouldn't receive salaries, they wouldn't exercise that right. That right would not have been achieved by the leader of the former regime's "Vojvodina" who wrote threatening messages to the party leader, to his own leader, to the Duke's government, a man who is a party non-party figure or what it's called, who wrote threatening messages, this time would not have received a salary, because he works in public services and there is a big question of what would have happened to them, whether he would have had to write it part-time, unpaid, etc. Public officials, officials would have had a higher salary, especially in Vojvodina, if the money hadn't been thrown away. We don't have extra workers, we don't have workers, and that part of the job was put in by party grounds before we introduced a ban on party employment, so let's just say that the Duke's government didn't buy a machine for 8,328,000, which the other institution bought at the same time for 3,536,000, I think the public sector salaries would be higher and I don't think it would be necessary for someone to propose to delete the salary right, and the salaries would be far higher than they are now. If someone on one machine, as they say, takes five million, then you can imagine what's going on in the Athar of the Duke's Authority. I see that the upcoming campaign will not be elective, but will be gymnastics again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51697	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51698	I would like to use the recent discussion to highlight a very important thing for the citizens of Serbia, and especially for the employees who need this law in the coming year to set up, so to speak, the road and a clear future in editing their salaries. When we say that justice will be introduced, it's a very big risk for us, because everyone thinks it's just his profit that's the most unfair. Everyone sees what's lacking in logic that leads to their profit and sees what their efforts are and sees how hard they are trying, and it's much harder to see it in others. It is also the reason why it has been impossible for a decade to make such a law, and it is the greatest victory of this law, which may be possible for anyone to find people who are unhappy with this law, but they have all accepted through a very comprehensive, very thorough process of discussion, explanations, explanations, everyone has adopted this law. That's why I invite MPs in this assembly to adopt it, because I think for the first time we've managed to make a real balance between having some things to be even for everyone to be comparable, and yet there's flexibility to recognize the specificity of those or those specialities, there will be some of them, those specialities for everyone who has to be recognized. I repeat, this law itself will not finish the job and is not a guarantee that the job will be well solved. It will be up to the next government to conclude this in accordance with the principles, honestly, as it is written and will continue to require a lot of work, a lot of dialogue and a lot of harmonisation of the views of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51699	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51700	Dear Vice-President Mr Becic, I propose that this amendment to Article 2 of the Law, which reads - be deleted, rejected because it is ineligible, unfounded, and therefore unnecessary, so it is negative, because it denies all wages in the public sector, and besides that it is non-transparent, etc. Mr. Vice President, I have a feeling that the amendments, academic honesty and his colleague, have proposed this amendment just to use seven minutes, because their explanation, especially his colleague, was such that he was not talking about Article 2 at all, but some general things. Dear gentlemen, fellow professors, your and my colleague, academic congratulations, the amendment proposed that you, or we, together all, employees do not have the right to pay, the increased salary, the remuneration and other incomes with this amendment, because Article 2 says that employees exercise the right to pay, the increased salary, the salary fee, etc. So you see what this is all about. I thought they were seriously thinking when they proposed this amendment, however, I am convinced that they really don't mean it, because of the 1,000th and some proposed amendments in this high House, they were only at the vote on three to four amendments, thereby showing their relationship, not only to the amendments and laws, but also to the political system of this country. In the end, at the last session, Mr. Vice President, one of the amendment's proposings, academic honesty, insulted my smallness by telling the truth, did not apologize. I invite him to apologize again tonight, because his students just called me to ask him to do so, because he lied, not only in front of the MPs, but in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in front of the students. If not on behalf of nothing, then on behalf of academic integrity, civil responsibility. I suggest that the amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51701	Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 2nd amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51702	Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed to amend this formulation in Article 2(2) and instead of what we propose to say - employees shall exercise their right to pay, salary compensation, expenses and other receipts in accordance with this law and special laws. To tell you the truth, my motive for what we've proposed is most of this term "increased salary". The first reason why we did this is to define in some other members of the law what it means to "increase wages" and what the conditions are necessary to increase that salary. On the other hand, when I read you say "increased salary", it immediately caught my ears, because the reality in which we live, the reality in which Serbian citizens function is completely different and it would be better if you put "reduced wages" here. Why do I say that? If you think it's okay with this bill that thousands of people who work in education have such low incomes, that a master's degree of literature, say, with a class eldership has a salary of about 42,000, 44,000 in primary or secondary education, that people with six degrees of professional training have salaries below 350 euros, that people who are in health care are working in very difficult conditions and have such reduced salaries that, how can I say, outside of all streams, beyond what people expected from this authority, then I think that term that you have applied here is offensive and should be deleted from this article. So, to deal seriously with this problem, how much with these proposed terms you have accepted a poor state in which society works, you have accepted the situation that people who have completed high and higher schools, who work in very serious places, especially in education and health, are threatened with previous actions of the government, but also with this bill that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51703	National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51704	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2 which reads: "Employees exercise the right to pay, increased salary, compensation of salaries, compensation of expenses and other receipts in accordance with this law and special law. “ We suggest that this “special law” is deleted and that this attitude reads: “Employees exercise the right to pay, to pay, to pay, to pay, to receive expenses and other benefits according to this law and to the law governing working relations. “ The next point is that the rights set out in Article 1 are also governed by a collective agreement in accordance with this and a special law. We suggest that this attitude reads: “The law of Article 1 is also governed by a collective agreement in accordance with this and the law governing working relations. ” We have done this because we believe that this member of the law should get out of the text the introduction of a special law, as you predict it, because it is too broad a concept and opens up the possibilities of full derogation of solutions contained in system laws, which we insist on, and I ask you to reconsider our proposal once more and to accept our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51705	On behalf of the member and member of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51706	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 3 submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I is one of the 45 amendments that we have submitted to two legislative projects that today, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, defends Mrs Udovicki in our National Assembly. Of the 45 amendments submitted, it was accepted, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to hear, since our guests and our guests certainly know it, they were wondering about this thing, five amendments. This means, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we are the People's MPs of the New Party in these years and 10 months, as we work together in this National Assembly session, submitted a total of 2,305 amendments. I see Mr. Arsic is listening very carefully. Of the 2,305 total amendments submitted, gentlemen were accepted, along with these five, 202 amendments. That makes up 9%, almost 9%, accepted amendments. Dear gentlemen, by the number of amendments submitted, by the number of amendments accepted, we MPs, surely you, Mrs Udovicki, did not know, to inform you, we are certainly champions of Serbian parliamentaryism in this session. For me, gentlemen, this means this, since we always make certain analogies, Mrs. Udovici, of these 9% of the amendments accepted, that the New Party in these extraordinary parliamentary elections that will soon be organised moves from the starting position of 9% of support in the electoral body. This is the result of a hardworking, dedicated work in the year and 10 months. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honored guests and guests, that this is worth a congratulations here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51707	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51708	I would just for the sake of the truth to say that my team is tasked with accepting all amendments that in any way improve the legislative proposal, regardless of the motives of the promoter. Of the 85 proposed amendments that we received from the New Party, 80 took a lot of work, and these five we accepted were amendments concerning the alignment of terms with language spirit, i.e. legal-technical redecorations. We will continue to accept such amendments, because we are working to ensure that Serbian citizens get the best possible law. When we agree that a formulation is closer to the spirit of language, we will always accept it, but I cannot accept it as hard work. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, now: Replica. It's a client. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51709	Mr. Zivkovic, you don't have a parliamentary group. How do you think you have the basis as head of a parliamentary group to get the right to a replica? (Vladimir Pavicevic, now: The New Party writes. ) This applies to parliamentary groups. (Zoran Zivkovic, immediately): Where does it say? In the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51710	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find this statistic of colleagues very interesting, 2000 and some amendments have been tabled, some of which have been adopted, and that means the number of votes in the elections. But 2000 and some amendments mean 2000 and some lists, 2000 and some lists of 250 MPs, I bring it down to the next. You have destroyed a good percentage of the forest in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51711	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment promoter has proposed that the salary rights be deleted, that those who are employed have the right to pay. A member talked about it. I don't see that any amendment has been passed on this bill, but at this point I can't see enough and I haven't been to any celebration. They seem to be going together now. I see here that the amendment of a parliamentary group has been accepted and that only one in this law has been accepted. Maybe I'm wrong or I didn't really go to some celebrations or I didn't consume enough. I see they've suggested that the salary rights be deleted. It's the only thing I see, but that's not what it was about. There were talk of 2,000 amendments submitted. How many did they vote for? In less than seven. Everything else was a good will of the government. They want to count the percentage, if they didn't believe in their proposals, in themselves, and if they voted seven times for 2000 and what they said, then let them calculate, that's about 0.3. It's appropriate to that size. My suggestion is that the future colleague of my colleague does not calculate it in percentages but in promis and margans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51713	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51714	Dear Minister, we have suggested that this second position in Article 3 which says the right to pay ceases on the day of termination of the employment relationship be deleted for several reasons. As for most members, most of the proposals we made, I am sorry that there is no transmission and that you have denied the right of people in Serbia even though it is a law concerning 500,000 people, so that people can hear why we have proposed such amendments. I was not satisfied with this formula regarding this attitude, and in the end I felt that a special member should define what it means to be entitled to pay and when it ceases and that through some more detailed and precise formulations it points to this right. I wanted to say why there's insufficient formulation here, because first of all, the experience in four previous years is people who are primarily from DS who felt that the right to pay does not stop just by the day they break up the working relationship, but by the day that some prominent SNS leader comes to the post of president or director of a public enterprise, so all the people who work in some company like it was in Prokuplje and Kursumlia, who from DS, have left to work with a broom on the street to clean up, and remove their right to earn or make some profit as he estimates. Then dozens of companies that had been incompetent after the arrival of the SNS directors at the head of some companies and who had destroyed businesses have led to the fact that people remain without that right to compensation even though they were left to work. Therefore, I felt that it was good to see some other things as opportunities in this article, not just working hours and days of termination of employment to be treated in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51715	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 4th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51716	Article 4. reads - employees are entitled to monthly salary. The second position – salary for the current month shall be paid by the end of the next month at the latest, in accordance with the general rules on work. Why the need for this member? All employees have the right to pay, whether they work in the public sector, in the private sector or anywhere. That's attitude one. Article 2 – to be paid at the latest by the end of next month, otherwise we are not in the spirit of the Serbian language salary for the current month, probably the salary for last month is paid by the end of next month. For the current month, no salary is paid, never, especially if it is paid in the next month. Therefore, the amendments are "wipe" medically, useful, because they clear the law of meaninglessness such as this Article 4. Another correction I was about to tell Mrs. Minister. You said it was sent from our side 80 and some amendments, not true. It's 45 and five is accepted and all three laws, not just this one. So another appeal, of course, that people in the public sector will still be paid, will work because there are laws that define that area now. Not by adopting this bill will not endanger their equal status, their wages and everything else that goes, and you will have the opportunity to make a new law, to propose it in a regular procedure after a serious debate that will give answers to all the dilemmas that you obviously have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51717	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51718	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I understand it, has been proposed to delete, for example, the position of a member who reads - employees have the right to a monthly salary. I think to some, as the people say, some who, in time when they ruled, did not need pay. But there are those who live off that salary who have not had the privileges of another guy and who support their children from that salary and who barely make ends meet. If they accept this position, 99% of the employees are a difficult poor person, they have been dragged into that position by the very ones who are proposing that their salary be deleted now. The employee has the right to a monthly salary and great wisdom in chasing some percentages and passing away, it is great wisdom to delete people's right to a monthly salary. I think that this amendment should not only be rejected but also reminded that those who suggested this were sharing good and evil with the people, by taking good for themselves, and leaving only evil for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51719	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 4th amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51720	Dear Minister, we also wanted to point out with this member a very devastating policy of the SNS, which is viewed primarily in the engagement of a large number of incompetent personnel at, above all, local and state level, who, by their actions and by their dissatisfaction and by not doing so, brought first of all by the institutions at the local level into a very difficult situation. I think that in the next period you will have a problem as a ministry, and we as a society that respects this first position that employees have the right to monthly earnings, given that this situation that we have talked about is that 15 billion dinars in the budget have been allocated to temporary and occasional jobs introduced about 30,000 party activists into the public sector and that this was done before the elections and that you will have a big problem with how you leave that people out of work after the election, because of course people expect to stay there to work, or not to work on these jobs or work only for the party, but the campaign will be over and they will have a problem with engagement. We felt that this would put the whole society into a problem that and that this first position, that the employees would of course have, should have the right to earn, at the monthly level, actually be impossible to realize. We will come into a situation, dear minister, that very quickly because of such a relationship, where in the municipality of Uzica, in the town of Uzica, in the last three years you have 200 people who are employed in the public sector, that in places where three people have worked in one office now, 15 people are working, that all the projects that we have worked on have been compromised and that you have no business, let alone any other activity at the level of local administration, that we will come into a situation that these people will not be able to earn, that those people who have been employed have been real jobs, that this approach will be without a job and will not have the opportunity to make those monthly earnings. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51721	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51722	I just wanted to point out again, for the sake of citizens who listen to this parliamentary debate, that I think this law is very important for all those who work, for those 500,000 public sector employees defined in the way this law defines it, and that is public administration and other bodies that are related to services that are not marketable and are related to the budget. So, for them, I want them to know that every time there are some fundamental issues in the debate, proposals on amendments that need to be clarified, I will certainly take the opportunity to explain why this amendment has been accepted or not accepted. We accepted one amendment. There have been amendments that really try to change something and most often show a clear misunderstanding. But when it comes to amendments that have been written to disavow the public in some way, I give the opportunity to talk about something that really has nothing to do with the law, I don't want to spend anyone's time answering them, and therefore I just want to assure the public that we're going to use the opportunity tonight to clarify this law to the greatest extent possible for those who want to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51723	Thank you. At the title of Chapter II and the name of the member and member of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vučković, Balša Bozovic and the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov together. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51724	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Mrs. Udovicki when she says that parliamentary debate is very important, especially when it comes to our amendment to Article 5 shows that there is no logic in some of the solutions spoken of. Here, I'll explain it now. For example, respected gentlemen, Article 5 defines the elements of which are the salaries of public sector employees, but not in public enterprises. Here, let's say that this is the line A. Recital B, which Mrs. Udovicki said today during the debate -- public enterprises are part of the public sector. The sentence C, which we are now reading in the legislative project itself, says – this law regulates the system of pay for public sector employees, and then is said in the last position except in public enterprises. Here, Mrs. Udovicki, for me all these sentences, such as orderly means, or that the government is powerless to face a major problem of partocratism, which is why it failed to deal with defining the salaries of employees in public enterprises, or, if you find it more convenient, that the government does not want to face a partocrat system at all, but, gentlemen, it is the content of such legislative projects that strengthens it. On whatever side you approach this parliamentary debate, say that the government is powerless or that the government strengthens partocrats with its legislative projects, I think a reasonable man can only conclude, goes one way and another, that it's a bad government. If that bad government doesn't even want to take part in the debate because it believes that some arguments don't stand here, then that's another proof that the government is very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51725	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, absolutely unacceptable, unnecessary and unnecessarily amended. For a fellow promoter, I will read only the word obscenity, because he has a problem with that term, obscenity means dark, vague, incomprehensible, hazy, undefined. Of course, I suggest that such an insecure amendment be rejected, an amendment to Article 5 and the name of Chapter 2, which regulates the elements of the salary. The amendment provides for erasure and one of the 40 amendments of the same, which reads - is deleted. I must agree with the finding that with a respected colleague, the absolute champions of the Serbian parliament, the champions of erasing the amendments that are read -- it is deleted, but I do not understand why he is proud of it. She has a folk – what is she ashamed of, obviously Mr. Pavicevic is proud of. I suggest erasing this amendment, or refusing this amendment, as well as any other amendments that suggest erasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51727	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 5th amendment together. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51728	Dear Minister, believe me, for all the legislative proposals we received on time in the Assembly, we made a contribution and we made an effort to make them better, but I think it's a particularly big problem that you're agreeing to talk about this law on Sunday at five o'clock, and yet you've too silently allowed that there is no transposition, degradation of this law and an attempt to make it better, which are here. You say the essential amendments that are here will get your attention and answers. Isn't it an essential thing that I just said that an army of members and SNS activists has been engaged in some of the past few months right at the campaign and with 15 billion dinars... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51729	Is this a theme, Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51730	... Our proposal that what you said be in the first place...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51731	I know, but don't influence a democratic debate with your exposure off topic. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51732	Our proposal to delete Article 1 of Article 5 is precisely that this part that I have just explained about increased salaries, that the SNS policy that has been promoted over the past four years towards Serbian citizens, primarily towards the public sector and people who are in education, who have reduced their salaries and downgraded that people who have master's degrees work by 42 or 43 thousand in education or people who are specialists and work for 60,000 in health care, led to you not to use the term – increased salaries, but to use the term – reduced salaries. That what you've stated here in the law is just a mere term that doesn't say anything about itself, and what's reality in life is a policy that you've promoted towards educated people, to people who need to influence generations that grow up, to people who expect a service in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51733	Thank you. Replica has MP Veroljub Arsic as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51734	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear colleagues from the former regime, can't one of you say that – where do they get public sector employees' salaries from? Could it be from the real sector? Is that the real sector that "dragon" would be Rakovica, IMT, FAP, and you ruined both MIP in Pozarevec and "Slavija" in Belgrade? You've ruined everything. What are we taking from citizens? What kind of activists are you talking about? About your activists you hired in the state administration. I was explaining how, when you invent the boss's place, you give the boss a little more pay, and if there's five whose boss's got another 30% salary increase, you're bringing those four or five out of your party. Now you're worried about who? For your activists. Why didn't you take care of the real sector employees? They fill the budget, they maintain the economy. They're keeping us all alive. You didn't take care of them. In four years, 400,000 people are out of work. What the hell is wrong with you? What are you talking about? What kind of layoffs are you talking about? Four hundred thousand people are out of work, and now you're supposed to be taking care of pensioners! They lived on these 400,000 people, for public sector employees. They received salaries from those 400,000 people. Why didn't you think about them then? You didn't care. It was nice. Oh, my God, there's a different time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51735	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica! ) Mr Markovic, you are not mentioned, the DS is not mentioned and you are not authorized. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Ali mentioned pensioners. ) Did he mention pensioners? And what does that have to do with you? Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51736	Why should a bad law be deleted? Here, let me read Article 6, which speaks very precisely - nothing. The basic salary shall be determined by multiplying the basis for the calculation and payment of the salary (hereinafter referred to as the basic text) by the coefficient, unless otherwise specified by this law. We've already got one other thing. The second attitude begins with - exclusively from the 1st position of the basic salary is determined by multiplying the base by the sum of the coefficients and the corrective coefficient. Article 3 - The basic salary is made in full-time, or working hours that are considered full-time. For part-time, the right to a basic salary is achieved in proportion to the time spent at work. So the coefficient is being introduced, but it is valid -- unless, and then we have -- extremely, and then we have that full-time and full-time and working hours that are considered full-time. Since the minister said she would not communicate with the amendment writers, I am fully aware of the situation. When you have no arguments, then you're hiding, you're talking about the elements that want to break the system, which is actually called "the defence of silence" in Serbian. When you don't have anything to say, when you don't realize which nebulist you gave in article 6, then you say -- these are higher interests, it's an obscenity definition, or something like that. I am very glad that the "Political Partyer" celebrated 77 years ago, so some MPs have managed to learn something in the last five or six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51737	Time, thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51738	We've come to one of, so to speak, the most controversial member of this law and I think it's a good opportunity to explain to the citizens exactly what this article is about. It is true that the basic salary is determined by multiplying the basis for the calculation and payment of the salary by the coefficient, unless this law sets out otherwise. Whoever reads the whole law sees where it's different. It is in the case of the military and the officials, when it comes to defining their earnings which will be correctly and otherwise defined in clearly visible, transparent laws that will be adopted by this Assembly, and yet they enter this law for other reasons, because, however their salary will be determined, it will be transparently shown in the catalog of jobs, whose goal is for all in Serbia to see exactly how all the salaries are determined for 500,000 employees in this law determines. When it comes to the correct coefficient, there's exactly the key to what this law is, to say, partial or semi-centralization. As long as we spent ten years in this country trying to put all 500,000 in a completely uniformly defined coefficient, we failed. The corrective coefficient is used on those clearly defined exceptional occasions, when a well-defined job, for which we clearly valued the jobs in which the pay group belongs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51739	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51740	Just a second to finish this. So, clearly, jobs will be valued, wherever they are done, when jobs are the same, the corrective coefficient will also be clearly visible and it is used for exceptional opportunities in terms of working conditions. You can do the same job the same way you work under completely different conditions of work that justify making a correction. This correction will be visible in the business catalogue, in addition to the transactions for which the corrective coefficient is used. That solution allowed us to finish this job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51741	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you've wasted your time for nothing to explain. For some MPs from the former regime, this is atomic physics, they don't understand it. So it's atomic physics for them. And I wish they had read "Politika's Funster" a little bit, they might have understood something from this, but they didn't even use such literature.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51743	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51744	Dear Chairman, I can see you're wondering what I've come to report for, and I'm calling for article 107. - an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. Although, I can see Mr. Babic and the others are surprised, but the fact that after such a quality and exhaustive presentation by the Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51745	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. I am taking up your parliamentary group of times that you have abused by reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because you do not have the opportunity to replicate Ms. Minister at this time, especially not to mention the other MPs in the O.R. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I did not finish. Let me just finish my sentence. It's not worth it, it's taken time for your MP's group. Just keep going, I'll take all the time. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: He insulted Mrs. Minister because he called her discussion a child's entertainer. ) Mr. Markovic, then, are you challenging the MPs to refer to someone's exposure in their presentations? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I think the minister is offended because he said... That's funny, Mr. Markovic. My decision is to take away your MP's time group that you used to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51746	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, jointly submitted the 6th amendment to the Social Democratic Party, together for Serbia. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51747	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Article 6 speaks as follows – the basic salary is determined by multiplying the basis for the calculation and payment of the salary (hereinafter the basic text) by the coefficient, unless this law sets out otherwise. Item 2 says - exclusively from the position of the 1st member of the basic salary is determined by multiplying the base by the sum of the coefficients and the corrective coefficient. We have suggested that Article 2 be deleted, because Article 6(2) is intended to determine exclusively from Article 1 of the basic salary on the basis of the coefficients and the corrective coefficient which is later set out in Article 9, whose closer regulation is left to a specific law. Since the corrective coefficient is inaccurate in this way, it leaves the possibility of abuse in determining wages, and we believe that such an attitude is better deleted. You're in your discussion, Madam Minister, saying it applies to the military and that's fine. You're talking about the police here in article nine, and that's fine. But in the discussion, you listed the officials. I don't see why someone would have to get a corrective coefficient within the pay grade and pay group. What kind of work does he do in a specific way that can't be processed here in law? That is why we propose to delete this attitude from this law, because the concept of a corrective coefficient is unclear, vague and not known how and when it will apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51748	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 6th amendment together. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51749	Dear Minister, we felt that Article 6 needed to change this position of 3rd, which says: "The basic salary is realised in full-time" and you say in the following: "or the working time considered full-time". We felt that this second part of the sentence should in some way be defined or it denies this first part of the sentence, and the experiences that I mentioned earlier and which I think are essential and which relate to these remarks that I want to say are tied up, say, for the town of Užice, which I have already said in the last three years, through its institutions and public enterprises and local administrations, hired over 200 people and believe that people in Užica are surprised when at some time break at 10-11 they go to town in several locals around municipalities or tax administrations and other institutions or in the square, you see only people who are employed in the public sector and who drink coffee and who say they are at work. And you have a situation here to say that somewhere in defining what full-time it is, in some way, legalizes this unhappiness, which is actually due to the fact that over the past three or four years, thousands of people in the public sector have been employed in temporary and occasional jobs, who don't even have chairs where they sit in offices that exist, who don't know the descriptions of their jobs and who have come into the situation that you're legalizing through this member, what you're saying -- and until full-time. So I thought that it would be better to erase this attitude and in some way stand up to that destructive policy, that is, to find other mechanisms for these people to get a job or get out of work. Their engagement in the coming period will put public enterprises at risk. You have a situation that there is no system in Užica, that there is no development project that is developing. In the last few days, we have heard the information that the Deep Deposit has lost 2.5m euros in donations to spread the body of the dump because there is a conflict of interest of the director of the public enterprise with the function of the board. Therefore, his basic salary should be greatly reduced and not implies what it is until full-time, but rather to take his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51750	On behalf of the members and members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. Here you go, Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51751	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable President of the National Assembly. Please, Mrs. Gojkovic, that machine for measuring mathematical operations now counts the time of five minutes, which I am entitled to according to the amendment debate, because our amendment to Article 7 is also a very important amendment. The amendment to Article 7, the Honored President of the National Assembly, you have not heard, so let me tell you, is one of the 45 amendments that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted to two legislative projects that are being defended tonight in our National Assembly by Minister Udovicki. Of these 45 amendments, gentlemen, to hear and to hear Mr Babic, who now detests because he knows what follows, follows one statistics on the success of the opposition in the National Assembly, respected gentlemen, of 45 submitted amendments, Mrs Gojkovic, five amendments were accepted. Tonight we found out that Mrs. Widows was reluctant to do it. Mrs. Gojkovic, you weren't here, so here's to complain a little. When we announced here that our amendments were accepted, five, our guest, the Honorable Minister Mrs. Udovicki had to answer the word immediately and say, "No, no, no, it's not that important, you know, I said... Well, wait, gentlemen, gentlemen, every amendment is important. For us, under these conditions of a difficult advance blow to parliamentaryism, any accepted amendment is important, gentlemen. Mrs. Gojkovic, here, let me inform you, since when Mr. Becic holds the presidency it is difficult to make two sentences without him interrupting you for a year and ten months, Mr. Babic has not heard, so to hear now, we have submitted 2,305 amendments. We, Mrs Gojkovic, have no dilemma, the champions of Serbian parliamentism in this regard, and not only by the number of submitted ones, but, respected gentlemen, by the number of amendments accepted, 202 amendments, of course, the machine for mathematical operations to measure five minutes, which is, gentlemen, to be heard here once again, 9% of the amendments accepted, or, following certain analogies that some of us are also making in our parliamentary debates here, 9% of the citizens only support the New Foreigners in the extraordinary parliamentary elections that we all expect now in April or May of the month. Dear gentlemen, the amendment to Article 7, it is very important that we focus on the content of our debate, not to come out of the topic, that we are always on the subject, the amendment to Article 7 is a very important amendment because it concerns establishing the basis of public sector employees in state bodies, for example, but, Mrs Gojkovic, not in public enterprises. We have offered one explanation to Mrs. Udovici, where we wrote – it is absurd to suggest that establishing the basis of public sector wage does not also apply to employees in public enterprises, respected gentlemen. Why was it necessary for us to intervene like this? Well, because Mrs. Widowsky also said in her presentation here that public enterprises are part of the public sector. If they are part of the public sector, we need a more fundamental argument that all those employed in the public sector are now exempt from this law which determines the salaries of public sector employees. This respects gentlemen, here, and Mr. Neđo Jovanovic to hear, if we want to follow a certain logic, therefore, if we stick to logic, if we stick to reason, it means that - or the Government could not solve a major problem of partocratiality, and in four years of our work, so, in four years, this and the government that preceded it, from 2012 to 2016, has failed to deal with a major problem of partocratism, which, gentlemen, in my opinion, has shown one terrible impotence in solving the major problems that we face in our political community, and if we do not accept this time of analysis, interpreting the functioning of the Government, then it means that the government did not want to solve one big question more partocratically. What does "partocrat" mean, gentlemen? Partocracy means that in our country, if it is based on a party system, rewards, honors are not given on merits, as would be order, I think, in a democratic, open, parliamentary democracy, but they are obtained on the basis of party membership, so what party is in power depends on whether you get a job maybe in a public enterprise or elsewhere, whether you get some honor, some reward, etc. I'm a fighter against partocratism. I resent the Government, under A, on the impotence, which was unable to resolve the issue, and I resent the government, under B, which, by such legislative projects, such as the project that defends Mrs. Udovicki in our National Assembly tonight, strengthens an unfair part-scrat system. My expectation, ladies and gentlemen, is that the next logic, the next common sense, is that we all stand up here against a legislative project like this, not to defend something that is indefensible, and that, gentlemen, at one session, once again at night. So Mrs. Udovici told us today – there are important laws, there are reform laws. Well, what kind of reform laws are these, gentlemen, discussed at night sessions? Dear Mrs. Udovicki, the reforms, the state affairs should be done by day, under the bright sun, under the light, to see everything, that nothing, not a single point or a comma, which we have also intervened here, will be hidden, respected gentlemen, not at night sessions, and does not give us Mrs. Udovici's answers here that is not of the domain of her jurisdiction for when a session of the National Assembly will be scheduled. It's as if we don't know that the government is sending some directives here, that Mr. Becic here signs a merger once and a half of 15 and more points of the agenda into one, respected gentlemen, and we don't react to that here. I thought...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51752	What exactly do you want to delete?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51753	Article 7. – establishing a basis for public sector employees, Mrs Gojkovic. Well, you know I'm on the subject, unlike the gentlemen of the advanced party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51754	Well, now we've heard, in seven minutes. Thank you. MP Zoran Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51755	Madam President, I'll talk about the amendment, of course. It is hypocritical when one in six, seven minutes in the first sentence presents himself as the most valuable, and in the last sentence he says, "My God, why do I work in the evening?" It kind of conflicts with those principles, somehow a colleague who spoke before me, seems to me that from the beginning to the end of the speech he can't put himself together with himself, what does he want to be the most valuable or unworkable? On the other hand, I do not know who else is the reflector in this room, it is necessary to include in order that respected colleagues can clearly see both the law and the amendments to which they are voted. I don't think just physically of these lights, I think they're much more important to SNS, the most significant public reflectors. Public reflectors, because we are also in front of citizens because the National Assembly sessions are being transferred to public service, unlike some time since 2003, when the Prime Minister's decision ended them. What light were we able to talk about back then? We could have talked about the darkness of parliamentaryism, about the insubordination of parliamentaryism, but it wasn't enough for the previous speaker, but it went after such a policy. I think it's much more right and better if you say that the afternoon, evening, night hours, serve to come to the state you were in a few nights ago here in the National Assembly, returning from some celebration, at least at your admission. Disrespect for parliamentaryism, Madam President, rape of the Rules of Procedure, when showing and speaking about the amendment, I don't think the previous speaker even knew the title above article 7 which so bravely suggested for erasing, because we didn't hear a single word that referred to Article 7. We haven't heard any arguments but general some things that are like "copy-paisy" which the previous speaker speaks of every amendment, and not every amendment, about every amendment of every law. It's literally like "kopi-paist". Nine per cent, I think the previous speaker is enough that in those nine per cent I began to believe and that the parties of the former regime, or the party of the new DOS, believed that they were the strongest force in the new DOS, and therefore the largest force in the new DOS, also trusted the prime minister of the future. Well, we could hear it a few days ago, when that future prime minister said he was ready to answer Mr. Jank's question, as future prime minister is ready to answer any question, but other parties of the new DOS who, behold, have entrusted Mr. Zivkovic with the post of future prime minister. I'd like to remind the previous speaker of one more thing. Parliament doesn't just start with this convocation, and it doesn't end with just this convocation, this is the tenth convocation, the ninth convocation. In the ninth session, there was a parliamentary group that was also the champion of the amendment, submitted a little over 3,500 amendments, and more than 10% were accepted, and this was the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary party, which remained out of parliament in 2014. So that argument as much as the amendments - so much support, with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I don't think it pays too much. Besides, if the amendment promoter believes in such support, and we see that the other parties of this new DOS trusted him, I ask him, I urge you, I beg you, please come out the bar for, at least run for home council, for the home advice of a building in Vračar, so let's see you get at least one election. Come out and run, name and last name, and let's see what people think and what people say about your politics, and see what it's like and how much trust it is. I think that because of the arguments not made by the amendment promoters, because of the rape of the Rules of Procedure on Labour, and because of one serious lie that is thus thrown at parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51756	I'll give you a replica, only Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51757	I would like to thank the President. I think that you should have given me the right to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, before you gave the right to the replica, but already when so, I have the right to appeal to Article 106(1) and to point out that you violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing the previous speaker, who spoke before his colleagues Babic, to abuse both the Rules of Procedure and abuse the reasoning of the amendments, because in the explanation of the amendment there was nothing compared to the amendment, only in the last seconds of all that the story was about the amendment we heard an alleged explanation about why a certain member of the bill was requested. I think that this degree of tolerance towards the MP who is being expressed both by you and by the other presidents does not lead to good, because in this way the reputation of parliament is being undermined, because in this way it is allowed to appear propaganda and that is one very group of propaganda or political marketing parties that does not have a parliamentary group in this parliament. Because in this way, something seems to be done that should in no way be allowed to allow any MP group, and at least that parliamentary group whose representative just spoke the way he spoke. Therefore, I ask you to respond at the very beginning of the infringement of Article 106(1), i.e. leaving the agenda, which is being considered, that the MPs would not be the hostages of such a way of showing, or explaining the amendments, which in any case does not correspond to what the Rules of Procedure prescribe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51758	Thank you. You think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, you want us to vote? (No) Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51759	This was otherwise an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as it is to be voted upon, if you are already asking that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, but it is not mine. The previous speaker said a few lies, which, of course, is nothing new, but just to point to a specific situation. First, that story that I was running for prime minister of the new DOS, a new coalition, an old DOS or anything, could only be understood by someone who had a lack of intelligence or who was malicious. And I'm sure the predecessor or the television that announced that they weren't malicious, that's more than clear. In no way could it be concluded, but if you're afraid of that time, if you're afraid of the time of 2003 when I was still in that position, then it's one difficult year in which investments were bigger than all four years of your government. At that time, the euro was 62 dinars, Serbia's public debt was slightly over ten billion, so almost three times smaller than it is now. New private companies were founded, so in the real sector. The administration we're talking about now, the public sector was half as small as it is now and there were very few firms that were on grant from Serbia's budget. So it's clear as day. Allusion to celebrations and how it comes from celebrations, the same question, how can I tell you, a stereotype that someone's growing inside of them, so they think they're all growing. Celebrations are beautiful events, and the fact that you personally associate it with alcohol from your experience is your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51760	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51761	I think the previous speaker is convinced and constantly thinks people in Serbia are like him, so he will insult them with insult. No, I don't. Nor will anyone from the SNS, to the great insults that came from his side and from his fellow sitting before him, will we patiently, Christianly so, suffer, accept each of these insults because the insults speak more of him than of us. When we talk about the IQ, it's being examined and determined, it's known in what way. I have proven my degree of intelligence, in the way I finished at the University of Belgrade, Faculty of Engineering, and I will gladly show the previous speaker all the colleges in Belgrade. I believe he knows more about cafes than colleges in Belgrade. On the other hand, as a political opponent, as someone who thinks differently in a political sense, I am not afraid of the previous speaker, nor when he was strongest, nor when he is again a candidate for prime minister. These are his words, but what is the fact, such situations are feared by the citizens of Serbia, because they remember that time and what a time it was when he led both the government and our state. On the other hand, when those results were so great, so fantastic. Why did he lose the election? He also lost the election in his party, lost his election and trust and disastrously lost the elections that were held in the Republic of Serbia that year. So how can such fantastic results experience a fiasco, besides completely its policy-making can be described in a word as - fiasco.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51762	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51763	That cantar where that intelligence is measured is something I don't care about. Of course I respect anyone who's graduated from any school or college in particular. It's a shame that the previous speaker failed to show that knowledge from the machine, because as far as I can tell, the resale of the cemetery has nothing to do with the machinery, but maybe it's a higher one, maybe some specialization was from that area. The time of 2003, when I had the misfortune to be president of the Serbian government, is remembered among most citizens, unfortunately, on the one hand for one big unfortunate event, and on the other hand, by the fact that the state then managed to show its strength and to prevent a real coup, and not by what some of the televisions, which, unintentioned, but these others, with lack of intelligence, and what crime in this country was then reduced to a minimum. The election that I was in at the time, in December 2003, was not led by me, nor was I the bearer of the list, nor created the campaign, so ask someone else, and the respected engineer of the machinery mentioned the election for the home council a little while ago and that someone was running for the election for the home council. I'd like to warn the predecessor that home counsel doesn't exist very long, that there are residents' congregations, so perhaps in that context he sees his future and I wish him a lot of happiness and that he is there to carry out the same advanced ideas he has conducted and in a public enterprise in the place where he came from.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51764	Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51765	The burning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is in the CV of someone who spoke earlier. The spraying of chickens in the village of Pukovac, plain water, is located in someone else's CV. A million and a half euros from the country for the purchase of weapons that never came into our country is in someone else's CV. The privatisation of Beopetrol in a criminal way in someone else's CV. Crimeal privatisation of the "Duvanian Nis Industry", in privatisation, of someone else's CV. The vineyards of Fruskogorje, and they are beautifully subsidized with 500,000 euros from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, were in a strange way transferred to the Vraška apartments, are located in another CV. So, neither SNS nor I personally have anything to be ashamed of or uncomfortable about anything, but those who, or those who did all this, are God to me, in front of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, have something to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51766	Zoran Zivkovic believes that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51767	So, of course one part, I hope everyone recognizes, that one part of that excess intelligence that's rolling, but you said burning the Parliament, I didn't participate, and that's clear to everyone. Privatisation of Beopetrola, ask this Little One what he does across the street in the City Assembly. He held tenders for the privatisation of Beopetrol. The privatisation of the "Duvanian Nis" industry is in no way marked as a criminal, and I would like that if you have any knowledge, you should ask the Little one the same thing, about that same privatisation. As far as the election is concerned, some well-informed sources tell me, just now someone has reported from Vranjska Banja, says – Babic won 6% in his election unit, in the 2012 elections, in local elections, which is fine. It's over the census. And I want to congratulate you on this great success, and for anything criminal in my business or political career, for 58 times, I call on the authorities to say it. I also called this one, what was the name of this former prime minister, Vukic, and I told him when he was sitting there, that if he had anything to say, he would do something about it. To do something. Well, so many people have mentioned it, I'm waiting for any state institution, any investigation, whatever process, to determine anything. I'm particularly proud of the "Sabre" for which I'm afraid the conditions are coming back again. I promise the citizens of Serbia that if the political option of the New Party gets their trust in the elections, it is sharply shrubs to re-cut crime in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51768	Ambassador... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51769	Can I help you? If you don't know which "Sabre", I can tell you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51770	No, no. You're behind what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51771	"Sabbe" is a police judicial action that was done for 40 days, preventing a coup in Serbia, reducing the level of crime to below... You have to shut me down or I'll go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51772	No, no, I still think you think for spoken, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51773	So there are many good consequences of "Sablje" and I think that Serbian citizens... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51774	Wait, it's been a while. Yeah. Zoran Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51775	It looks like there's really a eclipse in this room, because, uh, a colleague of the previous speaker, he hasn't seen another zero. Another zero is added to those six, so there is a percentage that has won the SNS. Which means 60% in Vranjska Banja. And I'm always ready to give my hand and say as many votes as I can, but in the number of votes, not in percentages, the previous speaker at Vrnjakba will be won, I'll win that number times 10, but in percentages. That number, then times 10, but in percentages, compared to the five, six votes you will win at Vranjska Banja, in the number of people you trust. As for "Sablje", I think that's what history is about. Thousands and thousands of people detained, thousands and thousands of people who have stayed in custody for days and months and in prison, millions and millions of dinars and euros as long as the state of Serbia had to pay those individuals. So how many of those 10,000 people are there because someone boasts that he arrested them and arrested them, so how many were convicted? How many have been convicted by law and how many have been convicted of being arrested against law? Well, you're a vermin for the budget. So the vermin for our society and proven so, proven through a relationship to the budget and the city of Nis and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51776	Ambassador, I will give you my word, but anyone who utters what you just said must be ready for the strength of the word... No, I don't mean "Sabrew," I don't know what that means, but I know what you said, you'll take after the stenogram to see what you said. Zoran Zivkovic, he has a word. No, take all the stenograms, it's good for study.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51777	I know what I'm saying, so there's no need to remind myself of what I said. Of course, it's not about intelligence, it's perfectly normal for anyone, including an MP in the Serbian Parliament. Pest — yes, for crime and for criminals. In the "Sabbe" action, 99.99% of the people who were detained were criminals. Of the 11,000 who were detained at the state's expense at the lodging, day or night, three and a half thousand were convicted by law, and 28 or 29 were compensated for allegedly unwarranted arrests, and they got it by being their next or previous minister of justice, so I'm not going to get into it. In 2003, as a result of police and prosecutorial action, the minimum remuneration for unfounded detention and detention has been paid in the last 15 years. That's all the stuff you can check out. No one in Serbia regretted anyone, no criminal who was then processed through an information conversation or through detention. Therefore, this is the case with history, and history will continue to judge, but there are both exact and clear evidence and facts of what happened then and what happened. If we're talking about vermin, I'm not going to return it in such ugly words, I think you and your colleagues are that wonderful creature.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51778	Thank you. I mean, thank you for finishing, and for that "decent creatures," someone's watching movies, so they know what you meant by that. Yes, "These wonderful creatures" is a film about animals. Are you sure? Do you want to answer this? (Zoran Babic, from the place: Yes. The Ambassador Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51779	11655 people were arrested in Sablja. If we're going to tell someone here that three and a half thousand have been convicted, which I'm convinced is not, at this point I don't have that information, but I'm convinced that it isn't, how much tomorrow, Madam President, will I let you know what number of people is - and what about these 8,000 others who have been detained without being convicted? What about their compensation for being brought in against the law? From the budget. Not from the vineyard, not from Beopetrol, not from the Colonel, not from the Republic of Serbia's budget, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Which, it does not have to "Sabela", which, any name of action, will cut down those who are wrongly, again, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will take, hijack, 500,000 euros in order to raise a vineyard, to get the money rather than plant the vineyard itself. How's that? Did anyone see a chocolate from there, from that vineyard, or did that money suddenly, in some magical way, transfer to some exclusive apartments on the Vracar? And that's honesty. On Nebojsa Street. And that's honesty. It is the right way and it is the right treatment for the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is a disgrace that must be cut, but the best cuter for such a thing is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections. So you go out, and you say and sign up as future prime minister, so let's see what people say about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51780	Thank you. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic wants to talk about the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. No more replicas. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How is there no? ) For an hour you've been replicating and talking about “Sabreya. ” The place is about ‘Sablja’. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: one hour? You've got time, you might as well be a candidate for Parliament's president, so... (Marian Risticevic, from the city: I answer the word. Tell me, MP, I'm trying to run a session. So, according to the amendment. Will you or won't you? I don't want to speculate here. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I signed up. You weren't in replicas, so I'm asking. I have the right to ask or move on. You will. You will not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51781	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will talk about the amendment as much as my predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51782	I won't let you do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51783	Then you will violate the law with the Constitution guaranteed, the right to equality. I've been challenged here that I have the right to interpret amendments by several laws, and that's exactly what the one who proposed this amendment did. Namely, this is about determining the basic salary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51784	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51785	I don't know what the predecessors were talking about, if I don't have the right to speak in the same way about the basics of the salary they were talking about, since they suggested that Article 6 be deleted, and Article 7, and Article 4, and Article 3, and Article 2, and Article 1, have deleted the right of employees on the salary and, if you may, I assume that they have deleted that right because they have certain intentions. I believe that the candidate for the cheerful prime minister of the rotten DOS, as he himself said, suggested this with the same idea that the factory workers were illustrating. Why do we have small wages in the public sector today? Why are pensions so small? Why do they suggest that those salaries are not received? Why would they suggest that any right to pay be erased? This stems most likely from their desire to reach that money in a similar way as they have done before. I'm not going to talk about "Sablja", because I assume that my colleague, a respected farmer, was thinking about that cafe saber, that's the specialty of the kitchen in many restaurants and cafes, which he is happy to visit and instead of sitting, he comes straight from that special from the pub and pours good wine and then we have a problem of the next kind, which he says – that wages can't be paid. Based on an insight into the register of agricultural holdings, it was found that the registration of agricultural land was carried out only in the seventh month of 2007. According to the above, it follows that this land had no basis for obtaining the right to incentive funds in 2007, i.e. it did not meet the basic requirement requirement, given that the application relates to the area of the country, which at the time of application is not owned by this legal person. So this is why a certain official no longer accepts salary, because this right was signed by a respected colleague of the farmer, the candidate, as he himself said, for the dedicated evil of the rotten party of the former regime and the rotten DOS, as he himself called it several times last night. What we heard here is an attempt to continue cleaning and lustration of workers not only from factories, but from those who left us 781 thousand employees in the public sector, they forgot that they did it and now they want us who are pulling chestnuts out of the fire, that we do not now have the right to pay public servants a salary because all their amendments are being deleted. As far as intelligence is concerned, if she were to establish herself, I think my colleague would be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51786	Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 7th amendment together. The word is Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51787	Your Honor, I think we're all sharing the impression of one bitterness together because in such an atmosphere we're even discussing this law. I wanted to report to the Rules of Procedure several times to respond, but I really think that 500,000 people covered by this law who, with fear and desire, followed public debate and all the activities that were directed towards the adoption of this bill, can now rightly be even more concerned about their fate. I felt that it was very important in this article 7 that we discuss whether the experience we had, first of all, because of the educators, because of those people in education, who have experienced all the negative effects of the Serbian Progressive Party's policy, through the reduction of wages and pensions, is a reason to work hard and to think about whether this proposal on a single basis is good. All those people who work in education and who have experienced a reduction in their salary because they have completed colleges and do responsible jobs and have thus received the prize of this society, or the policies of this government, are concerned whether this way of determining a single foundation will continue to be good and whether they will have even less wages and even less profits after applying this law. We felt that it was good to delete this 1st and 4th position of the bill, or this article, and to think again, if we could exempt the judiciary, the prosecution, the military, if we could talk about some other way to exempt some services here, that these people who were damaged by all the measures of the government that existed in the previous four years in some way were protected in the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51788	Thank you. The 7th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović, an international MP, Slobodan Homen. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51789	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Udovicki, I have submitted amendments proposed by the Alliance of Independent Unions of Serbia, so I have signed and supported these amendments. Their idea, which I also supported, is to establish a single starting position, I say, a sub-position for all employees, in a way to erase both attitudes 2 and 3 and 4 and that the member who determines the establishment of the basis remains only the 1st position, which says very clearly – the basis is unique for all employees and is determined for each budget year by the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the prior acquisition of the opinion of the Socio-Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia and the proposal for a basis in the process of preparing the law. So that's where the point is and this is how we put equality between all employees by erasing each comma and every "but" after that. Otherwise, I believe that although you are talking about equality, this law brings one great injustice, an inequality among the employees. You are equating all nurses, all health workers, all specialists doctors, all professors, teachers, but only some are more equal than them, so they will remain that the passenger counter in the city's company will have a higher salary than specialist doctors. Well, there's no equality, no justice. Injustice, defeat of the public sector. You're equating people by profession, but you separate them by expertise, you separate them by value, and if your request is, if your desire was to make them the most capable, the most valuable go away from the public sector, well, that's what you did. Only those who can work here and nowhere else will remain, and that is the defeat of the public sector. Let's think, let's talk and have a dialogue on the amendments we're proposing. This will in some ways make this law more just.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51790	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51791	Article 7 is one of the few members that I want to explain, to inform those MPs who want to hear this closer to hearing and citizens who may be following this discussion today. He demanded a difficult scale between, so to speak, different possibilities for how to fix this problem, but in the end, we think that the way in which Article 7 has arranged a single base in the system is only possible and correct. What's this about? One of the most important things that we achieve by this law within three months of adoption, not only from the beginning of the application of the other members when they apply through the 2016 budget to new earnings in 2017, but already, in three months, the whole single base that we have at the moment, which regulates salaries in our public administration system and other state bodies, will be recalculated to one single basis. Since wages will not change, they will remain the same as they are today, that means that the coefficients will be recalculated, and all employees will get a new solution in which the coefficients will be different, the base will be different, but the salary will remain the same. And that base will be the same for all of them, with one exception, which will not actually be an exception now, but from 2017 onwards, which is that in units of local self-government, which do not have enough funds in their budget to pay as much as they will have to pay, since the coefficients will certainly be the same for the same jobs, they may have to pay less pay with a smaller base.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51792	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51793	Okay. On the next amendment, I'll explain it further.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51794	Thank you. Members of the 7th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51795	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we have submitted, that is, the SDS parliamentary group – Boris Tadic – the ZZS, the amendment to Article 7, which considers this amendment to be very important, especially for the functioning of local self-government and Vojvodina. He's composed of the next one. In Article 4. The Law establishing the basis is laid down in Article 7(4) that the basis set out in Article 2(2) of this Article is unique for all employees whose salaries are paid from the budget of the Autonomous Province, i.e. from the budget of the unit of local self-government and cannot be higher than the base laid down in Article 1, i.e. those provided for in the Republic. We felt that the word "greater" should be replaced by the word "majority" for reasons which, if we wanted to preserve, to say, and some social level of all local self-government, i.e. to be completely comparable and worth it at the level of the Republic, is more logical that it should not be less, because you will have local self-governments that are not by their own fault, working in conditions that are, for example, border areas towards Kosovo or in southern Serbia, where by nature things do not have income sources that can give them enough money, where the transfer of funds is a very important item, you will have a situation where they are practically getting less wages, and this is not a positive relationship that the law should bring. On the other hand, this solution of ours will allow local self-governments that are not, say, cities, that they can, if they work well and have incomes that can pay off their own resources, they can increase that base and then be a reward for workers who work in local self-government who are efficient, expedient and who have bigger jobs. I personally know a good local self-government in central Serbia, the Svilajnac municipality, which, unfortunately, will be punished for what it has done, and has done that investments are somewhere over a billion dinars for the last four years. That would punish people who want to make progress. I think your relationship to the law and certainly the knowledge of business in Western economies that stimulate the development and improvement of certain environments should give you the right to accept this amendment which is essentially a good change that preserves the social status of those who are not able to pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51796	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51797	So to recap, in three months for the first time in years, the coefficients will get meaning, because the base for all employees will be the same, with the exception of an army that has a gross base, but we'll recalculate their coefficients, so they'll be able to see the same in the catalog. So, for the first time, it's going to be comparable coefficients, and for the first time, we're going to put some clarity into the woods of regulations that we have at this point. The second question is – can we and should we impose on local self-government costs that they cannot bear from their budget? Local self-government is self-government because it is responsible for its budget and for its capabilities. It doesn't mean that we have to introduce an injustice or differences that as a society we don't want to produce, but it means that we can't solve these differences to transfer to a local self-government that isn't able to finance it, but we have to find other means as a society. So, we can, if we want to be a society, determine that because of regional development or because we want some work, for example preschool education, especially to encourage, to adopt regulations that will determine that employees in these areas earn the same amount of money in the whole country or even more where less developed regions are, but we can't transfer that cost to local self-government if they don't have it in the budget, but we have to or we have to provide transfers that will enable them to make such budgets or provide instruments that will directly help local self-government pay for the kind of society we want them to pay. So it's not about introducing some kind of injustice, it's about introducing order, and justice is made by special regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51798	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51799	Mrs. Widowsky, I don't know if it's a lapus or a more serious mistake. Justice and what you just said is brought by my amendment, not by your member. How is it possible that you have now said that those municipalities that are poorer and have no money in the budget will have the opportunity to establish a lower base, and then you say, below, that the base is equal to everything, so either it's equal for everyone or it gives some the opportunity to bring down that base? Municipalitys that don't have money for wages can pay less wages, but they have no right to establish a lower base. The base must be equal for everyone. Whoever doesn't have the money, pay less pay, and the base has to be the same for everyone. That's exactly what my amendment allows, not your member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51800	Thank you. The People's MP Jovan Markovic has the word, and the People's MP Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51801	Dear Minister, no matter how much you avoided answering our amendments, and at some point you said that these were not fundamental amendments, in your statement a few minutes ago, where you said that this law, Article 7 and Article 8, found perhaps the most important things, which are coefficients and a unique basis, you confirmed that our discussion, which directed things in this direction, was precisely a major problem that in the previous four years, 50 and some thousands of people from the SNS were employed in Serbia and who were burdening the budget of local administrations. I was talking about Uzic where 200 people were employed in three years. Now you've said, the law determines the coefficient and base, but those municipalities that can't pay off the profits will change that base, instead of saying that all those people who've been irresponsiblely approach to the functioning of local administrations, because they've received a huge number of employees are at risk of functioning the system, they need to respond, they need to apply some of the other laws that we discussed here in the Assembly. Instead of all that, you said – no problem, now some people will have fewer salaries, and we said all the time that there was a huge number of people. For example, in education, the Master of Literature at this point receives a salary of 40 and a few thousand, people who have graduated from colleges receive very little profits. You have now sent a message that precisely because those people who have led to this system will stay out of the way, they will not respond, these people will still have reduced wages. This is about 500,000 people who expect solutions from you, and you just through these statements say that those who don't have the opportunity to pay their profits, because they've received so many people, they'll cut the basics and employees will have less salaries. That's inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51802	The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51803	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, we didn't seem to understand each other, because you have now explicitly said that there will be a practical reduction in wages. Just like you explained. We wanted this amendment, if you've brought a unique coefficient, it can't be smaller, it can be bigger if it has more income. You explicitly claim that you do not want to burden local self-governments that do not have enough resources. This means that 80% of local self-government, which is south of Belgrade, will make them cut their salaries and cut their salaries, and you forget that during this period of two years, you have burdened local self-government with many obligations, and you have reduced the transfers, so you have already put them in a position that they are on the edge and ultimately will pay for workers who work. We are against it and against the reduction of wages to people who do the same work as in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51804	On behalf of the members and members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51805	Coefficients as an important part of the law and art. 8 and 9 show what I was saying earlier, which is that there are completely pointless norms in this law. The first position of Article 8 says – the coefficient expresses the value of all job requirements. The following Article 9 introduces a corrective coefficient which is achieved on the basis of permanent conditions for the performance of operations and other permanent circumstances which arise in the tasks of the relevant workplace and which could not be taken into account in the evaluation of the jobs of the job. In Article 8, which is now a subject, we deal with the value of all demands, implies everything, 100% fact. So how does the need to make a corrective coefficient arise? Then these aren't all requests. It could have been said -- basic requirements, dominant demands, most important demands, but not all. If in point 8, Article 8(1) states “all requirements”, there is no logical, legal, nor philosophical, nor economic, nor any other, administrative logic that there is a corrective coefficient, if the coefficient set out in Article 8 expresses the value of all the requirements. I'd like to, no matter what the minister said she wouldn't answer, to still answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51806	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51807	No, no, I want to answer every time there's an argument. It's a perfectly valid question that you've now asked. You didn't use it to talk about the pay cut before I don't know when or what. It is very important for everyone, and this will happen in several other proposed amendments, to distinguish the value of the work of the individual and the value of the job. If you're all jobs, 500,000 people come down to under 1,000, I believe we're going to succeed, there are over 2,000 at the moment, that means that a lot of people are going to be working on different variations of the same job. For a job, you value all the requirements for typical jobs of that job. These typical jobs will be listed in the catalog. The exact criteria and logic on which the workplace is valued will be known. It's worth it by sorting into a canvas group, and for the sake of a more fine reading, so to speak, by sorting into one of the first three payroll classes of that pay group. But, let's just say, at this point, we had to struggle with some jobs being described as a job porting on this side of the street and on the other side of the street. That doesn't make sense. However, you have a job in court, e.g. The job in court is typical, it's the same in most courts. However, everything in the job description happens to be the same, and all of the job's demands are the same, but in the Court of Organized Crime, the situation is special, due to special risks. We could put jobs in the organized crime court. We don't think that makes any sense. A job is described which is the same, but when it is a job in the Court of Organized Crime, we expect it to be a corrective coefficient for this special condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51808	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51809	Here, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, the esteemed minister with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, I really propose that the amendment be rejected, for the reason that it is inadequate, unnecessary, negating, because it denies the determination of not only the coefficient, but also the basics, and that means it is not transparent. I must say, the amendment's proposings didn't mean it when this amendment was proposed. Imagine, gentlemen, educational workers, you who work in pre-school institutions, primary schools, secondary schools, higher education, you in health institutions, that a previous speaker along with academic congratulation proposes that the coefficient and base be abolished, in other words – be left without pay. I can't believe that's what a university professor and one former Prime Minister in this assembly are proposing. Indeed, if they did so, they would not even achieve the reforms that our Prime Minister has been all over the country, and not only advocates, but also implements the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the very public sector is one of the pillars of the overall reform that we are all in favour of in some way. I really don't understand why they proposed this amendment. With that more, which has never been more than 2,000 amendments when it was necessary to vote, but on three amendments. So, I don't think the proposal is appropriate, in a way and unserious. President-in-Office, in the end, since the amendment promoter insulted me in the sight of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of all the MPs, academic congratulation, at a special session, I call on him once again, because that is what his students are looking for, to apologize to me. I think since it's been two days, that academic honesty has worked or conscience, but if it really doesn't, I'm going to think it's really an act of personal education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51810	National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 8th amendment together. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51811	Dear Minister, we have tied this member to the coefficients, Article 8, to Article 7. We've been thinking about how to propose better solutions, but it's very difficult in this concept. What you just said is that, as you say, the initial coefficients remain the same, the base remains the same, therefore the salary remains the same. That's your line you said five minutes ago. Then came a statement saying that for all those local administrations that do not have the funds, the base is expected to be reduced. So that's also a statement from a few minutes ago. In the following statement, you said – should we impose a obligation on local administrations that they cannot respect? We talked here for months about how much local administrations were threatened primarily by SNS policy in the previous period and the Government of the Republic of Serbia which imposed huge obligations on local administrations, reduced transfers, we came to a situation that many cities and municipalities now lack the means to function. The town of Užice, for example, made a decision a month ago to owe 200 million dinars, explaining that most of the funds would go into current consumption and for wages. So now you're indirectally transferring the message that in the next period, all those local administrations, in this case, the City of Uzice, if they don't have the funds, and they won't have the means to make a decision to reduce the base and to reduce all people's profits. We have pointed out in several previous members how important it is to pay close attention to what we are saying and to the amendments we are proposing, you have avoided that opportunity and the confirmation that we were right is precisely this position relating to Article 8 and Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51812	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51813	I'd just like to take the opportunity to mention this base that can, if necessary, be smaller in the case of local self-government. We're going back to this law introducing order. It's one of the many steps we have to take to bring order into the country. How do we get him in? The coefficients measure the ratio of labour value, and the basis measures Serbia's payment power, as well as the budgets of local self-government units. Each unit of local self-government shall be responsible for its work and shall finance its work and its competence. So unless the local self-government unit has the means to coordinate and pay less wages than was the case with the republic, which reduced wages when we inherited a rapidly growing debt from the past by an irresponsible policy. We must be responsible in the future. This does not mean that the salaries of someone will necessarily be reduced, on the contrary, in most local self-government salaries are lower than they would be if all the coefficients were now converted to the same base and would most likely remain the same. We have also given an instrument for the rescue of extra employees, at the local self-government unit itself, to decide whether to fit into its budget by having a larger number of employees with a lower salary or a smaller number of employees with the same salary. It's the autonomy of local self-government. If as a society, if as a republic, as a Serb, we want some category of employees in the whole country to have the same salary, regardless of what is the paid power of their local self-government and we can arrange it. Then it's arranged by republican transfers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51814	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how does the SNS's vermin rule run local self-government? Here's how I'm gonna explain it. In 2009, another government inaugurated the City of Požarec for 493 million dinars with a foreign exchange clause to cover the daily liquidity of the City of Požarec budget. Now, it was done without an economic analysis of the effects, without any economic justification, on the euro rate of 90 dinars. The town of Požarec has returned 150m dinars of more credit, and it may be justified that every year because of the incompetence of the DS, which was then run by the City of Požarec, 20m euros of unspent money was returned each year due to the lack of projects, budget users in the city of Požarec's budget. And that was little more than you had to borrow the city. Why, to keep the bank's capital. You kept the capital of the banks, and that's why the citizens of the Fireman paid for the damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51816	Jovan Markovic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51817	Dear Minister, may I ask you once again to consider all this that we are talking about and the amendments we have proposed and that I also say that most of these people, mentioned today, who were once in the DS, are now at SNS not only in Pozarevec, but also in many other places, in many other local administrations. As a confirmation of what I've been saying all along, I want to tell you the following -- you took advantage of at some point in your exposure term when you say -- finer profiling, in the sense that those who are better able to read jobs, who take advantage of the opportunity to out of the existing mass, I mean, it's a bad term, you'll agree, make certain savings, they can choose. All the time I've been trying to tell you that there are countless examples, first of all, in local administrations where people who don't know why they've been admitted to certain jobs have been admitted in the past four years. For example, over 150 people were admitted to the pharmacy in Užica a few years ago, which is why people who are employed in that institution, after applying this law, are going to be punished for it. Instead of the one who has done this and received people needlessly, bearing responsibility, being removed, etc., we will now come into a situation that, by applying this law of the institution, the local administration, and also the ministries will come into a situation to say – we are reducing the base and thus reducing profits. You have allowed a wrong policy in the past three or four years, a huge number of people in Serbia to be on the verge of existence, that educated people, above all in education, in health care, in social policy, are now being punished further. They cut salaries over the past few years, those people over 20%, with the application of the new law and wages cut another 10%. What is particularly worrying, instead of saying that all those who do not know how to solve the issue of the number of employees will be replaced, that the mayors who are now taking loans because of the election campaign and are hiring people in public enterprises and institutions, that they will answer and will be replaced, that they will not get SNS support, you say – no problem, let them hire people as much as they can, do not listen to the election issue in the way it is intended, and then after the election what? After the election, we reduce the basics, there won't be a mass of profit, there won't be an opportunity to pay the wages and all those people who are worth, honest and professionally doing their jobs, who today don't have a chance to show their dissatisfaction, who haven't been able to watch the transfer from this Assembly for a long time, who don't know what they're preparing after these elections, as far as their jobs are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51818	The word has been given by the People's MP, Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51819	Right on the line. Memories of the name. First of all, Madam President, let me inform you, or I'd like to tell you that if I said anything about this pay phone, it was always true. If I was wrong some time, I was convinced I was right. That's the difference between us and the SNS, and those from the former regime. They tell lies and they know they're telling lies. They're talking about some party employment, and they made it. They talk about the Mayor of Pozharvec Miodrag Miki Milosavljevic, who spent three and a half million euros to protect the Pozarec water source and said – Povorec for 25 years does not have to worry about drinking water. A month ago, we lifted the emergency situation due to a lack of drinking water, and this one never set foot in the SNS, it was your exponent. What he's no longer with you is still your problem, because on your behalf and for you he's done everything he's done. You trusted him and supported him to be mayoral candidate again. Now that he's beaten by the SNS in the election, that's another problem. When he loses a man, then you give him up, and while he's in charge, he's good to you. Say nice, take out the exact information in which the municipality, name and last name. Don't let me bring you lists from the municipalities and find out where you hired all the people, see how much Bojan Pajtic hired in just a year, a billion dinars more has a payment fund. What are you talking about? Foreign employment, but about yours, none of ours. There is none of ours, wipe it out at last, otherwise this is how the people in the election will wipe you out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51820	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Dejan Nikolic, authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51821	Mr. President, first of all, for another reason, I answered. I don't know what you're letting them yell at us, here's my knees kneeling, I'm all scared. I called to ask you how long the DS parliamentary group has, so we can get a nice schedule and talk about the amendment. This nonsense, it doesn't touch us at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51822	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51823	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51824	Yeah, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51825	Thank you. Dear colleague Arsic, you've given me a chance to say in two minutes what's been going on in some context of the amendment I'd like to pass on to the minister. An example of the city of Nis. In 2012, at occasional and temporary jobs in the city of Nis and the city's institutions were engaged I don't know how many people, it cost about 200 million on an annual basis. In 2016, it is 800 million, 15 billion, the minister is out so she can't hear, once again, 15 billion in the Republic of Serbia's budget has been split into a temporary and occasional job position for 2016. That's 30,000 people with 30,000 dinar receipts. These people today are being employed before the elections in public enterprises, in public institutions, in city administrations. No more people can find chairs where they can sit. In Užica you have examples, where there were three employees in one workplace, or in one office, and now there are 15. We're talking about after these elections, someone's gonna have to pay for it. So, in addition to the 15 billion you're planning here for such activities and the loans you're taking in Užica, the decision was made a month ago to take 200 million dinars of credit to cover the current costs, to end the campaign that's being talked about here. And additionally after everything you plan to do in those positions you have planned and the next – after the election there will be no more money, wages must go even further down. There will still be punishment for people working in education, health care, local administrations...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51826	Since you asked for a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51827	... profit for who knows how much percent because of what...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51828	Thank you, MP. Can we go back to the amendment? Let's see that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51829	Come on, find me that amount in the budget. An exact description of the appraisal, find me that 15 billion. Find it. Come on, find it. That's the difference I'm talking about. You know what you're saying isn't true, but you have the courage and the cheek to say. That's why you're going to the election and don't be surprised anymore and you don't have to be afraid of me. You're afraid of choices, you're afraid of elections in Vojvodina, you're afraid of these too. You talked about the election, and you begged God not to come to them. Oh, he'll be here. They'll come and finally put an end to some stories. Get out of this party job talk. It's your auto-projection. When there was a story of cowardice, I described what a coward is - a bird that trickes another bird's egg. So party employment is cowardly tampering with the SNS. We don't want to keep quiet, and we're going to keep talking and repeating it, and while you're taking care of public administration employees and education and health care, we're going to remind them all the time that you're from those 400,000 jobs that the citizens lost, just the ones you're supposed to be representing right now, because they've been receiving salaries from the real sector and you've forgotten it, so when you destroyed the real sector, then you started borrowing the state. Once it's over, it's over. No more sale of state property and no more payment of unearned property. Just make it, except it's ours and whenever you attack the SNS to cut wages and pensions, ask yourself a question of how responsible you are as politicians and finally stand in front of the mirror once and tell yourself how responsible you are to yourself at least as people. Don't give yourself any more ashes, God damn it. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51830	Ambassador, we're about to enter a little debate on the amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Just this one more time.) Well, that's what everybody says. Don't use what I know will soon be an election, I'm letting you say everything you have, but we need to get back to the amendments. No more replicas I didn't promise you anything. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: You promised me a replica.]] Don't, let's just get this over with, and we'll move on to the amendment. There's still a lot of amendments, and I'm sure we'll tell each other everything we have by morning. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Okay, according to the amendment then. That's right, but you're not the bearer. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS together submitted the 8th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51831	Thank you, Your Honor. The Minister isn't here. I wanted to talk about our amendment to Article 8(2), which speaks of the initial coefficient being determined in the range of values of the initial three paid classes. Our amendment was to determine for the first time a working relationship is set at the lowest coefficient of the first pay grade group. This amendment has been rejected and generally speaks of the confusion that adoption of this law will bring, i.e. the fact that no clearer criteria and criteria for determining the coefficients and criteria for jobs will be. The bill promoter rejected our amendment, saying that the establishment and evaluation of the job or calling under the general rules on payment groups would be given in Article 14. Proposal for a law and criteria defined in Article 13. It's a bill of law. These criteria in Article 13 are: complexity of jobs, competence, responsibility, autonomy in work, business communication and particularly risky working conditions. It is then said at the end of the article that the closer criteria for applying the criteria set out in paragraphs 3 to 9 will be passed by special law. So this law will not define which job will be placed in which pay grade, or pay group. It will be done by some other law, in another time, by another organ. In our view, this does not all contribute to the transparency of this law, and therefore we felt that this law should be clearer with this amendment and other amendments. We did not expect, of course, that the minister would accept, or government this correction, because I think it is precisely the wish of the legislator that nothing should be clear after the adoption of this law, that some sublaws or laws are being passed in some indefinite amount of time, and that this job, which is big, is difficult and that two years should begin, will not go any further than this law, especially because we are going to have elections and this government will certainly not be able to continue to worry about solving this big problem that we have in the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51832	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51833	I'd like first to rely on the previous discussion, to repeat once again that this law will not cut anyone's wages, nor on employees in local self-government, except in exceptional situations where someone's salary bounces beyond any logic that will be seen when we edit catalogues and see who gets what it takes, and maybe now it receives a lot more. So, to be clear, the intention of this law is to establish relations, and in time to establish a system that, when wages are increased, will increase faster for those who are lower at a given time. As far as this discussion is concerned, I'd like to take another chance just to point out that when we're reading members, we need to think about the workplace, not the individual who's going to be worth his work afterwards. The workplace can only be valued in the first three classes of each payment group. When and if an individual has an increasing effect, the individual will then advance into the multi-paying group. But only the workplace is worth what we say – e, this is the job for the fourth working group, and within those jobs of all those in the fourth pay group, ranging from the first three classes that are about 12 to 14% are different, we can sort all the jobs. Well, they're gonna start 2% more than someone else. But whether someone starts a work relationship or not, it doesn't matter, it's what the job is and it's what we value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51834	Thank you, Madam Minister. On behalf of the members and members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51835	In the previous report, I was talking about Article 8 and the senselessness that if the first position says that the coefficient expresses the value of all job requirements, that there is even the possibility of being a member of the 9th with a corrective coefficient, because if this is all, nothing can be a correction of everything. Of course, there should be a pay difference in some matrix that's arranged compared to someone who works more, who has harder working conditions, more dangerous, etc., but this way doesn't solve it. Nor is it a reason that this law is an emergency procedure, overnight, over the weekend, that it is so urgent, because in the third position of this article it is said – conditions and circumstances under which the right to a corrective coefficient, as well as height, is determined by a special law. This means that even when this law is passed we will not have any new situation, but enter into some further process, where the mass of some other laws will have to define both the coefficients and the corrective coefficients and the jobs, the pay grade, the groups. These are all things that tell us that the billmaker has no clear vision of where he's going. I'm not arguing again, perhaps, with good intentions, but the realization of it is disastrous. The law was announced as an increase in pensions of 1.5%, it was for months, months and months, and it will pass as a reduction in subsidies for agriculture per hectare that was reduced by 300%, but no one mentions it alive. It's a secret no one can tell.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51836	Time, thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51837	I would like to, although I think I also mentioned it in the debate in principle, to explain once again why it is important for this law to be passed now, even though its application will only occur through the adoption of special laws for a time, that is. of 1 January 2017 As I mentioned earlier, a single base will be calculated in 90 days. Anyone who has tried to make 500,000 people with these dozens of basics that differ up to 19 times and with the forest of regulations that exist knows that this is simply an impossible task. In 90 days, we'll first get transparent coefficients, and in six months we'll have a ready catalogue to follow the rules. Without this law, we have no basis for this common foundation, nor for this transparent catalogue, for which we actually need different parts of the system, which normally work independently, to work independently of us. We are not able, it is impossible to fix this forest without first setting these conditions, and precisely because we want the wages to start being arranged in a different way since 2017, we need to have this law, adopted, to get the conditions, to get the work done under special laws. There's a new government coming, we'll leave them, at least, ready at least one of the key drafts of those laws, and probably two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51838	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51839	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm touched - my fellow farmer talks about reducing subsidies in agriculture. Finally to return to the profession and it should rejoice. But why are the incentives in agriculture reduced? That's right. But--why? Because in the past, over-use debt was made, so subsidies were taken by millionaires, and millions were given nothing, millionaires were, and he was proof of it. It gave birth to an apartment that seemed to me to belong to a well-known athlete, of 500,000 euros, in Vračar, with three garages. It's a little one-three. The remaining debts are 10.2 billion, out of four billion and out of four and a half, which has already been paid off. This government has paid about 18.5 billion debts for incentives, because the IMF does not allow incentives to pay off as much as we would like because they are taking away the debts of those millionaires who allegedly raised wine plantations and who have led to a certain arrest of officials, who have allowed such a kind of incentive. Most of the objections to Article 9 and to all the other members, where they ask to be deleted - wages, coefficients, etc., we have exactly one of those who deleted everything in front of them, establishing predatory capitalism, where, for the sake of their friends, the winners of transition, cleaned hundreds and hundreds of thousands of jobs, almost all of the economy, where, despite the state being reduced, which is only fired from private businesses, 400,000 jobs in total, where 400,000 people with coefficients in economy have transferred from income to the spent side and often I hear them asking to cut taxes and increase pensions and wages, almost incredible alchemy, because they did so by borrowing, so they think they should all do so. I often listen to complaints precisely from those who are the most responsible that farmers today do not have incentives in the extent to which the government has predicted, because minus the estimated amount of 200m euros must be subtracted another four billion, last year ten billion, for debts that occurred at a time when everything and everything was paid, when workers were left empty stomachs, empty pockets, to wander in the working suburbs, and that the winners of the transition went to Karakorum and Maldives, to eat lobsters. I haven't seen workers and peasants since 2000, since they came to power, that they have a boat on the Danube and that he climbed Fruska Gora, only to climb, and not to get a subsidy because he climbed Fruska Gora twice, because my fellow farmer, who complains about incentives and coefficients, was talking about the coefficients and coefficients he wasn't talking about, he got that correction of those coefficients by twice climbing Fruska Gora - and it cost 525,000 euros. It turns out that every climb on Fruska Gora was more expensive than that of Cedino and that the state cost 262,500 euros. That's why workers today can't go on vacation on Fruska Gora, have a boat in the Danube, while the winners of the transition, friends of the rotten DOS, as he said himself, friends of my happy candidate, fellow farmer, I want him to succeed, and that will be the government of the shadow, vanparliamentary, while they are squabbling on the Maldives in yachts, the people are left without bread, and in this business they need coefficients and correction to improve the state of poverty, their poverty is unsustainable to see, as it is unsustainable to see that someone, through incentives, take 525,000 euros, just because they have climbed to Frusta Gora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51840	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51841	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Becic, members of 106 and 108 have been injured. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, article 106, in all three positions and attitude 108 in all four positions. We have just begun, I think, a good parliamentary debate on these legislative projects and went member by member, convinced Minister Mr Becic that it is good to shed light on this legislative project at one night's session, the minister accepted, took part, and then the previous speaker, a fellow MP, decided to step out of the agenda topic. Is it the idea to discuss a legislative project or something that is not the subject of the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51842	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. In his presentation on the amendment, Mr Risticevic spoke about the coefficients, about the jobs, cited various examples, so he was skillfully able to explain why he felt that the amendment submitted by a group of MPs could not be accepted, so that I, as chairman of the Rules of Procedure, did not have the opportunity to react. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. But as I have seen, you have decided, both you and Mr. Markovic, to continue in the spirit of reporting to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51843	Article 103, and Article 107, I think they've been violated. In fact, my fellow doctor has often challenged my right to an even interpretation of the law and to amend the laws we call amendments. I've kept as many agendas as my fellow farmer. I did not raise the issue of incentives in agriculture, but my fellow farmer. I was just talking about coefficients, taking advantage of the opportunity to say what kind of collection it was in Fruszca Gora. It was my right, as my fellow farmer's right to address this National Assembly. Otherwise, while we are about literacy, which is often respected by me, in principle that I am illiterate, illiterate, etc., above all wanting to disqualify me, I must tell my fellow MP Pavicevic, who loves equality with democracy, this sanctuary of democracy, as I call it, I must tell him the following – when he at least uses it as a lecturer, as a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, I think it is a more correct expression to say "he is a broken member", not "injured". Only two members can be injured, and these are two members of the New Party, especially one who enters the congregation at five o’clock in a strange state, when someone stands by his hand in front of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51844	Please, Mr. Risticevic, bring the end. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) ) Mr Risticevic, you are right, perhaps that is why I should not give an explanation because I am surprised that the MP who pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Pavicevic, who very little, when it comes to amendments, is talking about the amendments that are the subject of the debate. All we can hear is the percentages and current ratings on the accepted or unaccepted amendments of the New Party. So, I would ask Mr Pavicevic to have someone else replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure next time, not the one who breaks the Rules of Procedure over and over again. I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Mr. Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51845	Dear Chairman, I point to Rule 107's first position as Rules of Procedure. I really don't know which way you're sitting today, and even in the previous sessions, I want to express, first of all, my dissatisfaction with your relationship with the opposition MPs, if you haven't noticed today, you've taken away all the MPs of the opposition who pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure's word, or in 40, 50 seconds, no one has come within a minute to explain their position. You allow MPs to talk about everything and everything, to insult us, and you accept it by hand. This relationship of yours, it insults intelligence, and I've been looking for exactly whether there's a member or some member's attitude that can explain it. I couldn't find it, but you certainly insult dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51846	I thank you, Mr. Markovic, although I don't understand why he reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because before you, Mr. Risticevic asked for an injury to the Rules of Procedure, he spoke for two minutes, I did not interrupt him, as I did not interrupt you, so I don't understand why you actually answered. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I explain? You can't. I listened to you, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: If you interrupt me a hundred times, if you interrupt Mr Pavicevic, then it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Markovic, the very public of Serbia is watching you interrupt me. That I listened to you. I am obliged, Mr. Markovic, to read the Rules of Procedure and to understand yourself in the Rules of Procedure and if you had read the Rules of Procedure, you would understand that at the moment you point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I must give an explanation, and you do not allow me to give an explanation. Because unculturally, you get in, throw, and you don't let me explain. I don't know what to do with you, Markovic. I will now read to you a member - the MP is obliged to list a member of this Rules of Procedure injured by the conduct of the President or the Chair of the National Assembly and to explain what these injuries consist of, so that he can speak for up to two minutes. So if this doesn't make sense to you, Mr. Markovic, I don't know what to tell you. I'm taking a break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Dr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51848	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 9 refers to the fact that the corrective coefficient is achieved on the basis of permanent conditions for the performance of operations or other permanent circumstances which arise in the jobs of an appropriate job which could not be taken into account in the evaluation of the jobs of that job. We suggested erasing this article because this is how you presented and explained the corrective coefficient and when it will be applied gives great opportunities, in our opinion of abuses, when the pay is later determined. I can't see, if you've already said, that the corrective coefficient will be used for police officers, for soldiers, which is why you haven't specified when to use it yet, or it's reserved for executives only. As far as I understand you from your exposure so far that this applies to the executives, and I don't see why their work would be valued and increased by a corrective coefficient. It's all measurable and I don't see where there's a reason why it's not clearly explained in the law for that reason we've suggested that this member be changed. What we've seen further through this law is that you've put the executives in pay groups and classes with other professions. I think you should compare that with each other. Let's say the Director of the Clinical Center with the Director of Post Office, I don't know, the Director of Electrical Distribution, and there's no way he'll be in paid classes with doctors, surgeons working at the clinical center. I think there's a mistake and there's going to be a big problem with the pay, as you say in 90 days or six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51849	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 9th amendment together. He's got a word for it. Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51850	Dear Minister, we are fully aware of your intention and motive to regulate these specific professions through these measures and proposals. But the fact that you use very often the terms you used earlier, that except in specific conditions, except in exceptional situations, etc., remain the same coefficients, remain the same wages, remain the same basics, but is always being added here somewhere except. This tells us that you are not really quite sure in which direction this legal proposal is going, or what is the ultimate outcome of what is expected. And if, I say, I already don't know how many times, that people really expect a lot from this law, that 500,000 people who are employed in the public sector and who have unfairly had pay and pension cuts because of very poor SNS policy, they expected to get a solution to certain things. We have now come to the conclusion that only 90 days from now will the question of coefficients be resolved, then six months from now that the catalogue will be produced, and certain measures will be applied only since 2017, some since 2018. Then you're texting us that you don't know which way we want to go. It was very important for us to see just all the specificities of jobs in every place and at all times. What is worrying is the experience of the past four years, where only party decisions, where only party interests are employed by people. It goes on in this direction that only by the decisions of party bosses you have a determination of who will work as a housekeeper in kindergarten, which will be paid by a waitress in kindergarten, janitors at school etc., etc. A very big difference has been made between jobs because one is a member of the SNS, and people who are either non-partisan people, or from the DS, have had a very big problem precisely because they belong to a specific occupation, or disagree with SNS policy. We expected a professional approach to solving the coefficient issue to bring justice. There's no such thing in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51851	On behalf of the members and members of the 10th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51852	Dear ladies and gentlemen, due to the grave disrespect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is what you do to Mr Becic, we MPs of the New Party will not continue to participate in this amendment, another night session of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51853	I'd say you have no arguments to argue with, but since you've been abandoned by a colleague, fine. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the 10th amendment. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51854	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Boris Tadic – SDS, the ZZS has submitted an amendment to Article 10, which provides for its erasure. The reason for this is because the proposed removal of a member who regulates the catalogue of jobs, i.e. titles and positions and functions in the public sector for several reasons, first calls and positions in state authorities is governed by the Law on State Authorities, in fact by officials, as well as by the Tax Procedure Act, the Tax Administration, the Police Act and so on. It is not possible for some sublaw to edit this matter. Here in the law, especially in this article 10th, this catalogue of occupation is practically, one according to us, a phantom act, which should be a single basis based on which it will be assessed in which rank will be defined, and which is consequently linked to many conditions, which will be passed in individual laws, which are not yet available, and are not even foreseen within a short period of time, and are also associated with laws that already exist and which relate to these special conditions, I have stated for a short time, means the Tax Procedures and Tax Administration and the Police Act. And it gets the impression that by doing this kind of act, that eradicating practically this amendment might be more precise, perhaps giving more time to the legislator to come up with a more organised and more serious way of classifying all these professions. Calling for a catalogue of professions and passing a law, or a special law, is not a convincing enough reason, nor should it stand as explicit in the law. We believe that by adopting our amendment, it will contribute to a more serious and comprehensive approach to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51855	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 10th amendment together. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51856	Dear Minister, given all the circumstances that follow the developments in the examination of the bill's proposal, taking into account the public debate, taking into account one view of the union which has been shown in the public debate and if it is not respected here. First of all, given the fact that for three or four years this government has been talking about this law, and that they are practically not achieved according to me and the basic and effective objectives, or the basic objectives and effects of the application of this law will not be achieved, that you have had great wandering in terms of compliance with services and institutions in terms of the number of public sector employees, inaccessible for a long time, that for two years you have had room to establish the number of jobs, that you were saying at the beginning that it was over 800,000 people, and then 450 thousand, 500 thousand people where Mr. Vulin is in the days when you say that there are about 500 thousand people in the public sector and that it is not such a terrible situation, come out with information that it is over 750 thousand people, we thought it was very important and useful and good to establish a catalogue of jobs and to establish through this kind of transparent approach how many people are employed, in which jobs they are working and what their further progress. What concerns us is the fact that this wandering condition is that we will probably not have this catalogue produced in due course, and particularly what is worrying is that you will receive information, views and decisions about this catalogue from people who in the last four years have practically ruined the public sector, who, in the previous four years, have poor work, primarily local administrations and businesses that have been in charge, made chaos, people who have employed a huge number of people in the previous four years, now have an obligation to meet their expectations through the coefficients and these catalogues, to pay them this part-time work experience, which will be the result of these people's work in these elections, and that all of us can't expect positive effects from the production of this catalogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51857	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51858	I would just once again remind all those who are watching and listening at this point to this debate, not to comment on the reasons of the amendments when they really have nothing to do with the logic of the law or the member himself, but I do it when I think it's necessary and it's a good opportunity to clarify the norms in this law that are complex, I have to say in the whole world, whenever someone is trying in a new job, I know it from experience, to understand until the end how pay classes work, where there is both progress and comparison of different jobs and so on, it's always a complex job and I just assure citizens, especially employees in the state of Serbia, that we will tirelessly explain and we are ready to explain to everyone any dilemmas regarding the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51859	On behalf of the members and members of the 11th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51860	Dear Minister, I will also tirelessly explain to the citizens of Serbia and my fellow MPs that the bill is very bad, that it is very bad that in such an atmosphere, on Sunday at 22:00 or at 23:00, or at midnight we are talking about a law that essentially determines the fate of 500,000 people and that the experiences that existed in the previous four years, when you hired, not you, but the SNS through its directors of enterprises and institutions, the president of municipalities, mayors, the army of SNS activists, have compromised the application of any law, including this law. In Article 11(1), this is about saying that the job, calling and position are placed in 13 pay groups, and that is the introduction to a later division by coefficients, the weight of jobs and all that you have predicted and there is a mention of independence in work, it requires independence, responsibility, business communication, competence. I always want to stress and it is natural and normal that employees are required both responsibility and competence. Here the problem is that people in the last four years as corporate and institution directors have threatened the functioning of these systems, because they have no responsibility, no professional calling, no work experience, no competences, and thus brought to great trouble all those employed who have committed, safe and professional jobs on their own. Therefore, in each of these articles, the amendment, we wanted to point out that, until this problem is eradicated which is the cause of all problems in the functioning of the system, it will not help you, or the duties that are planned by local administrations these days, nor these 15 billion that you planned in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and I cannot explain to Mr Arsic, as chairman of the Finance Committee, in which the money is held, but is certainly separate, for occasional and temporary jobs, which will be directed towards hiring SNS people for these elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51861	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 12th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51862	Dear Minister, as regards Article 12, this is about progress in the same position as set out in Article 2, on the basis of the results achieved, the work effects achieved above the standard or evaluation based on objective and criteria established in accordance with specific laws and yet another member who implies somewhere and it is perfectly natural and normal that there are such things in the bill, but the practice and experience that we have in the last four years has completely denied and denied. For this reason, I suggested that this third position be deleted, i.e. to accept reality, which is that in Serbia there has been no progress in expertise for a long time, no respect for responsibilities, and that people who have been trained, who have done their jobs properly, eventually experience being chicanated, to stay out of work. People who had college degrees have now come in a position to be in second place and until we solve these problems, until we set the system right, we can't talk about expecting progress from workers, that is, we will respect responsibility, diligence, expertise and commitment in every workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51863	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51864	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this is the only amendment the government has accepted from 149 amendments submitted on the proposal of this law. This amendment concerns Article 12, which speaks of payment classes and points out in point 4, the means to advance employees in the same job. We have seen that the government has made a failure, since the bill has already set out that an autonomous province, i.e. a unit of local self-government, can determine a different basis, it is logical to foresee, by its decision in the budget, the means to be allocated to progress. So we have complemented Article 4 by adding, erasing the point at the end of this sentence, and now it is said, paragraph 4 reads: “Part of the total amount of salary funds set out for the promotion of employees in the same job is determined by the Budget Act, i.e. by a decision on the budget of the Autonomous Province, i.e. a unit of local self-government.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51865	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 13th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs: Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, together submitted the 13th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Article 13(1) states: “The classification of jobs, i.e. the calling and position of paying groups, is carried out, starting with the criteria for the evaluation of jobs carried out in the appropriate workplace, i.e. in the appropriate calling or position. “ We suggest that this attitude reads: “The classification of jobs, i.e. calling and positioning in paying groups, is done from the description of jobs, i.e. titles and positions established by special law, as well as from the criteria for the evaluation of jobs carried out in the appropriate workplace, i.e. in the appropriate calling or position. “ The amendment proposes to take special care of the description of the calling and the positions governed by special laws when setting up jobs. Please think again. I think our addition to the article makes the member more quality, clearer and precise.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51867	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51868	I said when amendments aren't used to replace thesis, they're held by some, in my court, honest attempt or misunderstanding, I want to clarify why we refused. The job description is in the catalogue and, of course, it is the starting point, so there is, and based on the job description, in fact, on the typical jobs in the workplace, the job in the pay group is classified and determined by the first three paying classes. However, as it is classified, that is what this member explains, and that is by which criteria. So, on the one hand, you have a description. Of course it's a starting point, and as it's classified, what this member describes is criteria. I'd like to take this opportunity to point out, these criteria this time show comprehensively what defines the value of one job. So far, the tendency in our society has been to stress only the expert's preparation, the school's preparing. We have here clearly defined that account is taken of both responsibility and specific working conditions, such as risks to which someone is exposed and communication and further autonomy in work, competence also. So it's a couple of different aspects of work that, to say the way, some aspects will be important, in other activities, other aspects, and it's important to take them all into account, if we think about comparing jobs that are going to be about 1,000, along with calls, that describe jobs that do 500,000 people. It's going to be a big deal, and that's why we've divided this job into a few special laws, and that's why this job is going to last until the end of this year. We haven't tried to avoid anything, but we are trying to make it possible in the most careful and just way to sum up everything that the employees in Serbia are doing in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51869	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51870	Article 13(2) speaks of the fact that business evaluation criteria are the complexity of jobs, competence, accountability, autonomy in work, business communication and particularly risky working conditions. Absurd of what is mentioned here, I have added some other things, a little ironic, should stand out that there is loyalty and many other things, but I want to point out that in the previous four years in the public affairs system in Serbia, I really want all these criteria in some way not only in the law but also in the practice of confirmation, but I still want to point out that a huge number of people in the previous four years in the public affairs system in Serbia were damaged, not only through pay cuts, but because in very responsible functions, in very responsible places people who did not deserve to be in those places and who, by their actions, did not do so, in revenge, abuses, etc., have actually compromised the functioning of the system. A large number of people who have worked responsibly, professionally and professionally in their jobs and who have respected these criteria and it is not true that for the first time today we are imposing on the public sector, public enterprises, public institutions, preschools and schools to determine the coefficient in this way, i.e. to accept a job. Isola's more serious institution and institution have separated the weight of jobs, separated by professional preparation, but also by responsibility, by specific tasks, etc., what every job is and that's not news. The news is that in the last four years, we've allowed people without a diploma to manage those people who have diplomas, that people who have never created anything are the judges of those who have done something. That those who are in political, say, powers are punishing all those people who are professional in their jobs, that those people who are doctors or teachers in schools or in some health institutions have a reduction in wages because some executives can't manage these systems. What is it about people who are employed in schools who are to blame for the fact that the principals have come or why people in health care are to blame for having incompetent directors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51871	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 14th amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. At the name of the member and member of the 15th amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukković, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and joint MPs Jovan Marković, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac together. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51872	Dear Minister, we have had in this article, this is one of the most important members, we have had plenty of space, that is, a lot of opportunities to express our slightly different attitude, we have decided precisely because of the time we have, which is rudely little for such an important law. Let me remind you one more time, we received a proposal from this law sometime Thursday night with an obligation to apply all amendments by Friday at 5:00. We've been trying as hard as it is for us to make best suggestions, but it's impossible to consult the resolution committees or the expert public or people who are interested in getting involved in this and it's impossible to make any suggestions. We've decided to single out these points that apply, so point 10 and point 13 that specifically refers to professional preparation, and I want to point out once again to you the fact or the problem that this political option, this government, the SNS, has humiliated educated people in the past four years, that we've paid the highest price as a society and that we're just going to pay because you've so rudely cut people's salaries in education, health, culture, local administrations. I think the basis that starts with is not good, that, first of all, it was important to respect once again, regardless of the difficult conditions in which the state works, all those people who can be the moto development of society, the moto development of some of their institutions, some of their environments in which they function and work. If we continue with this base to apply this law and these people get another pay cut, and that happens after the election, we're going to have a huge problem, people give up, people don't work anymore, people are going down the line of less resistance, and you have a system collapse at every turn. If this law was aimed at justice, if it aimed at raising efficiency in the work of each institution, then the first and initial basis had to be to respect knowledge and work. In this case, it's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51873	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51874	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honors Madam Minister, this Article 15 is a table. I mean, it's not even in the very reasoning of the law given why he looks like he does, that there are some pay groups of nine pay classes, for some just three, for some just five. You said yourself, that varies from 12 to 14% of the range between the first three paid classes. What is particularly interesting is your reason for not accepting this amendment by colleagues who have submitted an amendment to this article, says that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that it is not true that there will be a reduction in wages by an additional 10%, and then you say – namely, the expenditures of the coefficients of paying groups and paying classes represent a numerical expression of the classification and evaluation of jobs, and only by multiplying these coefficients with the basis established by the Budget Law after the application of this law will know the height of the salary. So you don't know what that pay height is going to be, whether it's going to be smaller or bigger, or you're saying it's not going to be 10% smaller. And we're telling you it will be. And we'll see in a year or so, you think we'll see, we won't see. Fortunately the elections are coming, so the government will change. But your intention is that when you implement this law, when that point of reckoning comes, the basics and everything you've written, that these salaries will be less, maybe not 10, maybe nine, or I don't know, some other percentage, but the fact that this government's policy was the last four years, and in particular the last two years, was to cut employees' salaries, cut past work, cut special legislation, cut pensions by special law, which is deeply against constitutional and unfair, and in various other ways. This is only one way, but fortunately, I repeat, elections are going on, and the citizens will have the opportunity to devastate you in your intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51875	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51876	As I said, I don't respond to discussions that are trendy, but in this case there are two legitimate issues, or there are some sources of confusion that I want to clarify. One, the government's policy was, first of all, to save the country from financial bankruptcy and it was done in one move, and since then, as far as I know, there's only been an increase in wages, not their reduction. If economic trends continue, such as so far, including revenue collection growth, as well as structural reforms that the government is conducting at the moment, I am confident that the next government will also be able to pay further. That, if she does, she'll work over the base. Yes, it's true, it would be irresponsible at this point to claim that we know what the basis is going to be. But if these trends continue, they will be such that multiplying these coefficients will be possible to increase wages. At this point, I just want to remove two possibilities of confusion. One is that, since there is one matrix of coefficients currently in the Civil Service Act, whose highest coefficients are higher than the coefficients in this matrix here, it may be a mistake for some people to think that the most paid people are reducing wages in the future. No, that's not true. Again, we can explain the details, but the pay range expected by applying this matrix is true from the minimum wage to the highest salary in the public sector that today applies. So, no, there's no matrix that's expected to cut the highest earnings. As we got to this matrix, that's the second answer. We came here on the basis of the study of international practice, with consultations with the World Bank and based on the empirical analysis of what our profits are today and where we think there are disproportionateities. I'll explain a little more in other interventions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51877	Time. Thank you. On behalf of a member and a member of the 16th Amendment in the same text... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I have the word? In order for someone to get the word, they have to answer. On behalf of the member and member of the 16th Amendment in the same text, together the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: How can I answer when you have not read my amendment? Mr. Markovic, I don't understand. I read the amendment, which was submitted together in the same text by the MPs Zivković and Pavićevic, together with the MPs Natasa Vukovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, together with the MPs Jovan Marković, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Dragan Sutanovac. According to that amendment, they spoke, and the minister also spoke. You didn't sign up, you weren't in the system. Now you expect me to be psychic that you want to report for the amendment, and you don't even listen, you haven't heard that I've read the amendment. I don't understand you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: How did I not sign up? I ask to talk about the amendment to Article 15.) Unfortunately, we've moved on to the next amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: What was I supposed to do? Just to sign up. When someone wants to speak from the MPs, press the button on the unit and sign in. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have been reported. Well, if you had been reported, you would have been in the system. (Jovan Markovic, from town: incredible. Well, it's amazing what you're doing. Don't follow the debate and then expect me to be psychic, that I know when you want to pick up. It's really not right, Mr. Markovic. It's the only problem I have with you, from session to session, that's the only problem with you. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: You have this with the others. That's why people came out. I don't. I don't have that reporting problem. I only have with you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: If you want me to come out, just say the word.) ) Mr Markovic, just to sign up when you want to speak, as did the other MPs, as Mr Djurisic, Deputy Prime Minister and all others who report for debate. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 16th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51878	Article 16 speaks of the basic salary of the officials. The basic salary of the functionor shall be determined by multiplying the base laid down in Article 7 of this Act and the coefficient for the calculation of the basic salary of the functionors established in accordance with the specific law. The coefficient for the calculation of the base of salary of the officials referred to in Article 1 shall be determined depending on the criteria of responsibility in the performance of the duties and certain functions, i.e. the handling of the bodies or parts of the body, etc. We propose that this whole member be changed and that the salary of the officials is determined by multiplying the basis of Article 7 of this Law and the coefficient of 11, 12 and 13 of the paying group, depending on the complexity of the business he performs. The amendment proposes that salaries of officials should be governed by this law, not by speciality, given that the description of paying groups can also cover the tasks performed by officials. I think it's a lot better than making, calculating a special base and a fee coefficient for a functioner and I think you should accept our member. As for the demands of those unions that I was talking about at the beginning, the Health Workers' Union, they will be classified as payment groups without possibility, as you say, will be raised wages, will not be raised, as these salaries are paid out of contributions to health insurance, which were reduced from 12.2% a year ago to 10.2% to pay 2% to go towards pensions, so that pensions in the Republic of Serbia are less touched by 310m euros from the budget. So I think you should have looked at health care professionals better, but, on that point, that's how it is. I hope, as counterpart Marko Djurisic says, that in the next election we will be able to get a chance to resolve it slightly differently and better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51879	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51880	Let me explain this matrix a little more. First of all, let me point out that we have 13 pay groups. The job or calling is classified according to complexity, and already those other criteria that we listed, jobs that are typical of that job in one of the paying groups, when it's worth that job or calling. Then employees who achieve greater impact, exceptional impact, order job quality etc., can progress. How exactly will progress, this is the biggest task we have in determining special laws in the coming year, because at this point progress is defined and carefully explained only for civil servants. Teachers, health workers, cultural workers, so far, they have no concept and that concept and these systems have to be carefully designed and worked out. Why there are more paying classes for promotion in higher paying groups – because higher paying groups have jobs in which there can be a greater range in effect. The fact is that in some of the simplest jobs, such as a porter or something, the effect can't vary six or seven times. It's in line with international practice. Finally, to answer the question about the officials, although we'll talk about it a little bit more when we get to that member. The salary is primarily expected to be determined in relation to the responsibility it carries, and that responsibility is, in most cases, not all cases but where the functioner is in a leading position in relation to the employees of the system, that responsibility must be measured by the work and the impact of the employees with which he works. Therefore, the matrix is difficult, it will be possible to sum up some of the officials in this matrix, but not necessarily all of them, but the law on the earnings of officials will determine how much their responsibility and measure, summed up with this matrix compared to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51881	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 16th amendment. Please sign in now, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51882	Dear Minister, this amendment that we have submitted to this member, which is very important, speaks of the responsibility of officials and I must refer to what you said in your previous statement, that the policy of this government, as you say, was to save the country from bankruptcy. My view is that you had a policy to put as much money into the budget as possible and thus show major reforms in Serbia, means that you have brought bankruptcy into many houses, in many households, in many families in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51883	Mr. Markovic, what's this thing you're saying about the amendment? I'll read the amendment for citizens. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I will now say.) You can't right now, right now. I have to read the amendment that you're not talking about, and you're complaining that we're not allowing the chairman of you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: You let everyone else go. ) Thus, the text of the Bill of Law, Article 16(4), ‘The basic salary, i.e. the fee for the work of the officials referred to in Article 3, shall be governed in accordance with the law and the other regulation governing their position, proportionate responsibilities in the exercise of office in a given function. “ You asked to delete this article. I'm just asking you to talk about your reasons for asking me to delete this article. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51884	How do you give me your word? Are you giving me the Rules of Procedure or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51885	I give you my word on the basis of the amendment. I only interrupted you to read the amendment currently under discussion, so that the Serbian public knows what amendment we are talking about now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51886	Thank you, but your attempt to defocus me every time I speak is really pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51887	No, Mr. Markovic, I have to ask my MPs to talk about a member who's the subject of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51888	So I had two introductory sentences, Mr. Chairman. Now I want to say that one of the very important things why thousands of families in Serbia are bankrupt is precisely the irresponsible behaviour of the officials we are talking about in this amendment. So, the latest inscriptions, where, let's say, the governor of the National Bank, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, announces a tender for a new uniform for her employees, so not to mention, the public knows what is going on and what was the subject of that procurement, are talking about exactly what the minister was saying, about the bankruptcy that is happening in Serbia. On my case, I can confirm to you how this campaign is implemented, how in bankruptcy is the local administration, how it is in the bankruptcy of the state, and then behind that you have irresponsible officials that you can hardly reward, that's what I mean, who are willing to buy new cars, which raise their wages, raise their own diaries, who have the state property as they want, because they're standing in the shade of Alexander Vukic's rails and they can do whatever they want. What I'm saying is that this amendment that we've proposed, and this member that we're talking about here, will not be enough to correct that situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51889	And you're aware that you've abused the Rules of Procedure. But I let the citizens of Serbia see it too. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51890	Your Honored Chairman, he has been injured by your chairmanship, Article 27, which says the president is looking after the implementation of the Rules of Procedure. So, you try, whenever you think and don't like the discussion of one of the opposition MPs, to remember a member of the 106th and the obligation to speak on the subject. A short time ago, the Minister, after she had not arrived and spoke for more than two minutes, to speak about the amendment to Article 15, then, after our amendment to Article 16, she continued to speak for a minute and 50 seconds about the amendment to Article 15, trying to explain that matrix, because two or four minutes were not enough for her. And you've done all of that. And then a colleague of Jovan Markovic's in the first sentence, when you thought you didn't like his discussion, broke up and started to explain to him that he had to talk about the subject. I'm just asking for the same archaic to everyone. So, it's not a problem for me that the Minister on our amendment to Article 16, which is about the salaries of the officials, is talking about a matrix for calculating the coefficients of Article 15 minutes and 50 seconds, and then continues for over two minutes to match our amendment and the arguments we gave her. I don't mind, but I want to hear it, because we didn't have enough time in the principle debate, we don't discuss normal times, government arguments. Then I beg you for the same archaic. If Mrs. Secretary can do it for more than two minutes, maybe one of us can do it for a second. If the Minister can talk about a completely different amendment and another member, then I guess we can, or no one can. Just have the same archaic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51891	You can see you've been talking for over two minutes. As some of your MPs speak professionally about the subject, it is no problem at all to speak longer than the time they have at their disposal. I wouldn't say anything further, because in your claim to break the Rules of Procedure, you said everything, and who violated the Rules of Procedure, which is why he violated the Rules of Procedure and I interrupted him. As far as the government's representatives are concerned, he has three hours to discuss, has two minutes per amendment, but because of the interests of the Serbian citizens, if an explanation is needed to give you an explanation, which is why you submitted the amendment, we can tolerate a representative of the government if he does not spend the three hours at his disposal. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, who's been talking about the wrinkles, and they've decided to delete, delete or delete this on the salary of the officials, as far as I can understand. I think I understand very well that it's a member of the 16th, the salaries of the officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51893	Go on, Mr. Risticevic, don't let this throw bother you, I'm talking about this amendment you haven't discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51894	Now I'll tell you why they're getting it. They know very well what I'm going to say. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: What nonsense, I can't imagine) They know very well, not just you about the nonsense, please. Their officials these days, the vice president of the former regime's party, are talking about the milkman. The official who has received a salary of 12 years in the Indji municipality, two years in the province as Vice President of the Duke of Duchy, as vice president of that party, which they themselves call "probative evil," I don't, themselves say it's rotten, I don't, but I can agree. It was so rotten that it was by taking off the kamacks during their function that they opened it to the milkman. Imagine, they take off the Kajmak before they open the dairy. They can throw, they can't confuse me. This stripping took time while the people's husband lasted, and then the rest for the milkmaker. It was also for Dubai, skiing in July at plus 45 degrees, of course your clerk doesn't know what those salaries were...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51895	Mr. Risticevic, I have to interrupt you now, because the gentleman you mention is not a government official, nor was he a functioner, so don't talk about the subject right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51896	As far as I know, the basic salary of the functioner. I'm talking about officials. Salaries were so high that they could fly to Dubai 10,000 euros a day. Skiing, says a little trumpet, smells freon, then skiing in Slovenia. He skied so much that he thinks we sent him to the Olympics, Goran Jesic would bring a medal. Then there's the rest of it for the closed pool. All from the salary of the officials. I'm not saying this is true. Everything from the salary of the officials closed pool in the village of Putinci, the municipality of Ruma. Here's Mr. Martinovic. He had such conditions if we had sent him to the summer Olympics and there he would have won, Phelpsu would have been the main competitor, he would have reached Cavic, at the same time Cavic had nowhere to swim. He had nowhere to train. That's how they did it, and now they're asking to delete Article 16. - The salary of the functionor, I know why, it's gone to a lot of trouble, Maldives, this, that. The wealth of these officials does not come from wages, this wealth comes from the accidents of millions of people so that they can create millionaires from themselves and their loved ones. I do not claim that they are enlightened evil and that they are rotten, as they call themselves to one another. It would have been easy for us to feed the poor, but we couldn't feed those that I had led to the rich, greedy officials. They've never had enough. You don't need the poor to be ashamed of their poverty. They came to him with hard work, these rich officials and their friends should be ashamed of their wealth, because they came to him with hard work, but someone else's huge work by millions of people who were out of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51897	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Mr Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51898	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Article 109, which in its 2nd position says the speaker should receive a warning if, despite the warning of the National Assembly president, he speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. I think you are aware that you are in time, so for a minute and 50 seconds you have warned Mr. Rističević that he should talk about the subject, and then everything with that beautiful smile, with one special pleasure, you have followed up on what he's saying by five minutes, and it has nothing to do with the subject he's talking about. I've been expecting you to stop that speech all along, ask him what kind of connections we're having with this subject, and I'd like to remind you, since you're used to talking here about the responsibility of the officials, in this case it's about officials who are in power, who are in this fourth position... (Alexander Martinović, from the post: The Vice President is your official. There's no point throwing it, you can turn around and tell Mr. Martinovic not to throw it at me next to all of them. I don't think it makes sense, that he, as a prominent official of the Serbian Progressive Party, throws it away. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: What doesn't make sense? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51899	Mr. Markovic, before I give you a measure and take away the time you've abused with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to have to tell you something. First of all, Mr Markovic, first of all, it is incorrect of you who have abused the Rules of Procedure in the same way, I did not punish you, following a warning I gave you for the same speech that you gave to Mr Risticevic, and you are afterwards asking me to punish your colleague for the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you did in your presentation. That's a little incorrect, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Can you say something like that? I have to say so. Did I interrupt and tell you not to talk about the subject? I did. Did I punish you? I didn't. I also interrupted Mr. Risticevic, I did not punish him, and you have now reported to the Rules of Procedure to complain why I did not punish Mr. Risticevic. I think it's really incorrect of you. Mr. Markovic, you're a master of physical culture. You were the president of the municipality. It's incorrect what you're doing. (Jovan Marković, from town: Mayor. Mayor, I apologize. It's incorrect, Mayor, Mr. Physical Culture, it's incorrect that you're doing this. That your colleague, who has broken the Rules of Procedure in the same way as you in your presentation, is asking me to punish you, and I did not punish you, and especially after that, Mr. Djurisic criticized me for interrupting you at all, because he thinks we should talk about everything and everything. I can only give you a measure and take away the time you used to abuse the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. It's two minutes away from your MP's time. Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 17th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandar Jerkov put together. On behalf of the members and members of the 17th Amendment, MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac together. Do you want a word? Here you go. National MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51900	Mr. Chairman, it would probably suit you the most if I went out and stopped this agony, but I'm not going to do it, of course, despite the fact that you've been trying to deny me the right to talk about topics all the time. As regards Article 17, we felt that, in addition to this formulation relating to the members of the Serbian Army and the resolution of the elements of their salary and engagement, it should be considered that similar circumstances are foreseen for the police of the Republic of Serbia, given all the temptations and challenges faced by members of the interior ministry in various situations, in various circumstances and in various circumstances. We are fully aware that you have made this bill a populist step in that sense to say that you have solved certain problems, but your statement by a respected minister a few minutes ago, when you said that from the general criteria for determining progress and increasing earnings for educators, for workers in education and for workers in health care, you have actually confirmed all the words we have spoken in the previous period, that this law is not comprehensive, that this law opens up many dilemmas. I am particularly sorry that you missed the opportunity to raise salaries for people in education and health care. Do you know that day-to-day kindergarten maids work for 22 or 23,000? Do you know that people with a sixth degree, say, professional equipment have a 50-euro lower salary than they had three or four years ago? Do you know that these people also have families and that they should support their families? Obviously, the minister is busy. Do I have more time? Obviously, both Mr. Becic and Mrs. Minister are busy on some other subject, that what I'm talking about doesn't matter to them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51901	Time, Mr. Markovic. Unfortunately, you no longer have the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51902	I've just heard that we've missed an opportunity to raise our salaries to teachers, health workers, and so forth. First, they were first raised and paid the most when there was space in the budget that we earned from policies that we have carefully and fiscally implemented over the past year. Secondly, as far as I can see, there are a number of amendments now that are all equally based on a populist proposal that for every salary increase established by this law increases this increase from 26% for overtime to 30%, from 110% for work at night, on Sundays to 120% and so on. I'm just asking whoever's defending these amendments to say where these increases will come from? Are we going to cut the amount of money that pays the basic profits, so that there are more payments to be made, or are we going to increase the taxation of citizens so that we can raise funds to increase the profits of those who work in the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51903	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, together. Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 18th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51904	Here, since the minister kindly asked us to tell you where to raise the profits and wages, even though she has now come out, even though she said it was a matter of populism, should we stop the exposure until she returns after she has asked for advice, or should I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51905	Go on, Mr. Markovic. The moment is just a minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51906	But she asked for advice, I can't tell her if she got out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51907	Please, your associates will convey everything you say. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51908	With your time back or without?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51909	I'll give you back your time, these 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51910	Well, one of the proposals that the minister needs to hear is about this second point of the second position, that's the issue of the leadership that we have proposed here in the amendment, and one of the central issues regarding this law is this very relationship between the management, between the officials and the way this policy option thinks. If we respect that if we propose amendments, we should also say how to finance the money for what we suggest from overtime, etc., and the first thing you say - do you want to raise taxes? I'm asking you, well, it's rude to suggest such a thing because you've raised taxes for these four years to the extent that people can no longer pay taxes on property, or the various taxes you've introduced. People can't pay public service prices because you're foolishly increasing both the water price and the price of heating and the price of utility services just because you have the political, how can I say, power that hides all the work, the reporting of your people who run both local administrations and large public systems. So, no more taxes, no more public service prices, no more taxes, no more taxes, no more work. The solution if you're looking for, the advice is to just roll up your sleeves, place people who know how to work in important places, and you'll have better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51911	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS as you can see of every amendment talking the same way. Whatever amendment comes, they're the same floscules. I would invite DS MPs and new DOS MPs to call on their officials to stop stealing and stop misusing the province's assets. I don't know if Mr. Jovan Markovic is familiar with the fact that here's all the media in Serbia that right now, Mr. Jovana Markovic, in the so-called so-called. Moša's villa near Novi Sad, owned by the AP Vojvodina, not DS, not Bojan Pajtic, is holding a meeting, now you will hear who, people who, you imagine, say to themselves, Serbia's future. They are an alternative to SNS – Bojan Pajtic, Cedomir Jovanovic and Boris Tadic, all of some new people. No one participated in the government, no one was responsible for anything, no one stole anything, no one did anything wrong for this country. All some new fresh, young faces, new energy, new solutions, unscathed people, clean hands, clean consciences, etc. Whoever attends that meeting, Mr. Jovana Markovic, I don't know if you know that name. They say that the new business director, that's what's called a function in your party, business director of DS, certain Amir Bislimi and even more famous official DS Dusan Elezovic, the man who brought Momčel Milovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51913	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51914	What time? Talked according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51915	You're on the amendment, and you're not on the line. I'm sorry, Mr. Martinovic, since you had the right to a replica, I thought... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51916	No, no, no, talk about the amendment. The amendment concerns Article 18, paragraph 3. These are all managers and Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic and Cedomir Jovanovic and Amir Bislimi, the business director of DS, and Dusan Elezovic. They're all your executives. In a villa called Mosina Villa, which is called because it was used in time by communist official Moshe Pijada, near Novi Sad, a new DOS is being agreed. And as you can see, Jovan Markovic, behind you, look around, there's no one. They make arrangements to make some new DOS to cross the censorship and then they leave you here to talk about every amendment the same way. Now I ask you, you who lecture us on honesty, morality, why there are abuses, etc. Why do you now abuse the province's property for party purposes? Why do you not hold these meetings in your party rooms, but in a building owned by the AP Vojvodina, the AP Vojvodina is neither the ownership of DS nor Bojan Pajtic, nor Boris Tadic, nor Cedomir Jovanovic. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as the SNS is concerned, you can make no new DOS, but 100 new DOS. You'll be as bad as you were when there was that first DOS. Just don't ask you to lecture us on honesty, on morality, on legality, and here tonight you are making a new DOS in a building owned by the AP Vojvodina with all business director Amir Bislimi. It will be people who will represent an alternative to the SNS. They're gonna open new jobs? They're gonna raise wages? They will provide social security, Bojan Pajtic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Boris Tadic, Amir Bislimi, Dusan Elezovic, Momcilo Milovic? Please don't, what alternative is that, and what kind of executives are these? So, please answer my question, since your colleagues, here, have left you alone, how is it possible that party meetings are held in a building owned by the AP Vojvodina? Just answer that question, and then we'll go on, see who's to blame for why there are no more jobs, who robbed Serbia's budget, the Vojvodina budget, the Investment Capital Fund, who stole from the province's secretariats, of which Cedomir Jovanovic sang to Ande, sang who knows where on the world's mountains. What did Boris Tadic do while he was president of the Republic? What did this Dusan Elezovic do while Momcilo Milovic squandered the money, so instead of building a home for the disabled children "Hetherland" in New Vienna, he bought an apartment from the company that was supposed to make the home? Stop a bit, question yourself, and first of all answer the question of how is it possible that party meetings, here tonight, at 25 minutes to 23 hours, are held in a building owned by the AP Vojvodina? I'll tell you how it's possible. Because you're used to privatizing the state. We had a private state at the time of the DS and we still have, I think maybe still at the top of the flesh for a day, a private AP Vojvodina, but we're going to break up with that practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51917	Please, Mr. Martinovic, today is not the day to ask questions, and this is not the government. Please bring your exposure to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51918	All these executives of yours from article 18. The bill of law and your amendment that you have proposed, count at the end... Don't get up, I'm not done yet. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why? You can stand, I don't mind. So, all of your executives, Bojan Pajtic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Amir Bislimi, Dusan Elezovic, Boris Tadic, etc., when the elections are over, they will have to leave Mosina's villa and the district government building and hold their meetings in party rooms. Of course, on one condition, that after the election you will ever have, either of you, an organized political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51919	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51920	These are probably those old channels from the radical party. Laufer called in where he was and who he was with. We expect further reports from those meetings. We may be able to discuss whether the AP officials are sitting in the AP facilities, who they are sitting with and who they are talking to and whether it is good or not, but what is quite certain, when they end this mandate, and those as well as when the previous mandate ends Boris Tadic, he left out of those facilities where he worked, and he did not have an apartment of one or two ar, as your president after less than a year in his first state office as Minister of Information in the Government of Slobodan Milosevic, when Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, during the time the bombs fell on Serbian citizens' heads, moved into his apartment from an aria he received from the government. Your former party president moved into a two-ar apartment, and that's all he had left, and he took it all from the citizens of Serbia. None of these officials were taken by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's a big difference. You've never been able to explain it. Of course, after these elections, we won't have any problems with work or censorship or anything...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51921	It's been two minutes, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51922	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll be done now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51923	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, a replica. I apologize, Mr. Markovic, for not answering your question earlier, which is why I have a smile. I got word that in Novi Milosevic, in the municipality of Novi Vienna, the SNS took victory 15 to 2 for the local community. That's why he was smiling at me, not at the presentation of any of the People's Messengers. So, I'm sorry to bother you. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51924	Mr. Becic, I'm glad you're in the mood, but I'm very sorry that you abuse your function and your position in various ways. You just let Mr. Martinovic speak outside the subject six minutes ago, you warned him on the fourth minute, but the man continued. He's the authority, you can't tell him anything, and that's fine. But you are the President of the Assembly, you are the President of Parliament, where the interests of citizens are protected, and you should prevent him from saying anything that has nothing to do with the subject. So, if I opened the topic, Mr. Chairman, that the SNS, that this government for the previous four years has brought thousands of families to the brink of bankruptcy, that there is a reduced salary, that there are reduced pensions, that in each house you have reduced the incomes of 15, 20, 30,000 dinars, don't let the answer to all that, the response to the bankruptcy of the family in Serbia be what we have heard, which has nothing to do with the amendment. That's what your problem is. As for the amendment, to return to the amendment and tell Mr. Martinovic in the replica to his presentation, the salaries of health workers, doctors of 40,000, have been cut by salaries to teachers in primary and secondary education of more than 20,000, have been cut by salaries by pharmacists over 30,000. You've made a bankruptcy family in Serbia for the past four years. It's the leadership I was talking about here in the amendment. All this talk of Mr. Martinovic about where anyone meets... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51925	Mr. Markovic, your time is up. You've missed many, many things, Mr. Markovic, and replaced them. First, when you got the words based on the replica, you talked about the replica, and then you moved on to the amendment. Then you said Mr. Markovic shouldn't speak. Instead of telling Mr. Martinovic, you told Mr. Markovic. You mentioned yourself that he should not talk about what Mr. Martinovic was saying, and Mr. Martinovic was just talking about leadership. Then you also resented me for laughing at me, not saying a word, but with a smile you followed the news that came to me, that the SNS in Nova Mileshev won 15-2 and you resented me for looking forward to it. So, Mr. Markovic, I don't understand what else I have to do to get you to talk about the amendment and use today's debate in the interests of Serbian citizens. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: "Who did she beat?" ) Since Mr Djurisic asks me, the SNS won the election for the local community in Novi Milosevic, the municipality of Novi Becej, 15 to 2. And in those two, your party isn't, Mr. Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51926	Mr. Chairman, I point out the violation of article 107, which in its first position speaks of respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, or of the Members of Parliament. I want to tell you that your enjoyment of insulting the MPs really exceeds all tastes. You have no right to speak to MPs in such a way and to judge whether I missed something or I guessed something, whether I don't understand something or understand something. Your trial in that place is turning into a farce. I ask you once again to get serious and be aware that you are the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia's citizens, not to allow MPs to take office, chair.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51927	Markovic, I'm sorry, but I have to react to this. First, I am not the President of Parliament, but the Chairman, I ask you to respect that, Mr Markovic, as you must respect that I, according to the Rules of Procedure, am the chairman who must warn the MP not to speak on the subject. Also, I need to explain to you that you can't talk about the amendment after reporting to Mr. Martinovic in the middle of replication, and now I'm going to talk a little bit about the amendment and go back to the debate after the amendment, and you're not looking for a word based on your application for the amendment, and then you're still accusing yourself, since you said you allowed Mr. Markovic to point to Mr. Martinovic, you accuse yourself of using the Rules of Procedure. We need to move on to the amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51928	Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment together. Here you go, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51929	Dear Chairman, I sincerely hope that in the coming period we will have a little better communication. I suggest we take a break, since your fellow vice president of the assembly 15 minutes ago promised that the minister would be back very soon. The Minister's gone. I suggest we take a break because what we're proposing doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51930	Thanks for the suggestion, but if you want to talk about the amendment, she's out because she's not obliged to listen to the story between the MPs and the dialogue on some thousand things, so she used it to get out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51931	She doesn't have to listen...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51932	Do you want to talk about an amendment, a respected colleague, or don't you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51933	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51934	If you don't want to, let the other MPs go...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51935	But I want the minister to hear what I'm saying because it's very important that I tell her why I suggest that the percentage...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51936	There's her cabinet and we'll pass it on. You can really be so observant that you can get out, but let's be serious people, not gossiping about some now to talk about who does and doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51937	Just give me my time. This is gossip for you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51938	Oh, my God! Come on, I'll shut you down, because you're really exaggerating. It doesn't look anything like this. (Jovan Markovic: I agree that nothing looks like anything. That's right, and I agree with you. (Jovan Markovic: Can I have a word? ) Jovan Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51939	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. I'm glad the Minister went into the O.R., and yet I must express my regret that in this way you continue the discussion. This isn't gossip, this is an important topic, this is about 500,000...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51940	Ambassador, be nice and talk about the amendment once. Really, neither is it interesting, nor is it fun, nor brings political points, talking around.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51941	That's right. So this is about a large number of people who are covered by this bad bill. In Article 19, an increase in wages is planned for every hour of work at night by 26% of the working hour of the employee's basic salary. So our proposal is to increase this amount to at least 30%, because first of all this work applies to those people who have to be on duty, to further implement some process of work, production, etc. And it's inadmissible that, from a small base, after the pay cut that's been in the last four years, primarily in health care, in education and in some other activities, you're now only 26% higher for those people who will be on duty at night. So our suggestion is that this goes with an increase of 30%, given that the base from which they go is very low.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51942	On behalf of the member and member of the 20th Amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. They're not here. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 20th amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51943	This is another one of, as you say, the populist amendments where we suggest that an increase in wages for every hour of work on a holiday that is not a working day increase from 110%, as you suggested, to 120% of the hours of the basic salary of the employee. The explanation is also similar to that of night labor. We believe that the inadmissible reduction in wages and pensions was in the previous four years, that the basis of which is now being discussed about this 110% increase is really low, that people who do these jobs are related to very responsible functions, very responsible professions, very professional occupations, and that at least this increase of 10% is compared to the proposed something that would be correct to these people. You weren't present earlier when we asked to suggest an increase and say an increase. You mentioned it was inadmissible to raise taxes or taxes. I agree with that. I think that very irresponsible SNS policy and in the previous four years, Serbian citizens have been placed in a position that they cannot pay taxes, that the prices of public enterprises and institutions services should no longer be increased, because people today take loans to repay certain debts and claims of public enterprises, that you have brought Serbian citizens through the collection system into a very difficult position. I'm sorry that Mr. Martinovic listens very carefully, but he can't hear from his surroundings...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51944	MP, about the amendment or not? I'm in charge of the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51945	But our proposal is that, just by further hiring people you've placed in very prominent positions and places that didn't deserve it, at least by adding their engagement and work, you try to make some extra value, to create some additional services, not to go through taxes to increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51946	Thank you. By amendment? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51947	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to the previous speaker. I understand everything. The only thing I don't understand is why we didn't get answers to the questions – why tonight in the building owned by the AP Vojvodina, not DS, a party meeting between Bojan Pajtic, Cedomir Jovanovic and Boris Tadic, with the blessing of the new DS business director, I forgot his name, now we'll find out the name, Beslini, and Dusan Elezovic. Now, at that meeting, respected presidents are present and Mr Cedomir Jovanovic is also a brotherly and friendly hug with Milorad Ulemek Legija, who was named State enemy number one in 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51948	Ambassador, please. You've come forward for the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51949	Here is Cedomir Jovanovic, who is an alternative to Aleksandra Vukic and SNS and a political ally of Mr Jovan Markovic. There were some apartments here...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51950	MP, on the day of a holiday that is not a working day, there was said to be an increased value of 120%.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51951	Here were the words, Mrs Gojkovic, about some apartments of one ar, one and a half ar etc, about how someone was disgusting at Vojislav Seselj, who was Deputy Prime Minister, and here, behold, miracles, photographs of Vojislav Seselj with his political ally, then the president of the DS. Well, then, the leaders of the then DOS, the officials, the executives, the then president of the DS escort...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51952	Ambassador, please, you've turned off the microphone. Ambassador, you accidentally turned off the microphone. That's what I want to point you at. It wasn't me. I can't hold a session. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51953	So here were the words on all these topics, and since they say the picture speaks more than a word, here's the alternative to SNS and Alexander Vukic. (The People's MP shows photos. So, the people who are here in the photo with the people who later claimed to be enemies of the state are number one. This is Red Beret. This is Arkan. In this picture are Zivkovic and Arkan in friendly handling. Here are Seselj and then president of the DS, and in this photograph, Mr. Jovana Markovic, this new leader, the new DOS leader, Cedomir Jovanovic, who is thus brotherly and friendlyly hugged by Milorad Ulemek, called the Legion. Now, you explain to us how you think that with people like this you can fix Serbia and how you think that people like this can be an alternative to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, all tonight when I repeat myself again in a building owned by the AP Vojvodina is holding a meeting on the formation of a new DOS. The only thing I don't know is if you've agreed that if you win the election, the prime minister will remain Zoran Zivkovic, this great Arkan's friend, or in the meantime you've found a new candidate for prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51954	Do you want the replica or do you want the amendment? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51955	Of course, respected chairman to ask for a replica, several times Mr. Martinovic mentioned my name and asked me a few questions, and the essential question he asked - which is the alternative. It's not hard, Madam Chairman, to be an alternative to that regime and that policy that has reduced the salary of 40 grand to people who are dealing with health care. It's no problem being an alternative to a policy that cut the professor's salary to 30,000. It is no problem to be an alternative to a policy that has in every house, in every family in the previous four years, put its hand in the pocket, reduced revenues, reduced opportunities and chances for any normal functioning of every family. The fact that people are gathering together against this policy is your problem. Just because it's your problem, that means that hope is for the citizens of Serbia. Our proposal is that there is an alternative and that we will restore dignity and educational workers, and doctors, and pharmacists, that people will have a salary very soon at the level at which it was before these reductions. What I was really hoping for, Madam Chairman, is that you have a little more authority than your colleague Becic, who allowed a few minutes ago to talk about everything for six minutes, except the amendment. You cut it somewhere a little earlier, but what worries, every time we mention how damaged Serbian citizens are, how damaged every family in Serbia is, how reduced the chances of development are, you mention some things that are completely irrelevant, you wave some pictures that no one else sees, you wave some data that no one sees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51956	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51957	I'd just like to say once again that I haven't heard the answer to my question -- where there is an increase in overtime, or various increases, that are now going to be a few members. You said from an increase in pawnage. We've already increased our wages this time, although it wasn't expected to be possible. The IMF programme envisioned that salaries do not increase for three years. Still, it became possible precisely from an increase in pawnage. Now the question is, if you want the increases to be greater, does that mean that the coefficients should grow slower, or that the base should grow slower, or that means that taxes should be raised compared to the already high tax rates paid in Serbia. Secondly, I really think that when someone talks and promises, I don't know what kind of increase and raises wages and dignity to teachers and educators, that he's humiliating their dignity, because he thinks they're naive and they don't know that in the coming years the pay increases can be as much as we raise budget funds otherwise we'll be back on our way to bankruptcy, which we were on a year and a half ago. I think the citizens of Serbia are tired of demagogy. I think it's time to offer them alternatives that don't involve demagogy and buy votes based on actually unworthy treatment for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51958	Replica, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51959	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, as I said the other day when Zoran Zivkovic announced he would be Serbia's new prime minister, I said it was a great day for Serbian parliamentism and with Serbian political history because Serbian citizens will finally know what awaits them if the new DOS wins the elections. It's a good thing Mr. Jovan Markovic today told DS and this new DOS who the alternative was to Alexander Vukic. So, to repeat and to recapture, dignity to educators, dignity to teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, will return Bojan Pajtic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Amir Bislini, Dusan Elezovic, Boris Tadic. These are new people full of knowledge, full of energy, who know how to deal with economic and social problems and, of course, headed by the new prime minister of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Zivkovic, a good friend of the Legion, Arkana, Red Berets and so on. And, well, we from the SNS tell Serbian citizens we are going to the elections with Aleksandra Vukic as leader and we offer you the politics of Aleksandr Vukic, and you, Mr. Jovana Markovic, we are offering Bojan Pajtic's politics, Cedomir Jovanovic, Bislini, Elezovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Boris Tadic. It's no problem. So we offer Vukic, you offer everyone else, Pajtic, Bislini, Boris Tadic, Zoran Zivkovic. If this is an alternative for Serbia, then we will be back in 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008. In 2010, robbery privatisations, leaving people without jobs, no pay, no dignity in a state that has no prosperity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51960	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51961	Replica. In 2012, Serbian citizens believed that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic were not Ministers of Slobodan Milosevic, were not in the government when inflation was 80, 90%, when Serbia was under sanctions, when citizens lived with average salaries of 20, 30 marks, when they paid taxes to get out of Serbia. They believed it was some other people and that they could implement some other policy. And, four years, we've seen the results of that policy. The policy has led to further poverty among Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens today have, ten, fifteen, twenty percent less wages and pensions than they had four years ago. Serbian citizens today live in a country visited by foreign investors. Serbian citizens today live in a country where censorship does not respect basic democratic rights. Serbian citizens today live in a country where the crime rate is growing, in which criminals are released in courts and have full support for the political summit. And it's all SNS and Alexander Vukic's policy. I call on all those who want to vote in favour of such a policy to continue Serbia's decline to vote freely for Alexander Vukic and ministers from his government, including those who propose this law, which in each member hides less rights and less salaries from public sector employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51962	Veroljub Arsic, on what basis? (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: The replica of whatever you want, also mentioned the party, the party's president, and I'm authorized. ) (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Replica, I was mentioned three times. Just a moment, I just have a cacophony on one side and on the other, just a moment, say it. Here you go. How am I supposed to run a session if everyone yells at me to have the right to a replica? Well, you're not authorized, you can't when you mention DS, that you're considered because you're a member, yes, but you have to in the persuasive sense. Article 104. Paragraph 3. Please read as Veroljub Arsic speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS did not write the historic reconciliation between Slobodan Milosevic and Boris Tadic's policies, but it was you who wrote it. We don't mind you accusing us of some of the things you've been doing. Here, fellow MPs are now talking about public sector employees that they've been robbed. Well, it wasn't us, it was you. And every time you promise, how will you repay something? Say -- you want to sell Telecom, you want to sell Elektroprivreda Srbija, say -- more, so you can only return it. Say, the new governor is going to print money on Topcider to get you back in 1993 or we're going to owe the state until we sell you all. You forgot about the real sector. That's what I keep reminding you. The real sector is the one that supports all of us here and the public sector, and the municipalities, everything, and education, and health care. The real sector is full of budgets. Well, you've abolished 400,000 jobs, so you have recordrs at an average of 100,000 jobs per year. Gross products are ruined, with 6.5 billion euros coming out of your country only in 2009. You mean - that's not true. Six-and-a-half billion euros were taken right under your nose and I'm sorry, I have the right to doubt that part of that 6.5 billion in 2009 ended up in your pockets with someone who ran the state back then, which was DS. Well, once you've cleared up with yourself what you're doing. If you want to renegotiate, it can't, tell the citizens nice, let them know what's waiting for them. If you want to sell property again, tell people they know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51964	Replica, time. Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51965	On behalf of the members and members of the 21st Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 21st amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51966	Dear Minister, I really ask you to respect our arguments, so the Minister is not here again, the Honorable Chairman, how do I proceed now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51967	The minister will be here any minute, and I've continued to work, and the minister will be informed and will join us, and there are cabinet members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51968	I really wanted to ask, however, that at a time when we are fully aware of the reduction of salaries to doctors, teachers, how much pay is reduced to professional people, that we must have understanding of them and that this Article 21st position in this article, where for every hour of overtime, the right to increase the salary of the working hour of the basic salary of the employee, is increased by 26%. I really ask you, the people whose salary has been reduced over the past four years have suffered heavy casualties, but if we have a situation that the governor of the National Bank of Jorganka Tabakovic is calling for a tender for the purchase of leather bras, then we can conclude that the situation is not so difficult. And if now, in this time, she can buy bras for employees and insult the intelligence of Serbian citizens, then...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51969	Mr. Markovic, can you talk about the subject? If you don't know which member we're discussing, I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51970	... I guess we can also call this my proposal that it's a normal battle proposal for people to get increases for overtime. You've assigned 26% to them for overtime, and you say it has to be saved, and on the other hand, you have a waste of money at every turn. So this is an example that the state isn't in such a bad situation and don't talk about the increase anymore, or that you've increased profits... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51971	Time. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: You again) Well, I have to turn you off for two minutes, Mr. Markovic. Mr. Markovic, I didn't interrupt, I just said what the MPs asked me to do, and you kept talking, so you didn't break up, you were focused. I would ask you to concentrate in advance on the members we are discussing. I understand that you have been left alone, that you have not prepared this law to discuss it and that you now have this problem and that you must keep repeating two sentences with each member we discuss. On behalf of the member and member of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, together. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 22nd amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: How is Boris Tadic, what are you talking about, the chairman? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51972	You said Boris Tadic, so you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51973	I'm sorry, you're right, I'm sorry. I wanted to say the DS Parliamentary Group, although it is no longer known what it is in these days, so I apologize to the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51974	Give me back my time. Are you giving me my time or what?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51975	I'll count you in 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51976	Article 22 speaks of an increase in salary for preparedness. In the first position, it is said that the increase in wages per hour is, according to the proposal, 10% of the working hour of the basic salary of the employee, and we have suggested that it be 20%. The explanation is similar, we really think that steps are necessary to make all people who do very responsible jobs, in this case they are related to various situations where people have to be alert and that the coefficient increases to 20%, given that the reduced salary of many people in the previous four years, that pensions have been reduced, that the basis for which they go is inaccessible and that the increase, i.e. this 10% is not satisfactory. A little while ago, Mr. Chairman, you interrupted me, but I have to continue that part, and I really think that after saving where the citizens of Serbia have submitted great sacrifices, where every family in Serbia has suffered great sacrifices, where this government has allowed it to right on the citizens' savings...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51977	Article 22 speaks, the increased salary for each hour stands at 10% of the working hour of the basic salary of the employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51978	... Supposedly to make some major reforms, it's necessary that at a time when...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51979	The preparedness plan shall be carried out by the employer, in accordance with the needs of the working organisation of the employee who has been invited to perform the work, the time of effective work by invitation, shall be considered as overtime. And you asked for Article 22 of Article 1 to be changed and it reads: “The increased salary for each watch is 20% of the working hour of the basic salary of the employee. Just tell me how your exposure has to do with what you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51980	That's right. Here's what I'm saying is that these 10% hikes, these people are doing very responsible jobs, that the base after the pay cuts in the last four years is very low and that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51981	Time's up, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51982	So you took 30 seconds from me again...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51983	So 40 seconds more talking, because of the time I've taken from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51984	But you asked me just... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51985	On behalf of the member and member of the 23rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, together. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51986	Chairman, I don't think it's right that we are discussing the draft law of this law without the presence of the minister, the minister in this case, regardless of your invitation to discuss it, because it will be conveyed by members of the cabinets who are the halls of our discussion. This is about our attempt to convince the legislator to accept our amendments, and if the legislator isn't there, he can't do it, and if we move on to the next amendment, we can't go back and that possibility doesn't exist. We are here in this session, you know it ourselves, sometimes, respecting the reasons why some ministers could not be in the room during the debate, debated first and foremost in principle and without the presence of the minister, but the debate in details without the presence of the minister and the promoter is absolutely pointless because I don't want to talk here in vain if the promoter isn't here and can't plead for reasons to accept the amendment. But let me tell you what this is about in Article 23. It is about increasing the salary for past work and there has been a lot of controversy in public when this law was in the stage of the draft. The legislative solution proposed by the proposer is that it refers to past work on every full year of work in the employment relationship with the employer in the public sector at 4,04% of its basic salary. We felt that this part of the employer in the public sector should be deleted. For what? Because I'm going back to the definition of Article 1 of this Act. What's a public sector? According to this definition, public enterprises will no longer belong to the public sector, of course the Bank of Serbia and the Public Media Service, and in this case, a number of people who have so far not been reduced by wages, because they have worked in a public company, and now they may be working somewhere in the state, calculated by the law that this Assembly has also passed, when it has defined the past work differently, most Serbian citizens have reduced salaries, as the past work only included the work of the last employer, will now again be just a reduction of salaries to a certain number of people. This is proof of what kind of politics this government has and what the intention of this law is. The intention is less rights and less wages, not a more efficient and better state administration, and now, of course, I can't hear from the promoter whether I might be wrong, whether this definition in Article 23. The law that the promoter has given will not lead to a reduction in salary, because we think it will. If someone was working in a public company, until now he was considered to have worked for the state, and now working in a state body, he was counted as working for the state all along, he had the right to increase in past work. Now if this is adopted it will not have and it is another additional blow to Serbia's citizens' standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51987	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. On behalf of the members and members of the 24th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, submitted to the 24th amendment. The word is Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51988	I must have signed off on Article 23. I don't know why you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51989	But you can't, Mr. Markovic, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51990	I'm the signator of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51991	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. You are neither Dejan Nikolic, nor Jovana Jovanovic, nor Aida Ćorovic. So I can't understand how you think you're discussing this amendment when you're not even a proposing, and you don't have time for a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51992	Did I submit that amendment? That's the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51993	Obviously you're not, if you're not the amendment promoter. You can only apply the amendment to Article 24. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51994	As regards amendments to Article 24, it concerns mutual relations of the basis for increasing wages and in the best way this discussion illustrates your approach to this topic and this issue. I really think there's been so many attempts to cut people's wages and for the past four years we've witnessed that, on various grounds, the state used all the possibilities, all the chances of the wages being reduced. Our concept suggests that this increase, i.e. this base of 0.4, is increased to 0.5% each year, and we think it is necessary to change this concept of taking from public sector employees, that people must be stimulated for production, for work, for their engagement in each job. That's why we suggested these changes. However, the course of this debate itself is such that you simply cannot come to terms. We're in a position to be interrupted, Mr. Chairman. That's what I expect you to tell me now that it's been two minutes, and we've been arguing for a minute whether or not I've submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51995	Let me tell you, Mr. Markovic, it's been two minutes. Here, for two minutes and 10 seconds I warned you it was two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51996	I see you're looking forward to it, and I'm very happy that you're happy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51997	Mr. Markovic, I really don't know. I apologize to all MPs, but I cannot, during the entire debate, direct Mr Markovic to respect the Rules of Procedure and nothing more. Then I won't have the need to react. And when I don't warn you, you mention yourself. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Do you want to follow this amendment, Mr. Djurish? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51998	Dear Minister, thank you for joining us. This Article 24 speaks of how it will increase, i.e. the right to increase the salary by combining the salary for work at night, working on the day of the holiday, and to be prepared, or overtime and preparedness, not working on the day of the holiday. This member also provides for a special, as well as almost all other members, provision for a special law to be regulated. Here, now I'm interested in a particular example, I'm wondering if in this law, let's say, he's going to find the responsibility of the manager if he doesn't organize work on how to end up, say, not working at night? Why would I ask that? Here, it's half past 12 now. So, about 10 o'clock, according to the Labour Act, we moved to work at night. As for us officials, MPs, this law, neither valid nor the one you're about to adopt, has any change, we have no right to any increase due to working nights. However, they have employees, employees who work here, who are here, although Sunday, long before this Assembly started, so they now have the right to increase, or according to this law, would have the right to increase 26% of the hour's value. Now I ask – will this new law that you foresee predict some responsibility? Because today we haven't been able to get an answer from the chairman why we started working at 5:00 p.m., why are we working here all night and will these people who work get an increase in their earnings because they work at night? I'll tell you right away -- they won't, they won't, they're entitled to 32 hours overtime, and the rest of them are taking their days off because they say there's no money in the budget. I'm curious, if you already want to introduce some order by this law, to introduce responsibility for someone who, as Vice President of Becic, schedules the Assembly at five in the afternoon, to work here all night, and thus costs Serbia's budget, and will you provide for that law some responsibility for officials who are not able to work or because they are boasting, will they be responsible for the money of Serbian citizens who have been spent for no reason? That's what I'm curious about, when we pass laws like this, because from a member of this law we see a reduction in the rights and salaries of employees, and we don't see any greater responsibility for functioners. That's all you're saying about some other laws. I now give you a concrete example, a concrete example of what hundreds of people are doing here, next to us here in the O.R., which according to this law should exercise some right, and that won't happen, with a reason that there's no money. This is not how one socially responsible government or responsible government behaves, in any way, government. And thank God there will be elections in less than two months, so the citizens will say goodbye to that government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u51999	Mr. Djurishic, since you've already referred the question... (Marco Djurisic, from the post: You want to answer me, you come down. I'll answer you. Mr. Djurisic, Prime Minister Mr. Vukic said in an exposé that MPs will do whatever time it takes and that is important for the citizens of Serbia. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: We work, but other employees work. ) We are only in the sixth hour, Mr Djurisic, and Serbian citizens expect us to work at least a day for 10 hours for their well-being and for their interests. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: They work 10 hours, but not 10 hours at night. ) So, who does not want to work in the interest of citizens, he does not have to sit in the hall, as most MPs of your parliamentary group do. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, but at night it is paid more. I can't help you there. The moment you get tired, you can do something else, and MPs will work here in the interest of Serbian citizens. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I see how they work. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. (Jovan Markovic, from the place, can I talk? ) Mr. Markovic, you have already spoken according to this amendment and have already used your time, so you must wait for the next amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is not true. ) Mr. Markovic, before Mr. Djurisic, you spoke according to this amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is not true. How is it not true, Mr. Markovic? You are the promoter of this amendment. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 24th amendment. I have read this amendment, you have asked for a word, you have spoken, after which Mr. Djurisic answered and you are now answering again and want to speak again after the same amendment, although you have no right, and yet you say that it is not true that you have spoken according to this amendment. I really don't understand, Mr. Markovic, what's going on with you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I did not speak. That's the fifth amendment. It's amazing, it's really amazing. Mr. Markovic, you spoke before Mr. Djurisic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I did not according to this amendment. ) Only if you were talking about something else, but I read this amendment, you were saying, Mr. Djurisic reported on this same amendment, Mr. Markovic, and spoke. I don't believe this is happening, Mr. Markovic. Please focus. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: I have five amendments... I'm not hiding anything, Mr. Markovic. I have to move on. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: May I approach? ) On behalf of the member and member 25... (Veroljub Arsic, from the city: Igor, you gave me your word. You want a word, Mr. Arsic? I understand by the deputy head of your parliamentary group that he said we were moving on, and I assumed... Veroljub Arsic, from the scene: Don't understand. He said-- go on after the amendment. Well, it's okay, if you want to talk according to the amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52000	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I can't help but wonder what my colleagues are talking about. Here, a colleague, who has counted on amendments, talks about some reductions, and the amendment to Article 24 regulates the increase. What is interesting are the questions that are being asked, so now I ask the government's representative – will the employees of the AP Vojvodina, who are now bringing coffee to Boris Tadic and Bojan Pajtic, be accounted for by night work or not? I see it seems very strangely dark to some of my fellow MPs, who forget where they are. Experiences with increased night work The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has, when the Democratic Party secretary then raised 1.5 dinars for night work in the Republic Election Commission. Now you see why they worry so much about public sector employees. They consider the public sector their prey and act that way. They don't care about the real sector, for those who fill Serbia's budget, they are not subject to any rules. Take as much as you can. Kidnap because it's been so used to years back, and that's the problem. You can tell by the member he's been trying to talk to all the time. All employees in Serbia have an increase of 0.4% per year and a colleague wants 0.5%. He doesn't know we'd be breaking the Constitution then. He doesn't know that. It doesn't matter what we break the Constitution, the law, they're used to breaking everything alive just to be in power. I would never be proud of the results of some government, because as his colleague in Pozharevc did, to spend millions of euros and to keep Pozharec out of water, so some here spent millions of euros in Užica and Užice had no water. Alexander Vukitch had to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52001	At the name of the member and member of the 25th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 25th amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52002	Dear Minister, I felt that the opportunity had been missed for several members, we talked about it a little bit, was specified by a number of these organisations, agencies, parties' associations, other organisations that were founded in the previous four years, without even knowing how they were founded. It's only known that they're meant to hire a large number of SNS activists and that their only task is to be in the upcoming campaign... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52003	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: What are you interrupting me for? Because I want to run a session. Paragraph 1 of Article 25 is amended as follows: employees working on government posts under the Act of Article 10 of this Act shall be designated as executive posts, etc. They shall not have the right to increase the salary referred to in Article 18(1), so if you can do something about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52004	Give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52005	No, I won't give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52006	You interrupted me, and you don't know I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52007	Do you want to talk about the amendment or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52008	Yeah, I was talking. The component of my amendment is located in the central part of this proposal, where I say, unlike the proposed amendment, that more "for organisations" be placed "with agency, associations, associations and parties or other organisations". That's what I was just talking about. I was just saying that in the previous four years, as the ruling coalition, the ruling regime, you have set up a series of agencies, a series of associations, a series of associations and that money is paid to the parties in the budget. You didn't see that coming in this bill. My desire to point out in several members of this law these failures and that it is unacceptable for those 15 billion dinars, which I have spoken of in some members, who are in the budget to target people's employment on occasional and temporary jobs, and to refer precisely to these agencies, to those workers who are employed or will be employed for it. The result of this employment is precisely related to Article 7 and Article 8 which says that you will have big problems in profit payments, i.e. public sector employees, in many local administrations will be in a position to reduce incomes, i.e. earnings. What is the difference between this proposal and your amendment, or the proposal for a member, is the final part where you say that officials have no right to increase the salary of this member. We feel that it is necessary to make a correction and that it is perfectly normal for someone who is in a leading position, by running his place of work, by his pawning, to leave some results with his expertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52009	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52010	Was it okay? Is it an amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52011	It was great, and I gave you 12 seconds more. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52012	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I'm calling for her not to be accepted. For what reason? For the reasons clearly stated in the reasoning, in the opinion we received from the Government, which will say, because this proposal has nothing to do with the act to which this member of the law applies, not to the public sector, nor to this law at all. If six hours, maybe more than six hours, after this question has been discussed once by the proposer of this amendment and I, and at that time he admits that it has nothing to do with anything here, we have to discuss it again and I can add one more time – congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52013	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll take the amendment to Article 25. Two proposals come from the same party. One group of disintegrated parties suggests that Article 25 be deleted, and the other part requires that attitude 1 be changed. Now I don't know who they're for. If we adopt their first solution and delete Article 25, how are we going to change attitude one? It's not clear to me at all. I'd like those in Moshe Piyada's villa to agree on what they want, should we delete Article 25 or change it, as the other part wants? As far as these socially responsible governments are concerned, I'm afraid it was the government of universal destruction, not the Socially Responsible Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52015	On behalf of Glava III, the name of the member and member of the 26th amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52016	As for Article 26, the 1st point says that employees... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Did Pajtic put you on the list? ) Please, if you can, Madam Chairman, draw attention to Martinovic not to throw it away. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: The man asked you friendlyly if they put you on the list. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52017	Excuse me, what did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52018	Can't you hear the pitch?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52019	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52020	You hear me when I throw and you don't hear them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52021	So you're not interested in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52022	I'm just looking for conditions so I can speak normally. The employee has the right to pay an average salary in the previous 12 months. That's the proposal you delivered. Our proposal is to move that deadline to 24 months and I think we've all agreed here tonight, even I see the approval of fellow Members of the ruling regime that it's unacceptable that the salaries of people in education are down by 30,000, to doctors 40,000, pharmacists 30,000, and for that reason it would be good, Madam Chairman and Madam Minister, to raise this base to 24 months, because that would give people a chance to get these increases here with a slightly larger base. I really ask you, since the request of most government deputies here is directed to end this debate, to speed up, to be aware that this is a very important law, that 500,000 people expect good solutions and that it is totally inadmissible to conduct the debate in this way and that you do not allow us to say our position, through a throw-off, a break-up, and everything else you use, and 500,000 people are directed to expect solutions tonight and some improvements to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52023	Thank you. That's why MPs are supposed to be here at the meeting, and you're the only MP, so please don't criticize the people who are here and disagree with your amendments. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: "Is it okay if they get me?" No, sit down. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: "Is it okay if they get me?" ) They simply disagree with your amendments. Mrs Gordana Comic threw out complete parliamentary clubs that did not agree with the ruling majority, therefore, allow me now, MPs can detest at least verbally, or admire everyone now, it is not democracy. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52024	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again the same problem of amendment 91, one part of the disintegrated, as my fellow farmer puts it, a decommissioned society or a party alliance, asked for Article 26 to be deleted, and then another part of the same party asks for attitude 1 to be changed. Now I don't know how we're going to do it if we delete Article 26. How are we going to change attitude 1. To me, it seems impossible, I would like my colleague to turn over those bourgeois giants, ask them what they are, first or second solution and, by the way, to warn them not to trample Zivkovic's vineyard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52025	Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZ-ZS, submitted together the 26th amendment. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52026	Madam President, Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 26, which we have provided for that attitude to be changed and said – during the absence from work on the day of the holidays, which is an unsatisfactory day, annual vacation, paid leave, military exercises and responses to the call of the state authority, employees have the right to pay the salary which is charged and paid at the same amount as if they worked. The reason why we have submitted such an amendment is that it is much more realistic for him to receive the pay that he has at that time and at the moment at which the company, the company, or organisation from which he originates, what is the property power. It's possible that this salary can be less and more, but it's certainly more realistic than the average in 12 months. What we think and I think we're right, I don't see why the Minister wouldn't accept. What should also be said, we have heard earlier from the minister that he will not answer any questions, questions, proposals, amendments, given that we are MPs who have an obligation to ask questions on behalf of the citizens and participate in the debate regardless of the time and moment we are in, we believe that as a minister who has been elected, too, from us, i.e. from us MPs, those who have chosen you, you have an obligation to give answers and explanations to our proposals that are in the interest of citizens, so, if that is not how you think it suits you, we believe that you should say so, but that by a non-substantiating relationship to the efforts of people who do not have to be educated, but they can be more prepared and the representatives of the people you must have a different relationship. I beg you to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52027	Thanks, time. The Minister called, but you won't let her say anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52028	I think whoever is watching this session sees very well that I answer whenever there is a fundamental question that concerns some effort to understand or improve this law. There is such a solution as to have worked at this time in the Law on the salaries of civil servants, but there are much less deviations from the month to month in wages from month to month, for example, on the basis of work night or duty and so forth. Since this law regulates salaries for the entire state sector there will also be public services where, for example, health care services exist from week to week, from month to month, from situation to situation, very large deviations in real income, given all possible increases related to what I said on duty or working at night and so on, then it would be very difficult for them to determine, and what that means is how much that person would have earned if he had worked. It is far simpler then to take a simple historical experience that is one measure, not true, but is approximately what is expected to be done by someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52029	Thank you, Minister. At the name of the member and member of the 27th amendment in the same text, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52030	Dear Minister, another one of these, as you say, of the populist amendments, where I have suggested that employees have the right to pay during their absence from work, due to temporary prevention for work, up to 60 days, unlike those of you who have suggested that it be 30 days. For me, it's a question of trying to fight for some people who might have a chance to get better conditions and benefits in some of their jobs. I believe that given how many people are threatened by the devastating savings policy that is being promoted in a way that gets citizens and their families in their pockets and that they have reduced incomes of 20, 30 or 40 thousand each month and that people are obliged to sort of manage and that by deprive them of these rights, they are in some way reducing that opportunity and the chance to create for their families. In this case, I thought it was totally fine, that if it's justifiable to prevent it from being for 60 days, and I would ask you and your associates once more to consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52031	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS submitted the 27th amendment together. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52032	Thank you. President-in-Office, dear minister, we have proposed to change point 1 in Article 27, which says that during the absence of work due to disease prevention or out of work injury, the employee pays 100% of the basic salary instead of 65% of the average salary as proposed by the bill. Your argument to refuse amendments to this article is that this solution has been agreed through a social dialogue with representative trade unions and members of the Social Economic Council of the Republic of Serbia. However, this solution also hides a new reduction, i.e. another reduction and a blow to employees affected by this law, over half a million of them as we have repeatedly said in these two days. In fact, so far this law has been established to at least 65%, so in some cases collective bargaining, the percentage has increased. With this solution, you are now not allowing it, and as a government that is not willing to respect through social dialogue the role of unions that should worry about workers' rights, you rule out any possibility for some collective agreements, negotiations to get better workers' rights, just because you are erasing the word "minimum". We think that people who are prevented from coming to work because of illness are unlikely to be able to justify their downsizing for that time, except for the reasons of the budget and the need to save, but the real needs of people who are sick are likely to need more money in those days than when they are working, because they need to be treated, to provide medicines that are more expensive and more expensive, to probably inability to get to a doctor in the state service because they are waiting, because they may be crowded, maybe go to a private doctor and pay a review there, and all this requires new costs All this requires new costs, and at that time it reduces his salary. We feel that this is deeply unfair and that our solution is much fairer since we live in the 21st century and that some freedoms and rights of workers have long fought some generations ago, but it seems that a generation has come to bring us back and turn us all into slaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52033	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52034	I think this discussion is another one in a number of populists, as already recognised by the MPs themselves who propose these members. But I think the good news is that I believe that citizens recognize when we're actually just appealing to some promises that we all know are simply unrealistic and I think we're reducing citizens' dignity when we're simply lying to them. There's no money for all the wishes and everything that any of us would like to get, and especially 500,000 people from the budget that we're still treating right now. However, it is very important to mention here that the Social Economic Council has accepted such a provision precisely because we believe that the period ahead of us is the period in which we need to regulate the state and that it is for collective bargaining, that collective bargaining is a really big job, and that it is a job to edit earnings and reward work towards impact which will adopt specific laws for each of the parts of the state sector to be established where they are not, and there are none, as I mentioned at the beginning, in health, nor in education, nor in culture. It is not a small job to determine exactly how the impact will be evaluated, how exactly work will differ from work, and it is time that what we have to increase profits, not spend linearly and not on the unemployed, but to find a way to raise the productivity of our country by rewarding more people who work better, more committed, more quality. That solution will have to be dealt with by unions, should be dealt with by unions, and will require great engagement, and it is pointless to waste energy and time on agreed members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52035	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52036	I'll be brief. So this is where a factory worker is less valuable than an office worker. I don't mind staffing the administration. The administrative procedure is a complex and difficult job. I know that, but it is precisely the submissions of such amendments that deprive, or underestimate, the real sector employees, of whom also the fellow MP who has submitted the amendment receives the salary. From there we receive salaries, and as much as you in the real sector earns us will be for the public sector. It does not say our people without need - spread out how many blankets you have. Now there's a story here about some workers' rights and employees in the authorities of the state administration, and no one can tell who's really filling our budget and whether the solutions you're proposing are going to harm just those who are filling the budget. And if you know that the amendments you're proposing can be accepted by a majority decision, but they can't be feasible in relation to our financial situation and the public debt you've left us. So when someone says - I want an increase for management employees, just let them think of 170 billion dinars for interest that the Republic of Serbia, or all of its citizens, will pay for the loans you have raised. That's all you explain - how are we going to meet your amendments to 170 billion of your loans, your duties?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52037	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Just in case you don't skip me. On what basis? You're not an amendment promoter, you don't have time from the MP's group. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Just in case you don't skip me. Just in case you'd like to come in? It's okay. On behalf of the members and members of the 28th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, together. It's not worth it just in case. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 28th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52038	Mr. Chairman, Article 28 speaks of the exercise of the right of an employee who is unsettled in accordance with the law, who has the right to compensation of 65% of the basic salary for the month, and we have suggested that it be 100%, given the various experiences that people have survived in the previous period when they were very unjustly under the law's cover getting fired, we were left without a job, when they were reduced profits, when they were moved to other jobs and we felt that this was the reason why people should be protected. The experiences we've had in the past four years tell us exactly that this is one controversial member and that people through this can get a certain amount of compensation they deserve. As for the statement made a few minutes ago by Ms. Minister that this view of the opposition's MPs reduces the dignity of the people in whose name we speak, I would like to say that it is our attempt and our struggle to fight for dignity here in the parliament of those people who have been disproved and to point out that everything bad that happened in the previous period and to point out that this law is just as devastating and that the consequences of this law will be an additional reduction in profits in the next period and that people covered by this law will only see all the negative consequences and that, in addition to all the reductions they have had in the previous four years, there will be additional reductions. Your devastating approach to just dragging its hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens allegedly saves and makes major reforms and repays debts is also devastating. Instead of production, instead of development, you chose a model that is a disaster for the family and for the people of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52039	Don't be angry, Mr. Martinovic. With Mr. Markovic, the topic is mostly dilemma. Here you go. National MP Marijan Rističević. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: What did you say? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, will you calm this one down? Mr. Markovic, may I continue or expect a close-up attack?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52041	Here you go. Just because Mr. Markovic's on his way to you doesn't mean anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52042	It's not clear enough to me, nor are they trying to explain these kind of acrobatics. Article 28. One group requests that a member be deleted by Balsham of Maldives. The group leading Balsha of Maldives under the influence of that hot Maldives sun requires that this member be deleted. The other group is asking for a change. How do we change the members that have been deleted before? I would like that legal acrobatic to explain to us those who were suddenly concerned about the salaries of public administration employees, in the services, and were supposed to be concerned when they were cleaning jobs, when the country was borrowing, so that this year's debt and interest obligations, which they naturally owed, were 707 billion dinars, which is three times more, over, than they are all paying out of the staff's budget. So I don't like it when people who don't know how to make money come to mind, just how to spend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52043	Thank you. There's no right Mr. Markovic again. Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted together by the MPs, Marco... (Jovan Markovic: Can I ask you something? What's the matter? Mr. Markovic, you're in the system. (Jovan Markovic, from the site: I am not in the system. It is. Here, it says Master Jovan Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I am not in the system at all. ) I am warned by the Deputy Secretary that you want a word and I am telling the Deputy Secretary that you have no right because you have already spoken according to this amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Don't deceive people, I'm not in the system at all. ) Here, I will turn to the public of Serbia, to show that you are in the system. Don't do that, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I didn't press anything, I'm not in the system. If you're so nervous, can you come here? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Come to me. Here, come if you like. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: What does that look like? Here, let me explain what this looks like. Is this where Master Jovan Markovic writes? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: All right. What's wrong now? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Come on now you're at my place.) Come here) But it can't be written here by Master Jovan Markovic if you didn't sign up. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Come to me there to see if I pressed the button. Is that correct? I have to read what it says here. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Well, come to me to see if there is a button pressed there. Mr. Markovic, you can't have your name here if you didn't press the button. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: So I didn't press the button.) I can't help you. On behalf of the member and member of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, they submitted... I'm sorry, Mr. Marinkovic, you can see I'm having a hard time dealing with Mr. Markovic. It's hard for anyone to help me with that. You want to follow this amendment? I read the amendment. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52044	To Article 28. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and the SS submitted an amendment in article 28: "unless a special law is specified otherwise" predicted to be deleted. So here we have on this article 28. We have three different amendments that have given possible solutions, which are more explicit for me too, especially this amendment that predicts that if we predict that 65% of the salary is for someone who is unscheduled, that it is so, and not to add -- if that's not otherwise solved. In your explanation, you wrote that such a case could occur if someone was partially unscheduled. So in public bodies, in the public sector, which this law needs to regulate, there is no such term -- partly unscheduled. So he's either deployed or he's unscheduled. At the moment he's unscheduled, he should get 65%. Our desire and goal is to help you that if something decadently defines it to be just like that, not to leave the possibility that whoever wants to be able to solve it. You said it by some special law, and we don't know how, but if it provides the possibility of being able and so, then it leaves space and the possibility for the manager to apply it one way or another. I think it's better to define it specifically and make it 65% and know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52045	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52046	One, if something is determined in a special law, it does not allow the manager to determine something in one way or another. It's very important that we don't replace the thesis. It is true that the forest regulations that we have today, including arbitration or sublegal acts, are not arbitral, but are not law and can be less transparent, and there is arbitration of the executives, we are now replacing everything with a very small number of special laws that cannot be changed unless they are changed by the Assembly. Two, this is a good opportunity to explain why sometimes special laws are needed. You have an example of technological excesses in education. It's kind of a partial indisposition, because they're unallocated, but at any moment when the opportunity is given they can get a chance to earn again and be hired temporarily by replacing some teachers, or permanently getting a job again. It's one status we don't know, that I know, somewhere else in the state sector, and we don't see that we need to force that system to fit this one. It's just an example of the kind of speciality that needs to be recognized by special laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52047	Thank you. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52048	Dear Minister, you're wrong. There is a minimum class fund for teaching staff in primary, secondary and higher education institutions that determines their status and cannot be partially resolved. So they either have that fund of classes or they don't. If they don't have it, they don't have a job. You're the one who predicted that someone else could do it. I just wanted to point out to you the precision you have to have in this case so you don't get people who, say, if the class fund is minimum for high school and elementary school 18 hours, and he's 16, he gets 65% salary, which you predict.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52049	Thank you. On behalf of the member and member of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 29th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52050	Dear Minister, unlike many other members you have called by various names, I cannot agree with those terms you have used, this article refers to this letter of correction. Not to go into that analysis of how inappropriate the terms were and why you did not comment on those members, but I think you should consider that we have proposed this language change, instead of the term “coherent” that it is “coherent” and that this is far better in this formulation. It means: “Employee who, in accordance with the law, is away from work has the right to pay in accordance with the general rules on work. “ That’s it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52051	Thank you. On behalf of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov together submitted. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 30th amendment together. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr Blagoja Bradic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52052	Article 30 speaks of the fact that, exceptionally from the members of the 26th to 29th of this law, the right to the remuneration of professional members of the Serbian Army is determined in accordance with a special law. We have suggested adding at the end of the words: "by not being able to bring professional members of the Serbian Army into a more unfavourable position in which they would be subject to the provisions of this law". The promoter did not accept that, explaining that what this member himself is saying will be passed by a special law that will regulate the right to pay on salary and on these other things related to salary compensation during the absence of work due to illness, because of the indifference or compensation of the employee who is away from work. I am concerned about not accepting this amendment, because our wish was to prevent this special law, in the sea of these other special laws that will be passed, as the Proposer has suggested, which should supposedly break the jungle of rules that exist, so instead of one, we will now get another jungle, instead of this yellow democratic one we will get the advanced jungle, it will obviously be the only difference, because it is unlikely that someone will be able to manage these new laws more easily, to limit the rights of professional members of the Serbian Army from being less than they are guaranteed by the application of this law and the promoter rejects it. So, in the announcement, another blow is being made to the military members, who are now with these reduced dinars to 150 dinars, their revenue has been reduced, and it is obvious that the proposaler's intention to further reduce it by some new law. Because if it wasn't for that intention, he would have accepted this amendment. To him who can read, he would understand what was proposed, who could not be helped. What citizens need to know is that it is the government's intention to continue and that the policy they are running in the elections to keep pushing his hand into the citizens' pocket, to take everything he can find there, and that is why citizens should go to elections and not vote for Alexander Vukic and his subjects.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52053	On behalf of the members and members of the 31st Amendments in the same text, the MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and the MPs Vukkovic, Bozovic and Jerkov together submitted together. Thank you. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vena Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, submitted to the 31st amendment. Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52054	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, SDS-ZZS, have submitted an amendment to Article 31, which we foresee to add a new position on 2nd, which reads: "the remuneration fees set out in Item 1 cannot be determined by applying specific laws in the amount lower than the amount determined by the application of the provisions of this law. “ The amendment was rejected by an explanation of the call to another member to which he is reasoned and says: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason it is a reference norm which refers to all the laws governing the right to pay and other cases which are not laid down by this bill. Please, this is about a roof law that should define basic rules. If it is a roof law and basic rules, then it can be predicted that it cannot be less than what is provided for in this law. In this way as you have explained this amendment and how you have brought it without constraint, without this additional norm that we have provided for by the amendment, the practically passed law of any other law can reduce the salary. Then I don't see the purpose of a roof law that derogates it completely. Therefore, the fee referred to in Article 1 shall not be fixed in the amount below the amount provided for under the provisions of this law. You did not accept it and it is evident that there is still one coordinated preparation through all these members of the law that leaves room for you to be able to arrange it when it suits you and in what way you will, mostly by reducing wages. It's something you can certainly expect, because if you thought differently, you wouldn't give a clause that opens up the possibility that you would do it without any restrictions, relying on other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52055	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd Amendment in the same text, together were MPs Zivkovic, Pavicevic... Did you want the Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52056	I'd like to understand how you're interpreting something that we're going to do as we please if it's going to be determined by law. I guess this assembly is passing laws. You're constantly replacing the thesis, like something that's going to be determined by another law means that I'm going to sneak home and write it down and set it down, that's one. Two, here you have also replaced the thesis that is normal legal practice, here it refers to the laws that govern these issues in this article under specific legislation. It has nothing to do with our special laws, and I think it's really irresponsible for you to replace the thesis and confuse, in the extreme line of the same citizens you should represent. This is about the fact that a leave of absence with child care determines the laws that have to do with health care. There is a labour law on such a referring norm. It is truly irresponsible at midnight to replace the thesis in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52057	Thank you. Members of the 32nd Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and together by MPs Vukkovic, Bozovic and Jerkov. Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vena Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, submitted together to the 32nd amendment. He's got a word for it. Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52058	Article 32 refers to the right to compensate for the costs of transport to work and to leave work and in the second position that we have proposed to delete in the third position, what we find controversial, that is this formulation which says – to increase the amount of transportation fees in case of a change of place of employment after a working relationship comes with the consent of the employer. Considering, unless this change occurred from various circumstances. In view of the fact that in the past few years, thanks to the setting of very bad party personnel by the SNS, there has been a kind of rematch towards people and that largely the employees have been exposed to various procedures and processes that have not been done. That people were exposed to various pressures, various processes that conditioned their very poor position in the institutions and businesses in which they worked, we find it inadmissible that the employer also depends on the consent to exercise the right to come and go to work. This must be specified by the rules on transport and this cannot be the will of the individual or, in this case, the employer regardless of who it is. Mr. Chairman, I think it is really necessary for you to step in and give Mr. Martinovic a heads-up on this throw. And if we're nervous that we've been working this long, and if the concentration's down, I think it's your duty to warn Mr. Martinovic and tell him it's wrong to throw it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52059	Mr. Markovicu, I would very much like to do this, but unfortunately I can't do it for a reason because Mr. Martinović is indignant because you're not talking about the subject. So, when I violate the Rules of Procedure in the case of you, not to remind you, I cannot violate the Rules of Procedure to warn Mr Martinovic who throws it away. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52060	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't think we're still in the pre-election campaign, but how many populist stories in the past few hours have literally been since the beginning of the debate on amendments to this set of laws, I think we've come to some point now. I would like the amendment promoter to come out now and publicly say that he is an employer and that he has several hundred or a few dozen employees who pay compensation for travel expenses and that suddenly this employee who he will hire, and from Užica is where and the headquarters of the company, or from Chajetina, come on, it's kind of the nearest municipality of Užica, that suddenly this employee moved to Vranje, without any control. Is it fictitious that he lives with his aunt in Vranj, or is he really there? Would Mr. Amendment Proposer accept and say it's okay, I'm paying all the increased expenses and don't ask me anything as your employer? Would you treat yourself that way? There's a difference when it's his money, when it's private money, or when he's state. When it's state, then it can all be fulfilled with good wishes, to live in another country, perhaps. To pay travel costs, perhaps by plane, every day, as voted from Bodrum or Thessaloniki, or we don't know why everything was voted, now that it's coming to work, let's say from Bodrum. As for some voting here, one of your leaders, Mr. Jovanovic, brought a private plane from Mikonos. Are we such a rich society that we don't have to take care of money? Maybe you're rich individuals, so you'll accept something like that. But don't spread, don't get all over yourself with some populist stuff you wouldn't do in your house. Well, I guess Serbia is our house. Well, I guess the state is our house. Well, I guess we shouldn't distinguish between our private money and the private budget of the Republic of Serbia and the same household relationship with that money. Why don't you do what you wouldn't do in your company, in your house, why say something like that, so let the state do. Why should we allow an anomaly? Why don't we ask the employer or the state not to ask if we want to change the place of residence, why not have that place prove that it's changed or we can say anyone can do whatever they want, everyone can move anywhere, so we'll have a cop who's employed at the Uzica Police Department, 1 who suddenly moved to Saturday and travels every day from Saturday to Užica and you'll say, don't ask anyone, how can an employer ask himself, why all the employers ask why they've raised his costs. Well, we're in this condition, just because you didn't take care of anything, just because you let everything go, because, come on, someone who's in a higher position will steal more, but then we'll let those who steal less. No, we're not gonna let anyone do any anomaly. This proposed amendment is an introduction to chaos. The proposed amendment is an introduction in a state where everyone can do anything, and it's in the state only to pay for it, and on public finances it's just to cover it. But it is the money of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that travel expenses is for both police officers and teachers, and for professors, and for professional soldiers. You'll say, never mind. You're moving in the way that suits you. There won't be any control. He can't. And if we're much richer, we can't let something like that happen. Give an example of any country in the environment, in Europe, any country in the world that will allow such a thing. That's too much. I think you have my full support, Madam Vice President, because this amendment has been rejected, because the rejection of this amendment shows a domestic attitude towards public finances, towards the finances of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52061	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. You have no basis, but here you go. Indeed, your attempts to speak without foundation, to say, that they once bear fruit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52062	Thank you. I think what I'm about to say will be constructive and that I fully understood the arguments Mr. Babic was talking about. I appreciate to a large extent that it is an argument and of course I would never allow it, not only as a private person, but also as an employer to have such examples, where someone brings you a ID card and says – now I live here and here, we go with transport costs. But this is about a system solution. It is not likely that Mr. Babic heard when I said it is unacceptable for an individual, regardless of who the employer is concerned, to leave the right and obligation to be punished through abuses, because that is how it occurred to the employer. So these things are solved by the rules, among other things, the Transport Regulations, and as an argument, you can say, because you have a lot of experts who need to come out of Chačka, Užica, on some basis, where this will be a completely justified reason for paying for transportation from the other side. But you have an example that was in my head when I submitted this amendment, where the director of one institution, at the moment when an employee asks her to continue her work, to continue her work relationship, but that she has to move to a village next to the city, to make up for the cost of transport, and he says, so your salary is 22,000 and that transport now costs us 14 or 15,000, and doesn't get consent, that woman needs to work for five or six thousand a month, she runs out of work, and he uses that situation to bring that job to a party line colleague who keeps working. These are some things that must not be left to the employer's free judgment and consent, because I consider it to be a matter that is resolved by the Rules of Procedure or by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52063	Mr. Markovic, can I ask you a question now without you getting me wrong and getting mad? Do you know who is the authorized representative of your parliamentary group under this law? Who? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Aleksandra Jerkov. () Unfortunately, when one of the MPs in a negative context mentions your parliamentary group, you can only from your parliamentary group, i.e. just to contact Miss Jerkov or the president or vice president of the parliamentary group and to replicate. That's why I'm trying to tell you that you don't have the basis, and I understand and it's not right that they left you alone and that you're not the boss, or the deputy boss, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group under these laws, and I understand your attempt to protect your party and your MP group, and that's perfectly legitimate and fine, but you're forcing me to break the Rules of Procedure because I don't have the basis to give you my word. Thank you. Members of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52064	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, you were just so inspired to say that the laws were passed in the Assembly and that our discussions were inappropriate and that you would go somewhere and write some law, and in an explanation for not accepting our amendment, you would point us to the amendment, the argument under number 92, so now we have to go back and see what 92 is and see what you wrote there. You wrote there that something was arranged with the Social-Economics Council and that's the reason. So you're the ones who rule out parliament, because you're not discussing arguments with us, but the fact that someone else has made a deal. In that is the problem, your experience of Parliament and of you and of all members of the government from the prime minister to the next. You think you're God-given, and you're wondering about everything in this country and you decide everything. Parliament is the one, we are all here, we are 250 representatives of citizens and citizens are the ones who adopt some laws through us and we hear their voice through us. It can't be your argument – you agreed with the Social-Economic Council, but you have to tell us why you think our arguments are not good. Now let me go back to the amendment itself. He regulates a few things. First, the transport costs fee. It's a very interesting argument we've heard. I'll read you Article 39(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – freedom of movement and housing and the right to leave the Republic of Serbia can be limited by law, if necessary in order to conduct a criminal procedure, protect public order and peace, prevent the spread of infectious diseases or defend the Republic of Serbia. We've heard here arguments that you want this law to prohibit someone from changing their place of residence. Yes, you forbid him to do this, because he won't be able to achieve the right to compensation for transportation expenses. Secondly, you're only talking about the possibility of an increase he's negotiating with the employer. What if someone moves closer? Maybe he should get less? Do we want to encourage him to keep quiet about not coming to the employer and saying, "No, I moved, you should pay me less for that ride." Do you have such a relationship with the officers? You so define this member of the law, that you think that all the con men are corrupt and that all you have to do is control them and punish them. You only offer beatings, not normal dialogue and normal rights. What do you say next in this article of the law, in paragraphs 3 and 4. – that the cost of eating during work and the regress for the use of annual vacations, their height is adopted by the Government, with the opinion of the Social-Economic Council previously obtained, after the conditions of the Republic of Serbia's budget are obtained for such a type of cost. So if they don't, there's no right. There's no right. It's real or it doesn't exist. And you can't condition him with the terms of the budget, I guess these people work, employees in the public administration work to achieve the goal of some. Teachers to teach children. Health care professionals to cure the disease. We don't all work to make your budget, as you like to say, as a pharmacy, a chakum-pakum. Things are wrong in this country and this law. That's why we're against him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52065	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52066	Mr. Chairman, without a desire to challenge the replica, but I am very grateful to Mr. Markovic, because he accepted my argument and showed and accepted it and that it is correct. But I can't get past a few things that were said a little while ago. Here is the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and here are three other officials from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Four people from the government of the Republic of Serbia and four MPs from the former regime. And what disrespect are you talking about, then? What disrespect of parliament by the RS government are you talking about when you are the same and unorthodox and less than ministers and representatives of the RS government? And here, I'm grateful to a colleague who just got here. The government is now leading 5-4 in your presence. And you're talking about disrespect. Well, if anyone disrespects her, they don't respect those empty benches around you. Those empty benches, where are they now? In Mosha's villa? They're in Mosha's villa. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Give me something about the law. I'm talking about the law as much as you talked about the law. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: try something about the law. Where are the MPs now? In Mosha's villa, they're waiting in that line of new DOS to stop at that list instead of doing their job. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Two things about the law. And you can break the Rules of Procedure and you can throw all you want, justice is on this side, the truth is on this side, and the populism... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: And the thief is on that side? What did you say? What did you say? What did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52067	Mr. Djurishic, this is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52068	Come on, say it, stand up bravely and say what you just said. Say what you are, say it loud. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I answered. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52069	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52070	Say it loud. Shame on you. Marco Djurisic, from the scene, you're going to tell me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52071	Please, Mr. Granny. Mr. Giursich, this is inadmissible, what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52072	Those empty benches around you are talking about the disrespect of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52073	You spoke now before Mr. Babic, you didn't talk about the subject... (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I didn't talk about the subject? And then, the moment Mr. Babic started his presentation, you started to throw him... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Read the amendment and you will know. And now you're one sentence, one word, which I can't even repeat... Marko Djurisic, from the place: You can't. )......................................................................................................... You have offended Ambassador Babic and the entire National Assembly and this high house, but it is your manner of doing all day and the manner that has been repeated lately, that something you cannot show out of this room, you show up in the O.R. by insulting your colleagues. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Come down, and turn around.) At any time with you, Mr. Djurishic, at any time, Mr. Djurishic with you. It's a shame what you're doing. But it's my fault, Mr. Djurishic, when I pulled the warnings I gave and brought you back to this room. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Here I am crying.) Here you go, Mr. Markovic. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52074	Mr. Becic, I guess I still have my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52075	And you're not finished. I apologize, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52076	Thank you. Well, I think the National Assembly is an arena where opinions are presented and where the best solutions are made. Those street phrases - come down to me to show you; and so, I would leave for some other occasions and for those people to whom such things seem innate. Nervous about forming this new DOS or candidate for the new prime minister, Mr. Zivkovic, or such personnel as Amir Bislimi or similar to him, I can see that they're bringing a lot of anxiety into this little MPs of the former regime or the new DOS that's left tonight and tonight with us. We don't have that nervousness, we have no reason, because we're safe in what we do, we're safe in the right path and reform policy, and this amendment shows the difference in our policies, the difference between order and chaos, where, as an argument for accepting the amendments, we're talking about some kind of ban on changing the place of residence. And where does that say? Who said it was forbidden to anyone? Well, to anyone and the state administration employee to change their place of residence, but someone who is from Užica later moved to Vranje, if he may have moved really, of course, that the state has to take care and that with the job to be in Vranje, to cut costs, to reduce the burdens on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or we will open the door as the amendment promoter proposes. Do whatever you want and whatever you want. The state is a milk cow, you can do whatever you want. Those in Mosha's villa that sit and tonight, they'll steal the most, someone'll take less. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: you say someone steals? Every man's deserved it. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: So who's a bigger thief than you? I don't know why they're so nervous. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I think Pajtic is the biggest, then Zivkovic. There's a dead race going on. ) Here they have such massive support for Chad and Pajtic, Bislimi and like him, I don't know why they're nervous? ...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52077	Here I confess, Mr. Babic, that I cannot calm Mr. Djurisic, because this terror we experience all day from Mr. Djurisic, I really don't have a solution for that. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Night.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52078	I fully support the government's view that this amendment should be rejected, because this amendment is the introduction to total anarchy that anyone can do what they want and what they want about budget spending. Such a thing is inadmissible and what you would not do with your money, don't and with your budget, don't do about the cost of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52079	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Replica two minutes. He's mentioned by Mr. Babic. (Zoran Babic, from the site: But positive extreme.) ) No matter what is mentioned in the positive context, it is enough to mention his name and name, Mr. Babic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52080	I think we understand each other very well about this amendment, and I think it was correct by Mr Babic that he accepted my argument, because it was justified and has another dimension that was not talked about here, and it was like a cause or motive for me to submit this amendment. Since there's been a lot of insults being said here, so they're waving their hands at us, the few of us sitting here, we're very much in the mood, Mr. Chairman, as you can see tonight we're talking about this subject. It is very important for us that 500,000 people who listen to this debate actually see that there is no end to your attempt to impoverish them, that there is no end to your attempt to reduce wages for doctors, teachers, people who are employed in education. And our attempt to fight here for these people and to say how devastating it is that in a few days before calling elections in this way without having any critical attitude we talk, your critical attitude, we are talking about this subject, although you are aware that this law does not make any better solutions, that this law continues to reduce the possibilities and chances of people to develop, that this law continues to enter into family budgets and that it will lead to bankruptcy of many families in Serbia, you are blindly agreeing to talk about this law at one hour in the night, that you are talking about some issues that have nothing to do with the amendment and this bill and that it is an excuse for you, because you are aware that this law is not good, but you have to listen. That's your problem all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52081	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. If it were true what you're saying, then your MP group would be in full composition and defend its amendments with arguments. Mr. Djurishic, do you want to since you said you wanted to say what you said in the microphone? You don't want to. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52082	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. How come someone who's had a chance to settle this sector for 12 years and make public sector wages and who didn't have the courage to do something like that, who didn't have the knowledge to do something like that, knows this isn't good? He didn't know how to do it, but he knows this isn't good. How did someone who had the chance to get him and the World Bank and the IMF ask him to do something like that and didn't do better than both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the World Bank and the IMF, where we got credit for this law, but you're above all that? It's enough your criticism, it's enough to say it's so populist to say things like that. With what evidence, what receipts? Where do you justify what you're saying? In what, that you tried to arrange the area of pay in the public sector? You're not. For what? You didn't have the courage or the anarchy suit you, you didn't have enough knowledge or you were afraid of choices and how it would affect your rating. Well, you see you didn't do anything, and yet it's reflected on your rating. The arrangement of our country is a priority. The improvement of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a priority for us. A better life for citizens is a priority, but that better life can't be in the anarchy that you have cherished. A better life can't go through the way to bankruptcy where you brought us. You know, when the lights go out, anything's possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52083	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52084	We also light all possible reflectors in this way, equating that public sector wages are equal and fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52085	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, you have no right to a replica. He didn't mention your name or name. He spoke – you, you. I don't know who the four of you are referring to. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. At the name of the member and member of the 33rd amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vučković, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted together. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 33rd amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52086	The Honorable Chairman, article 33, speaks of severance. You have provided by the proposal of Article 33 that an employee shall be entitled to severance if his employment relationship ceases because he is established as an over-employee or due to the expiry of the period within which he has been unscheduled under the law, as well as that the employee has the right to leave for retirement. As far as this part of the article is concerned, we have proposed a clearer and much wider formulation, which is that an employee whose employment relationship stops has the right to pay in accordance with a law establishing working relations, not these restrictions that further reduce the right to the compensation of employees. Also, our amendment has another part. I've talked about it before. The third position of this member says -- the right to the dispatch of professional members of the Serbian Army is determined by a special law. We felt it was necessary to add a part that said that their position could not be worse than the position in which we were to apply the provisions of this law. You have, of course, refused this amendment, because you want to narrow down, first of all, the rights of employees to the severance of only these three cases, and not to other cases when someone stops working, and also, you want to leave room for professional members of the Serbian Army to reduce the rights to severance in relation to the right when that severance is obtained and how much it should be. It is very interesting that the last part of your argument, which says that the rights to exercise this right relating to severance, their height and the way it is realized, will be governed in accordance with a special law, and there is no concern, I do not know how you are now telling us that there are no afraid, professional members of the Serbian Army that they will be in a worse position than if the provisions of this law were applied. What we repeat all the time is that this policy that every law that the assembly majority has passed over the last four years is merely reduced rights in the last four years, only reduced employees' rights, workers' rights, rights that were elected decades ago. Now you're coming, supposedly the most capable and the best, and you're trying to reduce the rights related to the exercise of various other rights, profits and everything else, every point of the law, every member of the law, every law we've passed here, has reduced the rights. There are no cases that some laws have extended their rights. So, you just punish people who work in this country, whether they work in the private sector, whether they work in the state. We have this debate, to remind those who may or may not have been at the time, that we had similar discussion and similar arguments when the Labour Act was passed. We now repeat them here when it comes to public sector wages, but we felt that private sector employees must have some rights, not to be slaves. You Serbian citizens are also turning this law and all the laws we have passed into slaves. That's what the citizens of the election will punish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52087	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52088	I'm glad, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad that the argument that's been made is repeated, and it was presented when the Labour Act is being debated. I would like the effect of this law to be the same as the effect of the Labour Act, because it is the consequence of the Labour Act and that the unemployment rate in Serbia from a catastrophic 26%, your 26%, has been reduced to slightly more than 17%. If the effect of this law will be the same as the effect of the Labour Act, as your argument is the same, we are not on excellent, we are on a phenomenal path. I thank you for giving us confirmation of that. When the reductions in the rights of employees and the amendment's proposal is in line, it says that these rights are only shrinking, the only thing that has fallen from the field of labour and employment relations in Serbia is the unemployment rate. Again, from 26% to the present slightly more than 17%. And we're not satisfied, there's still a lot of people in Serbia without a job, and we want in the future, through investment, through the real sector, to get that rate back to that rate since 2008, which is about 13% that you've managed with such a successful policy that you've led to double. Be careful, champions of the production of unemployed people, champions who from 13% in 2008 brought the number of unemployed to 26% by 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52089	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52090	You promised 200,000 jobs, 400,000 people you left without a job. I think you're the last one who has the right to talk about the unemployed and their rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52091	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52092	Of course, when you have no arguments, you reach out to a thousand repeated untruths, some alleged percentages, and a reduction in the unemployment rate. When you take a good look at the statistics you boast about, then you will see that the number of unemployed in Serbia at the beginning of 2012 was 753 thousand, and that today is the number of 75,000. There are various ways in mathematics that you could practically convert a single number or this reduction of 2,000 into absolute numbers into percent from 26 to 17. You can turn them into five, but it has nothing to do with real life. It's a good thing, which is a real life very different from your pink statistic. You can only have that on your pink television, and the citizens of Serbia live a different life, so they will thank you for the elections and send you into history.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52093	Do you want to pick up the amendment, Mr. Granny? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52094	There is, Mr. Becic, only one method of reckoning and there is no harm, because if they were counting in 2012, and they couldn't get over the lips of that 26%, they never crossed their lips that 26%, one government from 13% to 26% increased the unemployment rate. Not at all. I'll take it. We can put that kind of mathematics aside, although the exact same method of calculating the percentage of the number of unemployed people was both done in 2012, and 2014, and now in 2016. The fact is that we now have far more payments based on pension and social insurance on employees than in 2012 and is higher by this 7%, as we have reduced the unemployment rate, but we have reduced the unemployment rate in the real sector, as Mr. Vukic opened a factory in Ruma yesterday with Mr. Martinovic. As you can see, the factories are being opened every day. Every day foreign investments come to the Republic of Serbia, from "Teniz" and beyond. That's what doesn't suit you because at that unemployment rate and foreign investment you even accounted for Miskovic's sales "Maxia". He says he can, and even a man didn't pay a tax to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52095	Mr. Granny, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52096	Since when can selling private assets be a direct foreign investment? Is there a math that can explain something like that? There's no such thing as math. I'm still saying what's real. The unemployment rate in Serbia remains high, but we are fighting daily, through every factory that the Serbian government has helped to open, with a better investment climate, by making progress on the Duing Business List for 32 seats, laws that the Vice-President here has also proposed, such as the Inspection Control Act, and many other laws have contributed to the daily employment of people in Serbia, not on a party basis, not on the basis of familiarity, but on the basis of quality, and I also saw it yesterday in Ruma when young people got a job and received education, or qualifications in Poland. It is due to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the politics of Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52097	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. National MPs Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52098	Respected Serbian citizens, one beautiful thought says – when a man gets on the wrong train, all his stations are wrong. This wrong concept that has been applied in Serbia for four years, citizens are the best witnesses, there is no end. It wasn't enough that you cut salaries and pensions, that you reduced your salary to 30,000, to the doctors of 40,000, etc., now you're reducing all other rights acquired, such as the right to severance. No response from people is no reason why you don't wonder if there's an end. There are people around us who are in big trouble. There are people around us who fight daily for existence and instead of helping them and giving them chances and opportunities for progress and for work, you go the other way. This article 33, as Mr Babic explained it, really delights me in his presentation, which I don't think he can believe in what he's saying, is about severance, not what he's been saying, and these are percentages that concern the number of employees. Madam Minister, for the previous four years, in the data Mr Babic provided, the population in the Republic of Serbia has dropped drastically, so that the ratio from 26% to 17% is not correct. The exact number is 753,000 people who were unemployed three years ago and 751,000 currently counting. If we took into account this reduction in population, then you would see how big a problem it is and how unemployed Serbian citizens are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52099	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52100	Mr. Chairman, do you understand the morbidity of the words of the previous speaker, do you realize that he said, I suppose, that he would pull something out of his sleeve, that 7% of the people in Serbia are less alive, have they moved away or, God forbid, there was something else with them? Just so he doesn't see the results this government has achieved for the past two years. He said so many people in the Republic of Serbia fell. No, they didn't get a job, they moved somewhere, they went somewhere or, God forbid, something happened to them. Do you understand the morbidity of these words? I know someone comes from the end of the famous Tarabics, but I don't think it's serious that we're turning the National Assembly into that everyone, if it comes from that area, has those powers. I will talk to you about companies, such as "Meita Group" 60m euros in investment; "Strate Nova" 18; "Teklas" 11.3; "Long Center Belgrade Ijmaks" ninem euros in investment; "Chadari Group" 8.5m euros in investment; "Masterplast JU" 8.5m in investment, etc., etc. I can talk as much as you want. This isn't a story, Tarabici. This is not a story but 7% of the people in Serbia have gone away, moved away or you don't know what. This is a real sector. This is life in Serbia. This is what's happening. Can you do better? Yeah. Shall we fight for the better? Yes, we will. Are we never going back in time for Pitiæ, Chad and the others? No, we're not going back to that time, ever again. Not by our will, but by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who clearly distinguish between these years and this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52101	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, on what grounds? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Tarabiqi. Your name is not Tarabic, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I have to explain. Mr. Markovic, it's not right. The first thing you did was challenge the replica. In your presentation, you cannot, as before Mr Babic, make arguments, percentages that make you think that your amendment should be accepted, as Mr Babic made an argument as to why he does not think it should. I listened very carefully to Mr. Babic, at one point he said something, and I interrupted him. So he was talking professionally about the amendment that was the subject of the debate. You picked up a few lines afterwards, because you mentioned several people, on purpose, and now you're asking to get a replica based on what someone said about Tarabic. It's not right. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I can't give it to you according to the Rules of Procedure, because you're going to abuse it. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: he said I said something I didn't say. He called my words morbid. You pretend you don't know what this is about. You can insult me, it's no problem at all. You can say everything you say, it's not a problem. You can insult me in the absence of some other people, call me cattle. It's no problem, but don't do it to other MPs. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: he said my words were morbid. That's what they were like. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Markovic, don't stand there like a stiff tomato and distract me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52103	Mr. Risticevic, let's get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52104	He can't distract me. I confirm that when someone gets on the wrong train, every station will be wrong. My previous speaker is definitely on the wrong train. That train wasn't on the Chargan Eights, which got him a little carried away. He knows very well. You get into the Chargan Eights, you see from the car what's going on around you, in the rest of the train. The train he's talking about is on Frusch Mountain, in Mosha's villa. It will determine who's in the wrong car, who's in the wrong cells, and the train and all those attached cars are wrong, I expect a happy prime minister. When we talk about severances, which is the essence of the amendment, first of all, let me say that three amendments have been proposed to the same member. They're falling apart at such a rate that I can't follow. They proposed two amendments first, from the same party to the same member. In one article, it is deleted, and then in the next two changes, that is, in the other, it changes, and now they have one wipe, the Duke of Maldives, Balša of Maldives, deletes the member, and then the other one asks to change that attitude and that one. How do we change the attitude of the law in the article that was deleted? It's not clear to me at all, as I don't understand when the severances are spoken of by those who were masters of sending workers from their jobs. The state fell down, Montenegro separated, the Martian pogrom looked at it like that, suggested some decorations in the UN that we could not intervene on Kosovo and Metohija, etc., but the number in the public sector has increased by 200,000. The state has fallen, the number of real sector employees have shipped them. For example, in 2003 alone, 295,000, and from 2008 until the beginning of 2012, another 276,827 jobs, so many people have sent those who are now so worried about the severance of workers. In doing so, they increased the public sector by 2,000 only during the reign of that gray pale man who ruled the text messages, and he did not hold any government sessions at all. Is that why you sent over one 100,000 workers to make that kind of debt because we didn't make money, so some other generations will be coming back, including us now. As if that's what you and those text messages say -- yes, that's what we're teaching in Moshin's villa, teaching on Maldives, teaching on Briones, teaching on Virgin Islands, paying subsidies that are impossible and today they're the ones who are responsible for that saying "is walking like rain around Kragujevac", those who deserve the proverb now to read "seeing as a self-serving worker". Now they give us a lecture on the public sector, on severances, and hundreds of thousands of people have been deprived, not only of jobs, not only of wages, but of dignity that they can't deliver personal incomes to their families, they've damaged their funds, because there's not so much contribution because people on the income side have been transferred to expenditure and become social cases, and they don't serve their families with pride, shame and cannot influence their children, it's totally gross in families, because as the parent you sent out of production so easily and from work maybe with some dignity comes every first, every tenth to deliver personal income to his family and take them at least to the cevapes, if not to the Maldive, Brione, Dubai, as your officials do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52105	On behalf of the members and members of the 34th Amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, and joint MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov, together. Members of the 34th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52106	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Ministerial with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has submitted an amendment to Article 34, i.e. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS is replaced by the words – in Article 34, the words "special law" are replaced by the words "law that regulates, or regulates working relations". The amendment proposes to specify Article 34 by proposing to apply the Labour Act, not to apply a special law, because it is not precise enough and opens up the possibility of different interpretations and, nevertheless, puts the possibility of settling the issue into a future Lex specialis. The essence of this amendment is that, all the time going through this law, you get the impression that you're reading the fairy tale "Care's new suit" and I'm afraid it'll end the way the fairy tale ended. Those who read know that, and I believe we had a chance at least in our childhood to read it. What's amazing about this whole situation is that all of us are going to go back to our environments where we came from, have the opportunity to explain this revolutionary and many similar laws to our fellow citizens, and they will be delighted with what we offer them. They'll be less excited about this debate of ours, in which percentages, so the position and opposition are fairly equally represented. That's devastating, because probably the time that was set for the debate on this led to an unpleasant situation and position and opposition. How important it is and how much I care about someone under this law, it says that it is the attitude of the MPs who have been sent here to debate the amendments. Just because someone doesn't have an amendment or no offer to improve the solution doesn't mean they're right, it means they have no idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52107	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th Amendment, together the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Vesna Martinovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 35th amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52108	Article 35 refers to the fact that an employee has the right to pay, to pay, to pay, to pay, to receive expenses and other benefits during work abroad to which he is referred by the employer in accordance with the law. I think the wording of this member is logical and what was my motive to somehow engage in defining this member is precisely this non-proportional relationship between the proposal and what is currently going on, and about increasing profits. I am absolutely sure that this is not how decisions were first to apply various provisions concerning both severance and many other things, pay increases, transport costs, and it remains, but what is disproportionate to reality here is the problem that we have opened up about wage increases. I really think that given the policy of this government and this ministry, by the peril of profit and trend of daily and monthly or annual wage cuts, profits in the public sector, given the fact that with this proposal that will very quickly make the citizens feel, they are reducing their profits by about 10%. So, I think it was good that this term of salary increase was simply erased because it offends people's intelligence and doesn't stand in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52109	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52110	I will again use almost identical arguments for this amendment as well as for one a few minutes ago, and that is whether the amendment promoter would do such a thing and give such rights to employees that he is an employer? Would the acceptance of this amendment create enormous costs, say the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Imagine that now every ambassador, every employee of our embassy, anywhere in the world, every single one of our consuls has a right every day to a daily journal, like the amendment promoter designed it? Imagine how much money that is, and they already have a slightly higher salary, they have expenses that they generate every month. Now, populistly, they don't do the budget, they don't charge it, but thank God and they don't empty it, then, like we used to do in those old cartoons, "Sport Billy," so he had a bag, so he pulled whatever he wanted out of that bag. It's these amendments. They have nothing to do with public finances, they have nothing to do with real life, but they're being written, populistly ousting some ideas that have nothing to do with reality. Would you allow, in this way, as an amendment promoter, that every ambassador, that anyone employed in our embassies anywhere abroad has the right to have a salary every day, besides expenses, besides all that, even on diaries, small, large, like this or like that? How much would that cost, and how much would that blow be for our public finances, and would the amendment promoter allow such a thing to have a private firm, that this private firm has a representativeship somewhere, which I personally wish, abroad, that these people pay as much as they pay for it and that every day because they do that job to pay for their daily living? I wouldn't, gentlemen, because one is theirs, and the other is state. With the state, you're wasting your money, and theirs is saving. I think that this is how the state behaves domestically and as RS citizens expect the state and government to have the money of all RS citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52111	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. How can you not be mentioned? Not for a second did Mr. Babic mention you. He didn't even say the previous speaker. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: He didn't mention me by name and last name? He said the amendment promoter. ) The amendments are proposed by Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. It means none, that there's one so I can interpret it. I guess it's not, or I don't have enough arguments to think it is. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: As you consider. ) On behalf of Chapter 4 and Article 36 of the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and joint MPs Natasa Vučković, Balša Bozovic and Mrs Jerkov submitted together. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52112	Dear Minister, this member of the 36th is talking about the obligation of the head of the body to plan and to achieve it so that the costs are within the budget and to put the budget first again, not the function of the body to provide a service or to do a job. Now I find it interesting that you are in the light of this law, which you have proposed, has the mandatory part that says – an estimate of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this law, you wrote here that there will be no cost for the budget except that there will be five people employed who will work in the ministry and you have indicated how much their costs will be. In 12 months, it's about four million dinars. Now I'm asking you as an organ manager who planned some business, which obviously can't end up under a planned budget that was adopted at the end of last year, do you now fall under a member of this bill as some kind of manager who didn't plan his budget well, because you're saying that you need to hire another five people and get four million dinars at the level of the year? Is the purpose of the work of state, or all public services, of all public sector employees to comply with his Majesty's budget? In our view, they should think about the function for which there are, teachers and educators to educate children, health workers on how to improve the health status of Serbian citizens, judges and prosecutors on how to be more justice, and of course the budget needs to be respected and there is no dispute, but it cannot have priority over the performance of those functions that they all need to perform. That is why we have proposed to delete it because it is completely contrary to the policy we are conducting, but in line with this government's policy and another good reason not to vote for Alexander Vukic in the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52113	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52114	I absolutely agree that this is exactly the divide between our policies because eradicating this member and proposing's wishes is to get into total anarchy. Anyone can hire, anyone can pay as much as they want, anyone can break through, and at the end of the year, the bill becomes a budget deficit as the public debt has grown, as it has grown by arithmetical progress and how the burden on all RS citizens has grown. It is the policy of the amendment promoters, and I am sure that this policy of anarchy, politics, that everyone does what they want and what they want, and that only the bill exposes all the citizens of RS, because what is the budget than all the citizens of RS, that this policy will receive such massive support in the elections that simple people worship such a policy or policy of planning? That's why exactly the kind of anarchical policy that's been led, and then I'm not surprised why in our schools the toilets are such that he wouldn't bring in a pet, let alone a child, that our hospital conditions are catastrophic and that I don't believe anyone can be treated there. Why? Because you said - go ahead, do whatever you want, spend as much as you want, we will not ask you anything, just vote and vote for the amendment. It's a disaster policy. Is that a country? Is that the system? Is that arranged? It's not gentlemen. Of course it has to be planned for me too, I've been doing this math now, I've been constantly pushing those four million dinars for five employees, so when you divide those four million into five employees, it's 800,000 a year, then 12 months, so when you refuse the contributions and everything goes to the employer's burden, we get even less than the average salary in Serbia as many people will be paid. So don't talk about some of the amounts that stand, but when you look at how monthly it is, it's even less than the average salary in Serbia, and it's really not some cost to implement this law. I'm glad you're making it quite a difference between our policies, because I believe that people with special enthusiasm will vote for anarchy, vote that there is no order, vote that my God can plan for profit. Are you in your house planning your expenses? Are you planning on spending? I'm planning on it. I don't have that much. I don't have a well of oil, I don't have a gas exploitation somewhere so I can say, I don't care how much my kids spend. No, I'm taking care of how much I'm going to spend, and you who in the house, I believe, are planning, as well, me and most RS citizens, and you don't want the state to plan, and you don't want the state to know at the beginning of the year how much they're going to spend on salaries? Please, that's rude. It's rude to say - let the state do something I wouldn't do. The state money and money of the citizens of RS should be made available not in a domestic way, but in the way that they want and as much as they want. Don't do anything and suggest something you wouldn't do with your money. If this is the difference in our policies, and it is, the arrangement of anarchy, the order of disorder, I'm glad it's the difference in our policies because by proposing you would never accept and therefore I support the government's refusal of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52115	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52116	Restrictions, of course, exist in the Budget Law, so their place here is on that side and completely excessive. Mr. Babic could not bother the brain in these late hours and account for what these salaries are, the minister wrote, I did not say anything in that sense and that these salaries are large or small. Two consultants with a basic net salary of 43,266 dinars, which is higher than average, two independent advisors with an average basic salary of 54,000 and one senior adviser with an average salary of 67,000. I was talking about that on this case he showed that it's not always possible to plan everything, but some things lead your life. I guess the basic function should be to carry out the work for which a certain state authority is in charge. This idea of painting schools and hospitals, which someone hasn't painted in 12 years, and now someone's gonna paint in 100 days, well, I'm asking you -- and what did you do for four years? Why didn't you paint those schools and hospitals for the first 100 mandates, if that is the maximum of knowledge and skills and contribute to improving the lives of Serbian citizens? Will this trigger Serbia's economy, provide better schooling conditions, better treatment conditions? Of course not. It is a simple pre-election paint, and it will be recognised and punished by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52117	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52118	I thank you for these wishes for 100 mandates. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: For what replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52119	Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Babic's name and name. There you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52120	I, Mr. Becic, thank you for these wishes that we will have 100 mandates. I believe that Alexander Vukic's policy will have many more mandates and will receive them, not from the previous speaker, but from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. But I want to answer the question why we didn't do it in the previous period. You know why? First we had to pay back the debts, first we had to pay back those bills that you made, and then we bought, of course, the way it works, we bought the brushes, we bought the paint, we bought the paint, we bought everything we needed to paint, and now it's time to paint. We had to do everything you didn't do first. We had to pay back your debts. We had to clean up what was left behind, so we moved forward. Now it's time to paint, and it's not even good for you. So, what do you guys want? Well, do you want schools and hospitals that get stuck in your nose? Do you think that's how we can wait for the future? And now it bothers you. It bothers you because we're going to put new tables on, because we're going to give these kids a decent place to school, our oldest citizens a decent place to fight for better health, where they're going to get such conditions. It doesn't suit you either, but you're comfortable with the arrangements at Mosha's villa. Let's go again, how are we gonna get together...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52121	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52122	... All those who have been fighting for years to get back to some mandates. With what policy? Politics against Wolfie. It's Bojan Pitiæ's policy and yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52123	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 36th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52124	Article 36 says that the body, organisation or other organisational form manager in the public sector is referred to in Article 1 etc. It should plan, i.e. it must plan funds in accordance with the frameworks of budgetary constraints, and I underline that, for the current and the next two financial years. What makes it very important to underline this term of “limitation ”? Serbian citizens should know that after all the restrictions, after all the reductions, after all the failures of their functioning and work, this state, how can I say, is not going to last, but will deepen. So if we go back to some of the previous members we talked about, Madam Minister, then we come to the next conclusion. Let's say we have the town of Uzice that was in debt a month ago with 200 million dinars to cover the current costs of liquidity and the rest. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: How about a little change? That's according to the amendment. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Well, not according to the amendment. ) Mr Babiću, if we hold on to this amendment, or this article, we come to the next situation – that citizens must know that the town of Užice must be in debt for 200 million next year, and in two years 200 million again. So if that's within the budget that's planned, that's the budget limit, I want to point out that local administrations won't have the funds in the coming years to plan the funds as they've been doing these years. (Zoran Babic, from the place: What? ) Well, precisely because this year the amount of their budgets was planned by borrowing, and they come to no longer be in debt. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52125	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they won't forgive us for all our mistakes, not even some of them. So that restriction is for several reasons. One of these was that it fell apart, which at the time when they ruled it was not from the earner, but from the man in charge. Well, when there wasn't enough in the public sector to make money, they say, "Who's cutting your hair, we'll put you in charge." The product of that state while they ruled was long. Now it's time to live off what's earned and we have a country that lives on the income it collects, but it has to pay back what's at the time when what hasn't been earned has been spent. The time has come. Return as you longed for. But now the problem is that the coke that took it to Maldives, Briones, resorts, spent on yachts, etc., so, let's say, 5000 people moved to Kovacica after privatisation, those famous privatisations of three sugars per three euros. It belonged to the then business or financial director of the former regime's party. Look at the wonders, just him! I don't know what they promised this Beslimi, if you don't give God power, but I think that in that case, not only in Kovacica, but in Vojvodina, Serbia will not remain, perhaps except Belgrade, any residents, given the behaviour that is appropriate to them. And that one of my advice is friendly: no one repented when he ate moderately and spoke moderately. That's why I'm proposing to my colleagues from the opposition to try to bring it in line with that proverb, because in that case, the one that's wrong and all the stations that are wrong, which is currently parked in Frusha Gora, in Mosha's villa, can very easily fall off that train, because they can negotiate something there without them being on that train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52127	Thank you. On behalf of Glava V, the name of the member and Article 37, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Aleksandra Jerkov. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr Blagoja Bradic together. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52128	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 37, and something has happened that is quite amazing. Article 37 reads, I will read it in order to make it easier for you to send out what happened in this case – the acts of Article 10(7) of this Act will be passed by the Government within six months of the entry into force of this law. Our amendment reads - we propose that Article 37 be deleted, on the grounds that we propose this because we believe that coefficients, pay classes and pay groups and different titles and positions already governed by a special law should also be regulated by law. The answer, i.e. the argument – the amendment is not accepted for reasons why the Government act does not regulate the coefficients, pay classes, salaries, but the coefficients will be determined by a special law. So we're going round and round. We think we should delete, because there are already special laws, and in reason we get that same answer. The answer that our argument has given in addition to the amendment we are getting about the answer for the refusal of amendments, the explanation, which is the reason for the amendment. It speaks of how serious it is to approach and I wish we hadn't come to the situation that we have to endure amendments, that the law is good enough for the citizens, and we are all aware, regardless of the political belief and pauses that we represent among other citizens, because it would be an interest to all citizens. In this case, it turns out we're against something. We don't mind, I just want to be heard in time and properly interpreted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52129	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52130	Dear Minister, given that we have repeatedly repeated that it is really unacceptable to discuss such an important law in the way it is discussed and that we have received this bill less than 24 hours in relation to the requirements for the amendments to be written, and that we have come to the situation of talking about the law in such a difficult atmosphere, we believe that it is unacceptable, the first thing that your consent to this choice is, that this is how this is discussed, and that 500 thousand people who are expected to adopt this law, that it is indeed an impossible atmosphere in which it is concerned. On the other hand, there is no constructive approach that would improve this law. Our attempt, to say, to improve this law, was predicated to failure. So, in this case, I think it's very bad that after three or four years of announcing this law, it continues to delay its application. I think it's unacceptable to leave six months as a deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts on a law that has 40 members. Given Serbia's public expectations regarding the law, I felt it would be good for the package to come out with proposals and to speed up the application of this law. Also, given that some of the provisions of the law will only be applied in 2018, we also find it inadmissible, and therefore we have suggested that this amendment be adopted, i.e. to delete this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52131	Thank you. The members and members of the 38th amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and joint MPs Vukkovic, Bozovic, Jerkov. Members and members of the 38th amendment were filed by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52132	Dear Vice-President, Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, SDS MP Boris Tadic, the ZZS, has suggested that article 38 be deleted with a reason to delete this member, since this member is effectively forecasting an increase in the base of the government's salary, namely that the government will coordinate the coefficients. So to reduce them compared to the existing solution, but that the basic salary will remain unchanged, which is only possible if the base is increased. This puts an employee in an unequal position whose basis is set by law in the budget. In the light of this amendment, as it is not accepted, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the very reason that it is defined in this Article 38, which cannot be seen from it in any way, the proposal for a law establishing the comparison of the coefficients of the employees to which the current basis is established by the Government, with employees whose basis is set out in the Budget Law. So it's definitely some kind of accounting operation, but in all these operations, accounting, there's no one to whom all this applies. In any case, he will remain, to say a quantitative term, short sleeves, and I fear that the people who have done these jobs for whom they have been paid in a certain way in the coming period will be able to expect that amount to be lower with a very reasonable explanation and very correct and very extensive accounting operations. I mean, if it's not good for anyone, if we all think of ourselves as workers, then it would be good to be in fact, so through legal solutions see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52133	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Mr. Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52134	We have pointed out several times in this debate the fact that it is unacceptable to make an even greater difference between the public sector which is not covered by this law and between all those actions covered by the law, especially those of the actions covered by this law, and here I am primarily referring to education and health, to all those people who have made their contribution or their sacrifice for years to fill the budget, and in the end they stayed with the message of this Government that this is insufficient, i.e. that they are still expected to be reduced salaries. So we felt that it was good for this article to be erased because the injustice that is being achieved by this law, this member to be growing, that the effects and objectives set out in this law were not fulfilled that it was necessary to take into account the needs of these areas, these actions and those people who have experienced an even greater injustice with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52135	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52136	Just because it's been repeated several times, and not that thesis I've been answering a long time ago, there may be new citizens who have been involved in this debate, just to point out that this law will not cut anyone's wages except for those who are absolutely jumping out. When we look at everything and see how much they pay for the same work, and we don't expect it to be that large a number of people. But what is most important in 2017 is that everyone enters with, at least with the income they have, and the harmonisation with the regulations of this law and with the regulations that will come out of it will be gradually and above all, in the sense that some wages will grow faster. Those who find out that they are further away from those who are supposed to have profits compared to other people in the administration and in the entire public administration and in the whole state. And those who jump out a little while, and no one who jumps out is too much of a salary in Serbia, they will wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52137	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I understand the Proposer, he says they suggested that this member be deleted, so I understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52139	No, Mr. Risticevic, there's an amendment that requires a change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52140	No, Mr. Balsha submitted to delete himself, but the promoter explained it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52141	They have more amendments they couldn't agree on, so they have more amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52142	Well, he can't talk about the amendment regarding Balša Bozovic. So, the amendment he proposed, and he didn't see it, is that attitude 1. is changed and said. And he, in his explanation, says he suggested that this member be deleted. So, as far as I can tell, this big emergency coalition has completely messed them up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52143	Thank you. The members and members of the 39th amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic and the joint MPs Vukkovic, Bozovic, Jerkov. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 39th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52144	Article 39 has the title – alignment of specific laws and is now said here that by 1 January 2017, laws will be adopted governing the working legal status of salaries and other remuneration of public service employees, the authorities of the Autonomous province, units of local self-government, public agencies and other bodies, organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government. Well, next thing you know, this whole thing's gonna be diluted. So it's like nothing's written in these, like nothing's written in the previous 38 members of this law. The law is again passed to determine salaries in the public services of AP local units, public agencies, etc. There's a very good explanation for a word that steams ears like that, and if citizens look at this, they can understand what the word means in political life – adapting the pay. In the practice of this government, whenever it comes to adapting profits, pensions or something else, it was just a way to avoid a word – reduction. So, respected citizens and an explanation for not accepting this amendment, the government admits that when all the laws that provide for this law are passed and set up this famous alleged system will be adapted to your profits, and read this in the dictionary of this government, the cuts in profits, because in any case when spoken...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52145	Time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52146	... about adapting this adjustment meant less income.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52147	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: I have two seconds left, don't interrupt me, you interrupted me for a minute and 58, don't do that anymore. I had two more seconds. You turned off my microphone for a minute and 58.) I didn't turn off the microphone, it's your microphone, and I apologize if I did, if that's two seconds. You've finished your sentence, and I thanked you for your exposure. Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 39th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52149	Well, this article also refers to the harmonisation of specific laws and regulations and what is controversial for us is that in the proposal of this member, as well as in the whole bill, there is no clear vision and a clear goal of what is achieved with this law. I have the impression that this alignment is kind of delayed, that these sublegal acts that are being passed will be the continuation of the tampering that this government has on this matter. We think it was inadmissible to come out in this way with this proposal and that a huge number of people, thousands of people who are employed in very important areas, are left to waste, i.e. to continue to reduce their rights, their profits are reduced, and their chances for progress are diminished. Therefore, the delay for six months of this law until the sublegal acts are passed, for us it is also unacceptable, if four years are announced. We think it was okay and that there was plenty of time to do both sublegal acts and to go public with a comprehensive solution. We also think that this status of police is still undefined and we have given the amendment that is in the follow-up of the formulation, which is related to the Army of the Republic of Serbia, also refers to the police, given the specific affairs and circumstances in which they sometimes function and we felt it was good for them to also be provided for by these sublaws and terms that are foreseen here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52150	Thank you. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together the MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted together to the 40th amendment. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52151	This member is practically the last member to say that the law has entered into force on the eighth day since the publication in the "Official Messenger" and that the sublaw must be adopted by 1 January. That's what we were talking about right in front of this member. What is my impression and what should be my message here to tell the citizens of Serbia, and this law does not achieve the objectives that have been discussed for three years, because we are absolutely certain and convinced that this law will have negative consequences and effects on public sector employees and that injustice is deepening here, and it does not resolve, that agony continues here, in particular, for those people who are educated and professional and who have confirmed by their work that they have the opportunity to improve their institutions and their environments and that they are the chance to develop, not only their institutions, but also local administrations and societies in general. The way this government treats these people is worrying and the way this law is being placed is worrying and I think that all the restrictions that this law provides are totally inadmissible, that this law, in a very fast period of time, will show that it had no clear plan, goal. Unfortunately, we are not going to get into a situation where people who deserve rewards to increase profits and incomes, and therefore I think the chance to improve this law in one dialogue, in a serious discussion and debate, rather than in these conditions. We, as a Parliament club, have given everything that is up to us, that both in the preparation of the amendments and in this principle debate, and in this debate, it works and affects, but unfortunately, we didn't have a talker in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52152	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge that the amendment not be accepted and I consider this amendment to be a 40th wonderful crown on the story of everything we could hear today from the direction of these promoters. The amendment to Article 40 reads this way, it is proposed that – the law applies from 1 January 2017, i.e. from 1 January 2017. A wonderful contribution to everything we've heard today, and who's talking again about how much we understand what we're talking about today, how much we understand what we're proposing and how much it all makes sense together. If there was a hope that one of the citizens could expect a minimum of seriousness from the promoter, I think we've put an end to it tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52154	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinković and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together. Mr. Djurishic, I'm always ready to accept a mistake and admit a mistake if I make it, and that's why I looked into the e-parliament and here we see that you've been talking for exactly two minutes and I haven't turned off your microphone for a minute and 58 seconds. You can see for yourself on the e-parliament. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52155	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, MP Boris Tadic – SDS - ZZS, has submitted an amendment to Article 40, and we wanted this amendment to help better implement the law by extending the deadline for its application, i.e., this law should enter into force on the eighth day following the publication of the "Official Messenger" and should start from 1 January 2017, and for police officers and professional members of Serbia's Army since 2018. We proposed that it be from 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2019. We believe that it is more consistent that this legislation is in line with the necessary supporting documentation, that is, the laws to be more comprehensive, because we believe that it is not directed, or according to the way the law is written, it is possible in the next year, or in this year, to complete everything that is necessary, and in particular that we know that we have in the next two months a pre-election campaign, elections, and the formation of a government, parliament, and by law all the laws that have arrived in parliament, go back and again have to be submitted. So maybe this solution would be okay if we didn't, that we wouldn't have parliamentary elections, and since we will, I think this is for the benefit of the citizens and that we can accept a longer period of application for this law, for the start of application.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52156	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the second item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on general administrative procedure. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Members of the Parliament group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our MP group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS, has submitted 39 amendments to the draft law on general administrative procedure, precisely because this law is of great importance, because every citizen, in some period of his life and in some respect, meets with the authorities that have to apply this law. That's why it was in the interest of the citizens to get the better text. We have tried to influence our amendments to improve the text that is before us. The first amendment also applies to Article 1 which regulates and more precisely regulates the concept of administrative procedure, since the definition contained in the proposal for a law is not clear enough which undertakings, institutions and organisations are acting in administrative matters, this and for reasons why individuals entrusted with public authority are designated to the members concerned. Our amendment removes any doubt as to the subjects applying the set of rules by acting in administrative matters. However, as we have seen, the previous amendment has been accepted and analysed, we have realized that what we propose to supplement in Article 1 and that it is specified that it is covered by the amendment that has been accepted, which means that it has been accepted indirectly in this way and our amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52158	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpand Fremond, Zoltan Peck, Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes the amendment is in line with the constitutional legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs of the Social Democrats League Group submitted to the 4th amendment. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the title above Article 7 of the amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, together submitted the 7th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 7 regulates the principle of the protection of party rights and the exercise of public interest, and we have suggested that it be complemented by the classification of the term "faster". The principle of protection of the rights of parties and the exercise of public interest implies the obligation of the Authority to enable the parties not only to facilitate their rights and interests, but also as quickly as possible, since the efficiency of the proceedings in the context of the protection of the rights of parties, implies and speed in the conduct of the bodies, and in our opinion this is necessary to achieve and raise the importance of speed to the level of principle. We are not surprised that this amendment has not been accepted. I will remind you of what I presented in the debate in principle, that this law in the prime minister's exposé was on the agenda for the laws to be passed in the first 100 days of the government. Here we are waiting to discuss it now, to discuss the amendments in the middle of the night so that it can be brought before the election is called. So much for the idea of government, speed and expeditionivity.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52160	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52161	I'd just like to point out that what was included in the amendment is to be as quickly covered by the principle of efficiency and economics of procedures as possible. Article 9(2) shall be followed without delay and at a minimum cost per party and other participants, etc. I would now just say once, that one of the important things, to say, the change that was created to do in this law, on the path of alignment with the European administrative space, is that nothing too excessive, unnecessary, anything that actually, with a simple logical interpretation of the principle or norms that are set, can be carried out as a conclusion from that principle. It's just one of the things that we have to change in our legislation because life is getting more and more complicated and if we're trying to make every logical and possible thing clear, then we'll always leave some logical and possible things, not precise, and then we have a problem that we have to change laws to adapt to life. In this regard, there will be more of such interventions in progress, i.e. such essential responses and the reasons why the amendments have been rejected, and I have now explained it a little longer. In the future, I'll just call on this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52162	The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 8th amendment. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52163	Article 8 regulates the principle of assistance to the party and we have submitted an amendment proposing to intervene in the position of two of these members. At the end of the sentence, to delete the point and add the words "and take all actions for the purpose of achieving this right, i.e. legal interest if the party and the other participant do not object to it". The principle of assistance to the ignorant party according to our position is not only exhausting on the warning of the party and other participants in the process of having the basis for the exercise of a right or legal interest, which the Authority has learned or assessed to exist, but also in the active assistance of the ignorant party to exercise that right and exercise, of course within the limits of authority and the possibilities of the acting authority. In the light of the reasons why the amendment was not accepted, it is stated that the Authority is acting in a administrative procedure and that it cannot therefore assist the party to initiate the procedure. We believe that the ignorant party is the ignorant party and that it is merely an indication that there is some possibility and that some rights are not enough help and that it should be or should be directed to an authority that can provide help and initiate the procedure or help it to initiate the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52164	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52165	Article 9 regulates the principle of efficiency and economics of the process, as the Minister spoke earlier. We felt that the article should point out that the procedure should be faster, and on Article 9, we submitted an amendment that we intervened on paragraphs 3 and 4. We believe that the principle of effectiveness and economicity of the procedure can only be fully applied if the law obliges the Authority to make an examination of the facts necessary for the decision, not only those on which the official record is kept, but also those on which the official records are not kept, but also those on which the state and other bodies have them. This is exactly the kind of fact most in legal traffic, the records in many administrative and legal areas are not set up or only partially formed, so we believe that the effectiveness and economy of the procedure can be achieved through the proposed amendment solution. In addition, the amendment proposed that the Authority's obligation to take into account information on relevant facts should not exclude the party's right to obtain, if it so wishes, such data, since the party is often more effective than bureaucracy. Based on my experience at work in management, I know that there are often documents in the archives of the state authorities, in the cases, and the original documents, which are sometimes needed again, and then the party has a big problem with getting them into these documents, so it would be one of the examples if the authority were on official duty...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52166	Time. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 9th amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 17th amendment. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 17 regulates the start of the legal fact of the administrative act, and we have proposed that it be changed, so that – The administrative act begins to produce legal facts from the date of delivery to the parties, unless the administrative act or law provides that legal facts start later. The start of the legal acts of the administrative act is important to specify, given that the party is subject to the rights and obligations, the prescribed deadlines for the fulfilment of any act by the party are starting to run, and the deadlines are also starting to run for legal medicinal products. Since the administrative act is a legal act whereby the Authority, directly applying the rules of the relevant legal area, decides on the law, obligation or legal interest of the party or on a procedural matter, and that administrative acts and solutions and conclusions are the necessary formulation of the bill under which the administrative act begins to produce a legal fact from when the party is handed down, and not from when the party is informed. The party may also be informed of the content of the act, and it is important to know the content of the act. In an explanation of why it is not accepted, it is said that notification includes delivery. It is not decidently stated anywhere, and it does not necessarily mean that it will be interpreted in the application of the law. Once again, I urge this amendment to be considered.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52168	It's the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52169	Delivery is the kind of notification in this law, and that's how it's going to be interpreted, because we're going to work on that interpretation. It is again a reflection of this change that we are trying, not trying, we intend, and I hope that the next government will do, as part of bringing our practice into line with the European administrative space. Not everything and every word can be defined and exaggerated, because at the end of the wording in the modern world is wide, changing, getting new nuances. It's important that we all understand each other and that there's a logical interpretation, that intelligence has many visions. In this case, delivery is one of these species and it is understood, i.e. from further norms in this law, that it is expected as notification to be delivered and it is defined exactly how everything is delivered and in which time limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52170	Thank you. On Chapter II, the name above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party Group. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party jointly submitted the 19th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 20th amendment. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party jointly submitted the 21st Amendment. On Chapter III, the name above Articles 2 and 22 of the amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Democratic Party Group. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted their names above Articles 23 and 23 of the amendment. The MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted their names above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. On behalf of members 25 and 25 of the amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted. On behalf of the above members and of the 25th amendment, MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic jointly submitted. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52171	Thank you. The name above Article 25 shall be the objection of the party to failure to fulfil the contractual obligations. We have proposed to amend that name by saying - the party's right to terminate the contract and object to the party for failing to fulfil the contractual obligations. We have suggested that Article 25 be amended so that it reads: "If the authority fails to fulfil the contractual obligations, the party may terminate the administrative contract unless the termination would cause damage in the public interest, but in any case, it may declare an objection". In view of the essence of the legal institute of the administrative contract, we are of the opinion that the party should also have the right to terminate the administrative contract in a situation where the Authority does not fulfil the contractual obligations, provided that such a breakup does not cause damage to the public interest. This was discussed on both the Committee and in the debate in principle, and the minister explained that this is a specific type of contract in which the parties are not equal. However, we are in favour of protecting the party in case the authority fails to fulfil its obligations, to give the party the right to terminate the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52172	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52173	The party shall be protected in such a way that if an objection is lodged and the complaint is decided and the party is found to be damaged, it may seek compensation for the damage. But what you're defining with your amendment is that if the public interest isn't, as it says, unless the breakup would cause damage to the public interest, the assumption of such a contract is that there is a public interest and that the breakup would therefore cause damage to the public interest. You can't define ex ante if there's a case where that damage might be small, but vice versa. It is simple to assume that this kind of relationship comes into place when there is one party whose interest is greater and stronger for society since it is a public interest. That's why there's this kind of relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52174	Thank you. On behalf of the 26th and 26th Amendment, the MPs of the Democratic Party Group together submitted. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 28th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52175	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, Article 28 speaks of an objection against the administrative action, and we welcome what this law now introduces. However, Article 2 limits the right and says that the objection is only allowed if the administrative action is not linked to the adoption of an administrative act. We believe that this restriction is unnecessary and bad and that, I say, restricts the good intentions of the promoter to allow this institute to object to the administrative action. We believe that, since administrative actions are material acts affecting the rights, obligations or legal interests of the parties, such as keeping records and issuing assurances, providing information, receiving statements and other actions which are carried out by legal acts, and that an objection may be made against the administrative action, and that the objection may be declared if the Authority does not take the administrative action which... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52176	Here you go. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: my microphone went off.) I didn't turn it off. Sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52177	So, we consider it unacceptable from the point of view of protecting the party's interest to condition the statement of objection only if the administrative action is not related to the adoption of an administrative act. A number of administrative actions and bodies are most often linked to the adoption of an administrative act and, in our opinion, the party should have the right to make objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52178	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 29th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The subject member shall regulate the issuing of a conviction on the facts on which the official record is kept. We intervened here in terms of deadlines. It is unacceptable to prescribe a period of eight days, as the deadline for issuing a certificate in which there is a record, when the records are established. It doesn't take eight days to issue confidence, and we suggested that that deadline be reduced to three days. Also, we believe that a five-day period is quite sufficient and appropriate in the situations of the 5th term. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: This request can be rejected by a solution. If the authority does not amend the credentials issued within a specified time limit or does not issue any new credentials or other credentials, or issues a solution that refuses the request, the party may declare the appeal as if the application had been rejected. We believe that the deadline should be five, not eight days. We have several amendments regarding the reduction of time limits for organ work. And from experience, I stand for it, because I know that they are often and overcrowded, especially workers who work on making assurances when the time comes for enrollment in schools and colleges, but when the longer term is then there is more relaxation and usually is left for the last day to do so, so I think it would be very stimulating to cut these deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52180	Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 29th amendment. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 30th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 30 regulates the issuing of a conviction on facts not subject to official records. We believe that the deadlines for issuing a conviction on facts that are not kept by official records should be shorter than they are given in the bill of law, in the spirit of the law-proclaimed principles. Therefore, we believe that the assurance or other document or solution which rejects the party's request to issue such assurances should be 15 days from the application, if the law or other regulation does not provide otherwise. We also suggest erasing item 3 because we find it unacceptable that the authority that conducts the procedure in which the credentials or other documents are submitted as evidence is not bound by their content and that it can independently determine the facts contained therein. Such a solution in cohesion is with the principles and the spirit of the law. In other words, this bill's solution results in the authority, which has obtained the assurance of another state body, reviewing its content, which is absurd. There is no co-ordination between these bodies, no supervisory right and no authority has the right to examine the correctness and content of the assurance issued by another State authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52182	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 38. The bill refers to the conflict of jurisdiction, and we have suggested that in Article 38, point 3 at the end of the sentence be replaced by a comma and that the words "taking care that the party does not suffer adverse consequences due to the resulting conflict of jurisdiction". Where a regulation determines which authority is in charge and how the consequences of the actions of an unauthorized authority, or when deciding on a conflict of jurisdiction, it shall ensure that the party, due to the conflict of jurisdiction, which did not in the nature of the matter itself, does not suffer any adverse consequences and we considered that this should stand explicitly in the text of the law, in order to prevent the possibility of the parties suffering the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52184	Thank you. On behalf of the Department, the name above the member and member of the 39th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović and Dragan Sutanovac. Members and members of the 40th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. On behalf of the above members and of the 41 amendments, the MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, together submitted amendments to Article 41. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 41 regulates the decision on the exemption of an authorised official. We felt that the three-day period of receipt of the notice of the authorised official or the requirement for exemption within which the exemption is decided is sufficient and appropriate and in the spirit of the declared legal principles of efficiency and economicity in work. So let me say, we suggested that that deadline be reduced from five to three days.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52186	Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52187	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, we felt that the last part of this member's first position, which says it sets a condition for making a decision on setting up a temporary representative, which says, means the list, when all economic representatives can be introduced under this law, and then finally it is said, anything is urgent, and the procedure must be implemented. It simply does not have to stand in the law because this solution leaves very delicate and over-expanding discretion to the authorities, which will assess whether something is urgent and whether the procedure should be implemented without any clear criteria and what is urgent, which is some time limit that is considered urgent and what means the formulation that the procedure must be implemented. For this reason we have suggested that this last part of the 1st attitude be deleted, because we believe it is necessary to leave the possibility of introducing a temporary representative by the authorities in these cases which are listed, but that this part of urgency and itself does not mean anything, and it can mean anything, that the procedure must be carried out. It's simply vague and too wide and we don't think they should be found in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52188	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 49 is in a work that regulates the overall notion and conduct of the power of attorneys and refers precisely to the concept and relationship with the party. We have suggested that item 3 be completed in the end with the words "and if the complaint is rejected and the first-degree solution confirmed and the competent public prosecutor's office", I will now explain. Since the power of attorney may be anyone who is fully, particularly capable except for a person who deals with nadrising, and that the authority shall deny representation of a solution against whom an appeal which does not delay the execution of the solution is allowed and the party shall be informed, taking into account that nadrising is prescribed as a criminal offence and that is the case with Article 342. A criminal code, that the body, by the lawfulness of the solution, is obliged to inform the public prosecutor of this situation of the possible criminal prosecution of a person involved in nadrising. The reasons for refusal are said to have already responded, i.e. that the criminal proceedings have already found that it deals with nadrising and therefore there is no need to report it to the public prosecutor, and if the person in return for the offence has so much sooner to inform the public prosecutor, and especially if only then is the case established. So we feel that the reason for the refusal is not adequate...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52190	Time. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52191	Another important element and change in the Law on General Administrative Procedure in relation to the practice that we inherited in Serbia, as well as in the former Yugoslavia, is to remove as much as possible from the Law on General Administrative Procedure Regulation, the normation of the relationship between the authorities. This law leaves only those cases that would be left unsettled, and in the future we expect to be transferred to the Law on State Administration or other norms dealing with relations between organs. Citizens need to see in one law what their rights are and how the procedure in communication with them is regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52192	Thank you. Members of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 50 regulates the duties of the authorities, and we have suggested that item 2 be completed with words, i.e. to finally delete the point point and add the words "by not being longer than 30 days". It is indisputable that the Authority may allow certain actions in the procedure to take effect on behalf of a party which has not been entrusted with the power of attorney, as this is in the interest of both the parties and the conduct of the procedure, but provided that the power of attorney is attached within the time limit set by the Authority. We believe that the deadline should be set by law and we have suggested that it be 30 days. This is aimed at implementing the principle of efficiency, economicity and efficiency of the process, because whenever there is no deadline, these actions are usually prolonged and the parties then suffer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52194	Thank you. The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 52 regulates the suspension of power of attorney, and we have proposed that, in the position of the 3rd word, "except for some action in the process" be replaced by the words "with the obligation to represent the party for another 30 days as well as for the duration of some action in the process until the party has secured another power of attorney". In fact, the dismissal of power of attorneys should not harm the interests of the party and the procedure itself, and we propose that the power of attorney in the event of the dismissal have the obligation to represent the party for another 30 days and that is analogous to the obligations of the lawyer representing the parties before the courts, of course, and while it takes some action in the procedure itself that he cannot cancel the power of attorney. We believe that, in order to protect the interests of the parties, it is necessary to apply the General Administrative Procedure Act to the power of attorney to represent the party for another 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52196	Thank you. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52197	Article 55 regulates the translation and work of interpreters. We have suggested that Article 55(1) be amended to read: “If the procedure is not conducted in the language of the party or of another participant in the procedure, they shall be translated at their request during the procedure and allow the notification in their language and letter. The amendment is an alignment with the Constitution, the legal norms on language and the letter on which the procedure is conducted, and we believe that this alignment is needed, and that the definition of how it is given in the bill is a little more raving and a little more complicated. In order to comply with the Constitution, we have proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52198	Thank you. Parliamentarians of the DS Group submitted together to Article 55 of the amendment. Parliamentarians of the DS Group submitted together to Article 56 of the amendment. Parliamentarian MPs of the DS Group submitted together to the 57th amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become part of the bill. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52199	The chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the 62nd parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS has submitted an amendment to Article 62, where we have provided for a sentence "if it cannot determine which authority is responsible for warning the applicant that, without delay, it will reject the submission for jurisdiction". So that sentence is deleted, and the reason for erasing this sentence is that the norm from Article 62. The proposal for a law "if the authority is not competent to receive a submission or to be communicated to it, it shall forward it to the competent authority and inform the applicant thereof". It guarantees legal certainty by means of this party procedure, and it is the obligation of the authority to know which authority is responsible for the handling of the legal matter, the analogous to the judicial principle and the "jure of the new girl", so the least knowledge measures of the administration are knowledge of the actual competence of the Authority. In other words, the law contains provisions on conflict of jurisdiction, so if the authority has made a mistake in forwarding the submission, that standard will apply. We think this is in favor of the party because it would avoid wandering, i.e. An extension of the resolution deadline. In this way, what is the obligation of the authority to which the objection is given, we could practically react, i.e. to help in the ignorance of the party and thus speed up the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52200	Members of the 64th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Thank you. Parliamentarians of the DS Group submitted together to Article 69 of the amendment. Thank you. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 69 regulates the question of the power of attorneys to receive the notice and in point 4 says – more than five parties in the same procedure which do not have the opposite interests and the common power of attorney are required, at the request of the authority, to provide for the provision of a common power to receive the notice within the time limit set by the Authority. If they miss it, their body sets up a common power of attorney for the reception of the notice. We have suggested that this position be changed and that there are more than five parties in the same procedure that do not have the opposite interests and the common power of attorney can determine the common power of attorney for the reception of the notice. We believe that it is not in line with the interests of the party and with the principles of the law that the Authority must determine the common authority for the reception of the notification unless the parties do so, regardless of the fact that more than five parties are involved in the same procedure which do not have the opposite interests and the common power of attorney. This and the reason why the proceedings may lead to a situation where the interests of individual parties may become contrary, since the course of the proceedings only leads to certain facts and conclusions, and we believe that in this case there should be no obligation for a common admission authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52202	Thank you. Members of the 70th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 70 regulates communication by electronic means, and we have suggested that it is changed by means of – electronic notification takes place in accordance with the law and necessarily includes confirmation proving that the document is received. Notification by electronic means shall be equated with delivery. The bill cites formal and informal notification by electronic means, in which it does not define or determine what informal notification is. We believe that communication by electronic means should not be distinguished to formal and informal, but rather its essence should be standardised as proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52204	Thank you. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a follow-up, and it's the same thing as notifying, except it's a post-mail notification case, and we also suggested that article 71 be changed by - mailing is done with the recommended mail. The letter sent to the recommended post was received on the day in receipt of the consignment. As for the mail notification, we believe that the party's notification must be done exclusively in the recommended mail, not normally. Also, the introduction of a presumption when the party received written words – it is believed to introduce legal uncertainty, make the position of the party difficult and raises the legality and legitimacy of the proceedings itself. In the light of the above, it is stated in detail how it is calculated when it is recommended, when it is not recommended. However, experience shows something else. When the shipment is sent by simple mail, and not recommended, there is no evidence and no sign that the party has received it. I personally had experience when the mailman came before I opened the law firm, because I have a grid he puts behind the bars and if the maid in the meantime cleans up, it's happened to me several times, so that it just disappears. This is likely to happen even more often to citizens who have or do not have prescribed mailboxes. So for now, we have a very insecure delivery if it's not recommended.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52206	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52207	This law largely extends the rights and legal certainty of citizens, as well as the efficiency of deberocrasing, so to speak, at the expense of the administration, but this law also strengthens in one respect the responsibility of citizens, which is that they must, firstly, take care of their residence and residence properly recorded so that the administration knows and has a correct address, as well as take care of their mailboxes and the like. A citizen must be available if he wants to be able to exercise his rights in a modern way. It is a practice in the European administrative space, and God has already adapted most of the countries in our region. It works. If they can, so can we.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52208	Members of the 71st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The People's MPs of the DS Group submitted together to Article 71 of the amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can only express my satisfaction that at least for some of the amendments that are truly well-intentioned and constructively designed to improve the text of the law in order to improve the situation of citizens because they will apply to all of them and therefore I say that I can express the satisfaction that this amendment has been accepted. He refers to a public delivery where we asked the ten-day deadline to extend to 15 days. Over a period of ten days when it is written on the VEB presentation and the Authority’s advertising board, it is assumed that the public delivery has been made. This 15-day deadline, as proposed by the amendment, not ten days as set out in the draft law, is a compliance with the normised deadlines and from other members of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52210	Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Members of the 85th amendment were co-signed jointly by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52211	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, has tabled an amendment to Article 85(3). – the point at the end of the sentence is replaced by the wording and is added – if the procedure is terminated unfavourable for it. Since this amendment concerns Article 85 which regulates that the party may initiate administrative proceedings and, if the procedure is not favourable to it, it should bear the costs of the complete procedure. However, as we have explained, we believe that when the first-degree procedure is initiated by the party's request, it should bear the costs only in the event that the procedure is terminated unfavourable for it. However, in your explanation, you have provided that it is certainly necessary, since the party is initiating the procedure, that it should bear the costs. However, this is not the case with other solutions from other procedural laws, litigious, criminal and criminal. We believe that this is the lack of this Article 85, and that it is necessary to comply with other positive legal regulations, where the party, if it proves in this administrative procedure that he is right, has no reason to bear the costs, but the costs should be borne by the one who has sinned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52212	Thank you. To Article 90. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 90 regulates the procedure and we intervened to delete paragraph 4. The Authority shall also take into account the assumptions of the citizens and organisations and warnings of the competent authorities when launching the procedure under its official duty. This solution should be deleted for three reasons. First of all, it's unclear and undefined, what does it mean that the body takes into account the concepts and the warnings? That should be more precisely regulated in law in order to be acceptable. Secondly, this introduces legal uncertainty, as this can prejudge the outcome of the procedure and affect the independence of the decision-making authority and thirdly, the position of the 2nd member clearly states that the procedure is to be initiated under official duty where the regulation lays down or where the Authority determines or finds that, in view of the factual situation, it is necessary to protect the public interest. For these reasons, we believe that Article 90(4) should not stand, and we have suggested that it be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52214	Thank you. To Article 92. The amendment was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Here you are, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52215	I thank Mr. Chairman, Article 92 regulates the rejection of the party's demands, and we have proposed to delete point 2) in point 1. Article 1(2) provides that the Authority rejects the request of the party to initiate the procedure if it is not competent to decide on a administrative matter and cannot determine who is responsible. We believe that this should be deleted from the bill, because it is the obligation of the Authority to know which authority is responsible for handling the administrative matter, by analogous to the judicial principle of "jure novintukuria", so at least the knowledge of the administration is the knowledge of the real competence of all state authorities and bodies acting under the General Administrative Procedure Act. In other words, the law contains provisions on conflict of jurisdiction, so if the authority is wrong to refer to the party, then it can come after the procedure to resolve the conflict of jurisdiction and to apply those standards, so that the party should certainly be instructed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52216	Thank you. To Article 98. The amendment was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Thank you. To Article 103. The amendment was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Thank you. To Article 104. The amendment was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Thank you. To Article 106. The amendment was brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 108th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 108 regulates the launch of a procedure in which the previous issue is resolved. We have intervened with the amendment, by proposing to add a new position 4 after Article 3 – if the procedure in which the previous issue is resolved is raised at the request of the ignorant party, it will be acted in accordance with the position of the 1st member. We believe that the initiation of proceedings on the previous issue, when it comes to an unskilled party, should be deviated from the rules laid down in Article 2 or impose an obligation on the legally ignorant party who has initiated the administrative procedure, but it is unskilled that it is initiating proceedings before the court or other body to resolve the previous issue, and that, if it does not, it will be considered to have given up its request. The amendment is in line with the principles of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52218	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 112st amendment. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party jointly submitted the amendment to Article 118. Members of the 121st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Markovic and Jovanovic. Members of the 121st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52219	Mr. Chairman, Article 121 regulates the making of an ID. We have submitted an amendment to this article, paragraph 5, where we have proposed to add after the words "official records" to the words: "that is to say to the state and other body". To clarify, the opinions just that the legal assumption that the party is considered to have submitted the correction and, when notifying the authority in which the relevant record is found to be available to the Authority, should be supplemented by the standard proposed in the amendment. So, and the record that's in possession of a state body that doesn't keep official records. This is exactly the kind of ID that's most in legal traffic. Registrations in many administrative legal areas are not established or are only partially formed, so we believe that the effectiveness and economic performance of the procedure can be achieved through the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52220	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted an amendment adding a new member of 121a after article 121a. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to Article 122 of the amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52221	The first position of Article 122 says – an authorised official may order a party who calls for correction to submit it if the parties have it or can obtain it. Our amendment was to add words – only if the body could not obtain such a correction. The amendment was rejected by reason of the fact that the said article refers to the procurement of documents which do not necessarily have to be contained in official records which the authorities must keep under official duty. We did not in any way influence what happens to the documents that the Authority does not have, but we said, in accordance with the principles of this law declared, that the authority of that document which can be obtained under official duty, that the documents do not require the party to the proceedings. So I don't understand how this is an explanation for not accepting our amendment. We did not question what was going on with those documents that the Authority does not have, but only asked that those documents that the Authority can obtain, that it does not ask the party to bring them in, but to obtain them alone, in accordance with the principle that the Authority is doing so to obtain all possible documents needed by the parties in the procedure conducted before the Authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52222	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52223	I'd like to refer you to the position of the 8th member where the authority is required to obtain the correct order if she's on official record. I think we have a difference all the time, and I can't figure out how you understand it, that someone has something that's not in the official record, and then it's his duty to get something. It's just too vague a term. It's indeterminate, or it's in official records. What you're legally trying to say is that the organ is bound to get something else, which might be around here somewhere. But we simply consider the provisions regarding official records to be very strong. There is also protection of the rights of the party and legal remedy unless criminal liability is obtained. So, under that kind of obligation, you can't commit this to something more indeterminate, which I think we're talking about, in several members. We can talk the other day when it's not three in the morning, but in a few members we see that difference and we simply have a different interpretation, or a relationship to what it might be, an organ might have, and it's not in the official record.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52224	Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS parliamentary group to Article 139. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 140th amendment. Members of the 145th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52225	Chairman, we have submitted an amendment to article 145, which regulates the deadline for issuing a solution. Here we suggested that words be replaced by words for 15 days, and that words be added at the end of the sentence – and in an extremely complex administrative matter within 60 days. In point 3 to replace words 60 days with words 30 days and to add at the end of a sentence, and in an extremely complex administrative matter within 60 days. The bottom line is that we suggested that the deadlines for the solution be cut. We believe that in the light of the situation when the procedure is initiated under the law of the party or of the official duty and in the interest of the party, and in the administrative matter, it is appropriate and sufficient time to be within 15 days of the initiation of the procedure and in an extremely complex administrative matter for 30 days. We also believe that in a situation where the procedure is initiated at the request of the party or under official duty, and in the interests of the party and in the administrative matter, it is not decided in the direct decision-making process that is appropriate and sufficient time-limit for the issuing of the solution should be 30 days from the initiation of the procedure and in an extremely complex administrative matter 60 days. The amendments are in line with the principles set out in the draft law, and I must say that the solutions given in the bill are also in the current Law on Administrative Procedure. I know that, these deadlines that are proposed in the bill, but I believe that these deadlines have already existed as such for decades and that modernization has now taken place. When I started working at the administration for 79 years, it was typed on mechanical machines, and now we have computers, there's been a significant modernisation that can help much more speed up the issue of solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52226	Thank you. On Article 149 of the amendment, the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 161. Thank you. Members of the 171st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 171st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Members of the 176th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 210th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 212th amendment. The 214th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52227	We have submitted an amendment to Article 214 that regulates the obligation to impose special laws. This is where we proposed that the deadline be, instead of June 1, 2018, 1st of June 2017. The harmonisation of specific laws governing certain issues of administrative procedure in certain administrative areas with the provisions of this law in our opinion may and must be implemented by 1 June 2017 in order to allow the application of this law. If this is extended for another year, the full application of this law will also be extended, and this will all be to the detriment of parties and modernisation and compliance with European regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52228	It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52229	Just to draw attention that we have so far counted 130 laws that need to comply with this law, and our new systematization that takes effect tomorrow in the coordination sector, is not the sector, the coordination group, the monitoring of the system rules that are being established for the first time, will have all three people, and the inspection control law is being implemented. It's just, seeing as you're keeping an eye on things and we're all making sure that if we're looking for the impossible from the state, it's the safest way to not get better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-28-0.u52230	Thank you. Members of the 215th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. The 217th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. Since we've completed our review of the amendments. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda - THE PROGRAMME OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLACES OF THE LAW ON THE TERRITORIAL ORGANISATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA You have received an amendment submitted by the National MP Siniš Maksimović under the bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sinisa Maksimovic. The proposer and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day only on the draft law in general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday, February 29th, 2016, starting at 12:00 p.m. as Voting Day on the agenda of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. So, noon today. Thank you. I thank all the MPs. I thank the services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Deputy Prime Minister and members of its cabinet for their endurance at this session. Thank you.
