ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50005	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 116 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Momo Colaković, Vladimir Marinkovic, Olena Papuga and Sabina Dizdarevic. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50006	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted to Article 1 of this Bill's proposal is one of the eight amendments that we have submitted to the legislative projects we are discussing today in our amendment debate. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment to Article 1 is not one of the accepted amendments, but of the eight amendments submitted, the government has accepted one amendment to us, the People's MPs of the New Party. Dear Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, I do not know how much you refer to our practice here, but the practice established by us, the MPs of the New Party, is that on the occasion of our first amendment being discussed, we always announce a broader framework about the state of our amendments that we have submitted in these years and nine months, how many amendments of the total number of submitted have been accepted, we transfer it to some percentages and then we organise a serious debate. So, in this year and nine months, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic and ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have submitted a total of 1,981 amendments. According to the number of amendments submitted, we are champions of Serbian parliamentaryism, not only in this assembly, but in the history of our parliamentaryism, gentlemen. Of this number of amendments submitted, 1,981, it was accepted, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, 197 amendments. Here, to hear also distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, when these numbers translate into percentages, that means that in these years and nine months, out of the total number of amendments submitted, 9.94% of the amendments have been accepted by us, the People's MPs of the New Party. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, you come from the Faculty of Agriculture, you teach there, you teach students and students, I come from the Faculty of Political Sciences. Some of us from political science are making some analogies about these percentages. I, for example, am making this analogy – 9.94% of the amendments accepted for me means that the New Party, for these years and nine months, to hear gentlemen, has received support from citizens of 9.94%, respected gentlemen. That, of course, is for the card, for applause, for the praise, Madam President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50007	Congratulations. But please return to the amendment. Use five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50008	Right now, but I need an introduction, I need a little bit wider to approach this amendment, gentlemen, because 9.94% of the support to the New Party is our starting position in the extraordinary parliamentary elections if we go to the elections ourselves, gentlemen. It's a great result for me, a great achievement for these years and nine months. Dear gentlemen, I am sorry that the amendment to Article 1 was not accepted because it was to be accepted. I will now argue, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, why this amendment should have been accepted and since it seems to me that you have no argument for not accepting, I conclude, by one logic of the matter, that you have been sent to these analogies, to these percentages, and that you have decided not to accept this amendment, just to reduce the end and success of us, MPs of the New Party. This is what this is about, the Honorable President and the Honorable Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. We have suggested that Article 1 amending Article 3 in new point 33a) amend point 3 and that, in that sub-point, instead of the syntagma: "public policies", we put a coin: "practical policies". Why, dear gentlemen? Because this is about the translation of a word from English, which in English is a policy. We do not have an adequate translation of that word in our language. The most commonly used term – politics. But the term "politicals" has different connotations in our people, with our citizens, we have different approaches about how anyone sees politics. Someone can even go back to that ancient time, Aristotle's notion of politics, and say that politics is about the organization of people's lives in a certain territory. Those who are a little more prone to these slightly more modern times, they will bind themselves to Makiavelli, so they will say – politics is a cold technique of human governance, etc., etc. But this term -- policies, it directs us, respected gentlemen, towards a proposal, a concrete proposal on how to solve a problem in an area. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, we considered it, and I also read a little bit of Mr. Ivan Kline's texts, which deals with these things, language matters, words issues and how we use some words, and I concluded, along with Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, that it is best to translate this term – policies, as – practical policy. So it's about a practical policy proposal. Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic, gentlemen, replied to us this way – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the additional point fully conveyed the definition of environmental information from the directive and the availability of public information on the environment. Well, we agree, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, but this is about how we translate a foreign word, which now receives recognition through our legislative activity. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, I appeal now and to your academic integrity, to this part of your profession regarding working at the university that and when we translate some laws, some directives, when it is necessary to introduce them into our legislation, we do so in the appropriate and most precise way possible. We believe that the term of public policy is better than the term that would only read politics, but that, most specifically, we have consulted with people who do so to stand coins - practical policies. I'm asking you to make one more argument if you think my argument wasn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50009	Thank you. Minister, you need to sign up. Two minutes. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50010	Dear colleagues and colleagues, after the presentation of the previous speaker, what can I conclude? What's nice is what happened to her. I think it's a good thing that this amendment is not accepted, especially in terms of a purely language term, and I think the bill promoter has chosen a better variant. As for these other things we've heard, I also think it's a good thing that many proposings here haven't accepted all the amendments of a respected colleague, because they imagine what would happen in his analogy if all their amendments were accepted, so in future elections they would have 100%. That's how we'd consider the election. Unnecessarily to go to the election, to get someone 100%. I fully agree with my colleague, and I support him in going to the polls alone, but at least let his colleague take the list so he doesn't get all alone. I hope they'll have a lot of success and show they're really out of words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50011	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50012	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I suggest that the amendment be rejected for several reasons. First of all, let me say that the amendment promoter started talking about the amendment when it was five minutes and three seconds ago, you can check it out. He was talking about the former amendments, the current ones. I must point out that the amendment promoter of the total amendment, as 1,000 and something said, was present in this higher house at the vote only at 1%, 1.02%. This speaks of the seriousness of the promoter and the commitment to the amendments. Let me tell you about the amendment. It should be rejected for the reason it is unacceptable, which is unsuspecting, which is unfounded and unusable. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised, I'm really surprised that the amendment promoter, academic integrity, doesn't know or pretend to know the meaning of words - politics, meaning words - practical policy or practice, because I certainly know that his students at the Faculty of Political Sciences know that. I know he knows that, too, and I'll say why he suggested a amendment like this. If it is a policy, it will agree with me, an activity that aims to achieve a specific goal, i.e., if it is the total of all the actions taken to achieve a specific goal, and here it is known what the objective is, then it is practically excess. So, really superfluous, because if we adopted that word -- practical, it necessarily leads to practicalism, he knows what practicalism means, giving priority to practice over theory, and then it wouldn't fit this article. After all, let academic honesty look at the dictionary that stands in front of it on the bench which means the word - politics, which means - practical, which means the word - practicalism, which means the word - practical policy, so it will come to the conclusion that what I'm saying is true. He knows that very well. But the question is, and you're going to ask why he's asked this amendment. You know why, just to take seven minutes to say something, and the seven-minute amendment was only a minute and 30 seconds. I therefore propose that the amendment be rejected and the government's argument accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50013	According to the amendment, Marijan Risticevic, Aleksandar Markovic, Zoran Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: By amendment. I'm the promoter. But one. Since you're together, one promoter speaks. So you're going to end up now, and you have those five minutes, so that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50014	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, especially these grandmothers and blankets who dream well, Leonardo Da Vinci said where there's a lot of shouting there's no real knowledge. So, apart from the noise and shouting the amendment promoter delivered to us wanting to prove a size that doesn't exist, I haven't seen any other argument to accept this amendment. What encourages me to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a promise of trying to get out, going out on its own for the election of amendment promoters. As someone who has repeatedly, almost the only one who has repeatedly exposed himself here to the will of the voters I want the amendment promoter to keep his promise to go to the polls alone and thus prove to the voters his value and the percentage he has shown here. I'm afraid he's missing one zero in that percentage. I don't think we can accept this amendment, as I don't think voters will vote better than they voted for their amendment. So someone who doesn't trust themselves, someone who doesn't want to vote for the proposals he suggested himself, and we're witnessing that only eight times voted in favour of their amendment, I believe that even citizens won't give more votes to those whose amendments were about to be deleted and whose amendments were – a comma, a comma, because the elections are coming and I believe that if they keep their promise that instead of the tires, citizens will delete the amendments with chemical pens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50015	Thank you. Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50016	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that the proposed amendment be rejected, but before that, Madam President, I want to tell you something. I think you are the most tolerated president of the Assembly, and I think you will surely bring such an epithet as the most tolerated president of the National Assembly so far, because you have recently allowed the amendment promoter, as counterpart Atlagic said in the fifth minute, to begin to explain his amendment. For the first five minutes he talked about some mathematical operations, only to him known mathematical operations and some percentages of the existing ones, etc., and then in the fifth minute he tried to defend his amendment to very ignorant, I must say, a way and tried to defend something that was unprotective. I will read the explanation once again – the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is added to point 33a. Sub-paragraph 3 shall fully communicate the definition and information of the environment and the EU directive, i.e. the European Commission. I must ask the question, Madam Chairman - when did they give up the EU directive, when they gave up the European direction of Serbia, when they gave up the harmonisation of domestic legislation with European regulations? Did they stop being a pro-European party? The other day they gave a statement – we parties of pro-European orientation... Here we see that they have now given up on the EU directive and that is all I said, I must say that this morning I was met by a neighbor from Vračar, an old return lady and asked me on the street – son, how long will the amendment promoter in this case, to tell you the same story, an empty story in the National Assembly? I told her - Mother, until March 5th, March, at the latest, and after that she will no longer have a chance to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50017	Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50018	Just to remind you that today is Friday, February 19th, and that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment and that there is an amendment debate on the agenda and that the amendment of my colleague Pavicevic and my smallness to Article 1 amending Article 3 in new point 33a is currently under discussion under point 3. We propose to use the term "practical policy" instead of "public policy". It has been almost half an hour of debate on our amendment, and no one relevant has said any arguments about or against our amendment. We have received a reply from the government that something is meaningful or not meaningful, that it is the same or that it is not the same, and in the meantime we have heard various opinions from various people who do not show a tendency to understand the subject we are dealing with today. Some have shown that they know that they are looking at the clock, although not exactly, one said that in the third minute something happened, the second said in the fifth, which is not some important difference in historical and civilizational, but it does say that even the knowledge of clock viewing is not some of the stronger traits and attributes of the people who responded for the word. So I'd like the minister to tell us her argument why this proposal was rejected, why is it so evil, that we propose amendments, why is it evil for someone to propose 1,981 amendments, if I'm not wrong, in just over two years, that almost 200 are accepted, and that brings out some analogies? Whether they are true or not, it will, of course, show time, we live not only for the moment that is now happening, but we live for something that is the future, so we will see who was right, whether Serbia was better for these two and a half years that 585 amendments of the two New Party MPs were accepted, or whether it was better if none was accepted and a partial answer would give the choices that are ahead of us, and one real answer to that will give the future, which is the same in front of us. Generally, I think the issue of the coalition discussion, which I did not start, was not even started by counterpart Pavicevic, but included some people, who are obviously not the close area that is being talked about here, that this is a "dog" issue. As I recall, in the last few years or election cycles, all parties are in coalitions or almost everything, and even those who speak of themselves to be the strongest, the biggest, and that's why they collect next to them, as I would say, those other parties, that I don't use any other interpretations? I think these are questions that are not questions for the Assembly in today's debate. Of course these are questions a couple of excellent political issues, why it is, why someone hides behind the coalition, why someone wants coalitions, whether to strengthen, whether to silence their political opponents, whether to create some image of the council, but these are all the things that, as I said, we will soon get an answer. The topic of environmental protection is very important for every country and this is not just a question of the EU directive. It would be very good for this government to listen to EU directives, not selectively, but completely, but it is not happening and it is the same fact that cannot be hidden, regardless of extraordinary press conferences, media control or anything like that. The European Union as the future of this country and the protection of the environment as the future of life on a planet called Earth are important topics and they should not be fascinated by discussions about how someone interprets something they do not understand. Desires and greetings, I don't know if it still exists on these privatised radio stations, but as I recall, 20 years ago there were these "Greetings and wishes of listeners" shows, so if anyone has any desire to instruct fellow Pavicevic or me to find those radio stations. He probably enjoyed the cultural content that they broadcast once and if they exist today, so let us give it that way, and for the parliamentary procedure it is absolutely normal for the legislator to respond to amendments to MPs, not to give their opinions to people who have no idea about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50019	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50020	Thank you. The amendment has been rejected for several reasons, first of all, which we believe that our solution that we have proposed in the bill is in line not only with EU directives, but also with practical needs, but also with the opinions of our respective institutions and competent ministries. On this bill, we have, among other things, been given agreement from the Commissioner for Information of public importance. The law is in line with the law on the availability of information of public importance. The agreement was also obtained by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, from the Public Policy Secretariat. Therefore, this definition has passed one test, i.e. it has been examined by several relevant and competent institutions. In doing so, I must say, this is about a change that is more technical, whether public or practical. These institutions, which are more professional than we are in Serbia, say this is a solution that we have proposed a better solution. In doing so, we do not deal with these laws of a technical nature, we deal with these laws in a serious way, so questions about the protection of the environment, about the health of citizens, about the practical problems that we want to solve or help solve, not just because of our citizens today, but mainly because of our children and the generations that will come behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50021	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50022	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, when someone tells their colleagues - there some people who have no idea have dared comment on the amendments, this one is too sure of his knowledge acquired by a higher extraordinary, higher in vain, or whatever those schools are called. The size of a man is that he should value someone else's value. Anyone who doesn't appreciate someone else's value can't even have one. That rule goes from a weekend. I dared comment on the amendments, and I never disputed the right of other colleagues, no matter what lines they came from, to keep the same right to themselves. Of the amendment's proposings, several times in this Assembly, except for the insult, of course, came to me – behold, I would not have the right to comment on the amendments, the style – well, Marijan Rističević comments on the amendments to that and that law. I don't know why my rights are less than their rights, or why would the rights of the amendment be less than mine or greater than mine? I think democracy loves equality and a political theorist who sits on the right side of this great moral gromada should certainly know and pass on all his political theory to his colleague. We didn't talk here about the wishes in the explanation of the amendment, but here someone else wanted some percentage when they, as he said, went to the election. I did not force him to go to the elections alone, he said – if we go out alone, we will win so much and so much, that I want them to try and try to reach that percentage with voters, but I fear that it will not be possible for a simple reason because if someone proposes 1,900 and some amendments, and some are accepted by the government's will, and not by votes, especially by their votes, so someone proposes an amendment that does not come to the vote, he does not only doubt his amendment, if he wrote it, he doubts his worth. One who doubts his worth is hardly able to prove to the voters that he really has that value and that he deserves to sit in this parliament again, especially if he goes to the polls alone. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen, the value of one person counts by taking away bad habits from his good habits. If they did that to my fellow farmer, that math, I believe he would be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50023	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50024	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I would have the right to reply to each of the MPs who spoke here on behalf of the SNS and Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic, but, behold, I will not appear by every speech of the MPs, but, respecting both our guests and our guests, I will use only this single replica. He's here, for example. As a matter of fact, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic said that all consent was provided to the contents of this bill. That's okay, but we have one concrete amendment here. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, this concrete amendment proposal concerns concrete coins that we could most precisely transpose something that is in one EU directive. Now the question is for us here – are we going to make our laws the most accurate, which, I think, would be appropriate, or are we going to have such an approach to leave some possibilities for inaccuracies? I have always used these years and nine months to make all our legislative projects the most accurate possible. And, here, I suggest you consult a man about this coin, for example. who deals most with these issues. I mentioned it, Mr. Klein. Mr. Shabic is not dealing with this issue right now. He gave you an example. an opinion on the law as a whole, but about this particular thing there are people who are specifically dealing with this issue. The second thing is said here – imagine that now the situation is that all the amendments of Mr Pavicevic have been adopted, so 100 per cent say they will be in the elections. Well, gentlemen, I'm a real man, the real power of the New Party today is 10% in the extraordinary parliamentary elections, and I would never be directed towards being part of a team that wants to have a hundred percent support. It would then be a hint of some terrible totalitarianism, which I would never give any legitimacy, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50025	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50026	This is the third meeting in which I am a People's MP. I remember one parliamentary group in the ninth session between 2012 and 2014, which was the champion of parliamentaryism at the time, the parliamentary group that submitted the most amendments to the assembly procedure, and it seems to me that the most of these amendments were accepted, which is the DSS parliamentary group. Then came the elections and then came what was the greatest sanctity, which is the opinion of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and such a policy remained below the censorship. So, those who are now boasting about these strong percentages, first go out on their own or whatever the election is, so let them check out what the Serbian citizens think about it. On the other hand, Madam President, there are, I think, in some electronic media that are still called – greetings, wishes and congratulations. I think we'll say goodbye in a few days here when this House is disbanded. As for wishes, I think that these wishes were best said by Mr Djukanovic, a respected colleague Vladimir Djukanovic, several days ago on social networks. It seems to me that around these wishes he showed and mentioned Zabel. As for congratulations, at this point we will all congratulate the competent state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50027	The People's Messenger Gordana Komic has the word, so Zoran Antić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50028	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the DS parliamentary group. The amendment was an excellent reason to start talking in the Assembly as well, why "policy", "policy paper" and "policy non-paper" have no translation in Serbia. Because they don't exist. It does not matter whether you call practical policies or public policies, this process does not exist. What is disappointing and a bit sad is that even in this congregation, there is no understanding of what “policy” is, where the word is created, since there is no process for these laws, for example. I meant a lot more than what the Ministry did, and I want to comment because the Ministry did something about the policy, the "political paper" defined in the EU. It's a good step forward, and I want to welcome it and encourage other ministries to look up to the Ministry of Environmental Protection when it comes to this process. "political" means dialogue, meaning the entire horizontal and vertical space in which the idea of what should be changed in some policy, who is required to be heard, to be called, what is the procedure, because the procedure is a culture, the way in which this idea goes, how it is done in time and how and who is obliged to inform the public about everything. That's not what's going on with us. Instead, you have urgent procedures, instead you have why this law was said, and who said we have no idea. That is why we can find few people here who will know each other to exchange assessments of what must happen in Serbia in 2020. If there was any "policy paper" and "policy non-paper", I must say, it was in the field of environmental protection. I would like this amendment, which was rightly submitted by MPs Vladimir Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic, to be a reason to talk about it – why do we not have an adequate translation for the words "political paper" and "policy non-paper"? Chapter 35 began with something called "policy non-paper". The normalisation of Pristina and Belgrade began with a "policy non-paper" that turned into a "political paper", but we do not know much about it here. Why is it a problem to talk about how we translate the word "policy" in 2016 with mockery? Because we don't have time to make fun of those words anymore. Because all people working at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which I hope will be formed or if it remains agriculture, which I was against and I will remain against forever, will have 2017 and 2018 in very large and important jobs that will leave a profound impact on the environment in Serbia and decades ahead. It is therefore important that we understand why we do not have translation for "policy", "policy paper" and "policy non-paper". Because we don't have a dialogue. It is only up to us to decide to mock different ideas about the translation of those words, to accept that it is anyway, or to talk about how to look like a process that would get a word in our language, which means what the policy dialogue in the field of environmental protection in the EU means. Only that it is the consequence of the amendments that have been tabled by colleagues would be the contribution and work of the Assembly and the dialogue, which I hope will be at that time, because it must be. There, fortunately or sadly, as anyone looks, we no longer ask whether we want a dialogue or not. That thing's solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50029	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, somehow we've gone too far, it seems to me, broadly, and it's true that these first amendments usually go so little and they rot, as our people would say, but I would return to the amendment itself. I think, given the content of the amendment, we've spent too much time around it somehow. I think there are much more quality and essential amendments here, and simply this amendment doesn't deserve as much time as I said, as we have spent, because it's about the fact that information on the environment of this bill being available to all citizens, to the non-governmental sector, to set up a national register, and that in every way, it's trying to give the public insight into everything that happens to the environment. Well, therefore, this point 3 mentions strategies, legislation, plans, programmes, so it goes essentially to the smallest details and allows the public to enter, even of course, public policies. What is the biggest problem with this amendment is the fact that it abolishes public policy. Because if we accept the amendment, public policy is kind of abolished, and public policies in all areas of life and in all the legal projects that we have had are quite often well formulated. Well, therefore, introducing at this point some term that actually means controlling everything that is happening in the environment is unnecessary, because I am this institute that is now being imported through public authorities that are being fully defined and through this control, allows us to better control and compare what is declared and what is being applied in practice. I think it's perfectly normal for this term that we've had so far and in future we're using, not to go now to some language excursions that can possibly create some confusion or problems in application or in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50031	Thank you. Members of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS and Green Serbia submitted together to the 4th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50032	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 which amends Article 16 and Article 16 talks about the rehabilitation and remediation of the demoted environment. You have rejected our amendments to the amendments where we have asked that the projects of rehabilitation and remediation, that the Ministry gives consent to these projects relating to mining relations and we have asked for a clear limit on the time limit until they have to give consent to the project and closer, this act that you need to file within eight days of the date of entry into force, you as the Ministry. You refused with an explanation that you had better solutions. I have remained in your debt from the principle debate, when we were talking about this particular problem, means, returning to the original state to be understood by the citizens, by the environment by the person who put the environment at risk, that one law making and harmonizing with EU laws is necessary. Our objections to this law we have shown in principle debate and through the amendments we have submitted, but what is the essence, it is not doing anything to improve the environment. It is a reality and we can compete here, but citizens know it in their environment whether the environment is cleaner, more orderly, more preserved than it was in 2012 when you took responsibility and for the environment by ruling in the Republic of Serbia, at all levels, or worse. I'm the one who mentioned the bathroom as a national park. Everywhere, there's a problem with wastewater in all cities, but the Kopalnik is a national park and he can't have it. Not that you didn't fix it, not that you didn't keep it in the state it was in in 2012, it's worse now. And you said there was a wastewater factory. Dear Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, the waste water factory is one of the elements of municipal equipment. Communal equipment involves water, sewerage network, water network, power grid, road infrastructure, that's municipal equipment, and you say – we have a waste water factory. Well, as you're going to be in that wastewater factory carrying waste from the weekend settlement, I said, which has over 2,500 houses and 1,000 apartments. A bucket? Well, you don't have plans for a sewer network. That's what we're talking about, that's what it was supposed to be since 2012. You promised people it would be settled and it wasn't solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50033	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50034	Thank you. In short, we have rejected this amendment for the reason why you suggest that instead of "and" the ally be placed "except". We included this ally "except" for the reason that projects to remediate and remediate mining facilities, consent to it as a competent ministry, which is the Ministry of Energy and Mining. So these issues are regulated by another law and they are within the jurisdiction of the other ministry. In the debate in principle, I was talking about what the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection did in the field of environmental protection, and here I am going to do it again. Ten laws only from this segment. No agricultural law, no agriculture laws, 22. And, not just the law, we've finished a series of projects, a series of projects to solve environmental problems we've started. These projects are big, big, infrastructure projects, and among other things this project you're talking about. So, back in Raška, we're going through this wastewater treatment facility to solve many of the problems of citizens, Raška and Kopalnik, the national park and those of other citizens who come there to rest. But you know very well, in order to solve this problem, we must have some in front of the store. These advances also include technical documentation and a certain amount of time, field recording. You know it's a very complicated, complex procedure to provide funds. We did all of this and provided funds and opened a tender for both performances and interested 40 companies to apply for the tender. Please, it should be kept in mind when you're giving us criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50035	The word is Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50036	Yes, thank you. Again, what you say, Madam Minister, is that the Kopalnik has been resolved, let's talk about it, and it's a very important topic because it's a national park and what a national park where fecals are poured directly into the mountain river, it's a disaster. And it's not a national park. I told you that word is called Stinky, you can imagine why it's called Stinky. You said the same thing in 2012 and 2014, that's what I'm talking about and you're talking about right now. Are your projects done for that? No, they're not. Well, they're not done, 'cause there would be something going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50037	Ambassador, you know you have to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50038	They're not nearly Madam Chairman, they're not, because there are three, four versions, but it's not the point that we're outsmarting ourselves here, it's the problem that needs to be solved. For four years this congregation majority and the government had, you could have made God, and you left, given authority to Raska. Raska doesn't have the financial capacity to handle it. He can't. A place that has 4,500 inhabitants cannot solve the utility of the mountain. No way, that's what the government has to do. You haven't moved your finger in four years now. You're going on a campaign and you promise. Come on, promise me again, but do it. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50039	Replica, go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50040	This government was formed 22 months ago and you're talking about four years and you're talking about some projects that could have been completed in two or four years. The question is, what did they do four years ago? What they left us and what we could really do. We didn't come here today to politics. We came here today with concrete laws and are ready to defend documentedly what we've done, but of course with those who want to respect reality and the facts, and those who want to criticize us here, not seeing part of their responsibility or part of their guilt, we really have nothing to talk to them about. I keep telling you how many projects we've started, how much we've finished being left unsolved. And, was it really possible to do more. Please, as Government, we've started working on the disposal of dangerous industrial waste. No one's ever thought of doing that before. We've managed to complete large projects, the type of Big Back Channel in Vrbas, five years standing project not finished. A great danger to the environment, to the citizens of the area, and to all of this by the European Commission. We can't get new funds to launch other projects. We completed the project in Leskovac to clean up waste water, provided funds for the dump in Subotica. We just did a lot of things, practically not to list everything now, we talked about it in a debate in principle. Please, someone remarked, said – there is no dialogue. Well, there's no dialogue when someone else doesn't want that dialogue, and we're always offering an opportunity for dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50041	Time. Thank you. We'll go back to the amendments. So, I will no longer be as the MPs commended me, completely tolerated, tolerated in the context of the amendment. Otherwise, we're going to an election campaign. Ljiljana Malusic, about the amendment, right? About the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50042	Thank you. I'd really like to talk about the amendment, so we don't stick around and spread. Whoever read the law, we really got over 500, thousands of pages here, but the law needs to be read. I'm the first time in my life and I've read the law. If there is something other than the word "unless", it is replaced by "i", "i" is an ally, and "other than" means it does not apply. Whoever read the law knows that rehabilitation and remediation do not apply does not fall under the Law on the Protection of the Environment. It's the second law. So you have to read the laws. It's the Energy Act and the Mining Act. Please, we've made a mistake, we've confused the terminology by one. Two, in order for the law to be right, here's an addition to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, means for a sublegal act, so please take at least a year. What do you mean, eight days from now, we bring in a sublegal act? It's got everything in it. We open Chapter 27, we deal with transit negotiations because we need 11 billion euros at the start. How do we plan to determine the sublaw in eight days? That's impossible. This should be refused. It's simple, you have to read the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50043	He can do it by amendment. Will you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50044	Come on, I'll be quick. So it would be normal for the law to come to the Assembly with sublaws. That would be normal. Since we got the law without a sublegal act, as I hear from the congregation's majority, it takes a year. So it's going to take a year to apply and start applying this law. Great. Great. Now, that shows the ability to handle, make decisions and enforce laws. It's one thing to bring paper, but the other is to apply it in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50045	Ljiljana Malušić, then Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50046	Very short. We use it very easily. Well, you've been in power for 12 years, since you haven't passed a sublegal act, here's my law, so we have an addition to the law with all possible valid elements that are excellent. There was a debate in many cities, and everyone agreed, and the government made a realistic and normal decision. Sublaws must be done. If the chapter opens up both the most difficult and the most complex and we do transit negotiations, of course we're going to work taxically, we're going to list how and on what period of time the act is determined. That's what you should know. I'm still a rookie here, and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50047	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50048	In addition to the routine note that there is a resolution on the legislative activity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia voted unanimously by all MEPs in 2013, which obliges the government to submit, together with the draft law, a sublegal act or to explain why it is not able to do so. I'm curious about the rejection or acceptance of this amendment, the interpretation we just heard in the debate, which sounded like the contaminant was giving consent to the remediation and the rest. That wouldn't be possible. Unfortunately, that's what the explanation looks like. So, in an explanation for getting this amendment, I don't care if you refuse or accept it, however, it is said that it is not accepted because the rehabilitation and remediation of mining facilities are regulated by regulations in the field of mining and are not subject to this law. I can understand that you're giving as an explanation that someone is asking to be the subject of this law. But all we're asking here is for detail who has to participate in the obligations of rehabilitation and remediation. The contaminant will never do that. If I misunderstood the tone of discussion and the ministers and colleagues okay, but if I didn't, we'd have a problem because you'd be looking for someone who polluted that you could do a recovery to give you consent to it. That's not even in the Mining Act. That's where he writes about his obligations. Whether or not you're going to take care of it, and that's what's left to interpret, but if it's clear in sublaws, then we don't have to waste our time answering. However, the discussion gave birth to this question, I find it very obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50049	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, the ZZS and the ZS together submitted the 6th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50050	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have proposed that the amendment to Article 6 relating to Article 23 be deleted. And Article 3 is originally referred to as the legal person or entrepreneur who has a wastewater treatment facility or is required to build them which releases its waste water into the reicient or public sewerage, except for the plants subject to the issue of an integrated permit, it is necessary to adopt an action plan for the gradual achievement of the emission limit values of polluting substances in water, etc. You're ours, we're asking you to delete it. You have rejected our amendment with an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that all solutions are contained in Article 6 as you say, the bill, which refers to wastewater treatment in accordance with obligations, compliance with the limit values of water pollution emissions, as well as the obligations contained in sublegal acts in this area and are given in order to implement the rules more effectively. On the other hand, the provisions relating to mud are the basis for further improvement in this area. We think, however, that you should delete this attitude from the proposal, because we think our solution is better.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50051	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50052	Here, here's an example for a policy that's inconclusive. In the process of creating policies of protocol and procedures in the field of environmental protection, we have an obligation for mud to plant wastewater treatment. So it's from politics, but nobody knew anything about it in Serbia. They knew the people who participated and brought that part into the Ministry. Now you have to make it quite logical then in changes and additions the promoter says – If we have a policy paper obligation to have mud from the wastewater treatment plant, then we have to put it into the law. What's the problem, and why do I have logic and colleagues looking for an erasure? Because we don't have a wastewater treatment facility. It's a problem and it's a policy, you see, that we all know it, that it's a policy that we can't translate into our language, that at the same time I'm not against, that I said it and on the board, that we have included how much the wastewater treatment plant that we're doing because we need to have it, but we're infinitely sorry that there's no process that we would call policy, that we know that how many plants there are in general to clean up waste water in Serbia, how much it costs. That these plants work, who's gonna pay for it? Why aren't they here? What it means for cities and municipalities where it's planned to be, once we try to talk about the best possible regulations in the law, then I'd like the debate to have that tone. There is no debate on the protection of the environment in which someone will win until we get rid of these delusions and unserious issues. So far, we'll have trouble with the fact that too few of us here know how many wastewater treatment plants there are and where they are. What is the ministry's effort to include project making to find all the money together, so I said we needed that finance minister here, to ask us how much we need, so that we could apply the provision of mud and the way we treat ourselves according to the quality of the water we clean up and where the water is being thrown out as part of the environment that was purified from the water treatment plant.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50053	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50054	Thank you. We did not accept this amendment for the reason why this amendment requires erasing something that we wanted to put into one roof law when it comes to protecting the environment. The questions concerning the mud are clearly defined by this law and clearly defined. So we define mud from technological processes and mud from municipal waste, or municipal action. Therefore, we thus create conditions to prepare and an adequate sublaw. When it comes to mud from technological processes, the sublegal act will be prepared within the environmental protection sector, and when it comes to this other type of mud, the mud from municipal waste water, the mud will be treated by the Water Act, which is also prepared and which will also come very quickly here to the Assembly. What is important to point out is that this is how we implement the directives, that is, installing directives and preparing for new plants and improving the environmental protection sector. And if there were opportunities and there were opportunities for dialogue, our MPs from the opposition ranks can, if they want to be honest, confirm, because they participated in numerous round tables and public debates, public hearings, constant cities and municipalities conferences. So there was a lot of these opportunities in the Chamber of Commerce to say, to give an opinion and to hear our arguments, that is, our reasons for going to certain changes. It's simply an incomprehensible and unexpected discussion today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50055	Time. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50056	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted for the reasons that follow it. I will quote only one sentence in the explanation, which says – it is unclear whether it is a form and a regulation that has been adopted in accordance with the Water Act or whether the same regulation will be adopted under this law. I believe that this argument is not in line with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language, and we would certainly not be forgiven for such a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50057	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50058	I'd just like to ask my colleagues to read this point of view. He says that local self-government, let me convince this, is obliged to adopt an action plan for the gradual achievement of the emission limit values of polluting matter in water, to set deadlines for their gradual achievement, and to act according to the Action Plan, etc. I don't know, is there an MP here from Blaz? Do you know how they are released from all cities, including Blatz, from wastewater? What will Blaze bring on this, when this law comes into force and when he commits it? Do you know where that word is going where the wastewater is released? He's going to Lake Cells. Do you know what Lake Cell is? Accumulations for water supply of surrounding cities. How are they going to make, come on, obey this law and how are they going to apply it? What kind of action plan do they have when they don't have a wastewater factory? How? They'll predict, and then they'll say, when conditions are obtained, when we build a wastewater factory, then we'll have an action plan to bring the pollution level together gradually, to bring it to zero. All right, if you think that's the way it's supposed to be, I'm just gonna watch you put it into practice, how are cities that don't have a wastewater factory, and they don't, apply this and make an action plan, compared to what?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50059	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50060	I'm surprised we did some time back in the '50s, first we built a car factory, and then after 30 years, we started making roads. So you don't let the law do anything before you apply that law. Counting that some places have these water-processing facilities, those that do not, they will probably, when they reach that level and buy water-cleaning factories, apply this law. So you don't let it happen before something is done, that the law is regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50061	Thank you. Members of the LSV parliamentary group submitted together to Article 14 of the amendment. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50062	The President-in-Office, respected colleagues, this amendment refers to the information system. In fact, Article 74 of the existing law defines that the information system actually provides for the formation, classification, processing and maintenance, presentation, distribution of numerical, descriptive and spatial databases, in other words, of the state of the environment data is collected in one place or in this information system. We have proposed the addition of this member, that except for the Environmental Protection Agency, the Republic Agency that collects data, to add an attitude in which it is said – the Autonomous Region forms and maintains its information system as an integral part of the information system of the Republic of Serbia, which is quite logical for us, since it is that the Regional Secretariat for Urbanism and Construction and Environmental Protection has received as a donation several years ago from the EU complete equipment, is trained when together with personnel from the Republic Agency. Otherwise, it collects data from Vojvodina territory and from automatic cells, it has a network of automatic air quality measurement stations and all other environmental data. It was quite logical and acceptable to us, especially since this does not require any additional funding, because I see that everyone is allergic to it if a kind of funding is mentioned, we think it is necessary to establish that system and that the province develops and maintains, because it is actually an existing state. Tomorrow someone else might come along and say, "We don't need that equipment, we don't need people, we don't need the information system when we have the Republic Agency." I see no reason to insist so much and, if I may say so, to ignore the existence of the province's level and the province's obligations, especially considering Article 5 of the Law, which says that the province is responsible for any action, or action in the protection of the environment and has certain delegated powers. As a result, we do not consider this amendment to be rejected, and especially because you wrote in your explanation that there is an information system in the republic and that this turns out to be unnecessary for the province. The goal of all of this is to be one functional system, to collect data. Besides, we are signatories of the Archus Convention, under which citizens have the right to information on the state of the environment, have the right to influence all activities in the environment and have the right to exercise their legal rights, or to protect themselves if someone in the neighborhood has something happened and has some pollution, he has the right to get information based on that information to sue. I don't know if some kind of process has ever been maintained here, but simply, if we want to, and the whole law is to agree with the regulations, I don't see any reason why the province doesn't take care of its information system, especially since we said in the article that it is part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50063	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50064	I'll just have a quick answer. The environmental protection agency is responsible for the database, i.e. for information on the state of the environment for many years in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This does not mean that these are ignored by the provinces, to ignore the competent circuit institutions, the Regional Secretariat, etc., because we all work together, not looking at the local presence, or local position. Therefore, all data from the province are poured into the single national agency, the Environmental Protection Agency, which is in accordance with the law responsible for timely, accurate and accessible information to all citizens, and I think of the citizens of the province of Vojvodina and the citizens of central Serbia. So we're not making any difference here. Simply, one national operator, to call it that, we have defined, but also from previous years, as a body responsible for the accuracy, timing and availability of information on the state of the environment in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. I would also like to point out that we do have an extraordinary co-operation with the relevant circuit institutions in this area, very often we are at joint conferences, joint meetings. We do not make in the practical sense of this division that is kind of desired in the congregation procedure, by adopting certain laws. Point out. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50065	The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50066	I just want to point out that no one argues that there is a central system. If the maintenance of automatic air stations in the province's territory is financed from the region's resources, then I guess it's a logical question -- why do you collect data on all this, why is there a difference, then why isn't everything being financed from the single budget? Tomorrow someone will come to mind in this rationalization of employees... I also said in the principle debate that it would be a great shame if some of the personnel who are trained were to be abolished, because of the need for rationalization, because there is no emphasis on such a system and development anywhere in the law. He doesn't mind here, on the contrary, he's in favor here. One more thing. Let me ask you a question - how many automatic cells, for me, is high-quality air in Serbia's territory, except for Vojvodina, not working at this time, and because it has not been invested in their functioning and maintenance? I have information, say, that over 50% of the stations are out of service, and you have, say, in Budapest and some other cities of the panorama next to the automatic stations where citizens can read at any time how much pollution there is, not looking in the system, etc. We're going to make sure the citizens are informed on time. Our amendment is precisely in order to achieve efficiency, no politicizing, but this goes beyond any unnecessary measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50067	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50068	Dear Presidents, a respected minister, colleagues and colleagues, the SPO will support these amendments and amendments to the law in the voting day. I'll talk about the amendment to Article 14. The harmonisation of our rules with EU rules, especially when it comes to environmental protection, is more than necessary. Therefore, the SPO Parliament Club thinks that the availability of information that is relevant to the application of this law is more important than the division of business. The information system is formed in line with principles that apply in the EU. Data from the Environment Agency are used to produce the National Annual Report on the State of the Environment in Serbia, and are exchanged at European level via the European Environment Agency. Let me remind you, we are an associated member of the European Environment Agency. Therefore, the exchange of data, which would specifically refer to the AP Vojvodina, would be wrong, especially since data from the province level are available to the Environmental Protection Agency, and to repeat, data is available to all citizens of Serbia. So law enforcement, for example, should be an assignment. Of course, administrative improvements could affect the improvement of the conditions for strict application of the law, but we in the SPO do not see that this amendment achieves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50069	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50070	Dear President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of Parliament, I must say immediately that this amendment should not be accepted, and I can say one thing. A folk says, "Who about what, grandmother of the wrinkles?" Why did I say that? Whenever an amendment is proposed from the LSV, it takes every opportunity to transfer jurisdiction to Vojvodina in order to do in some way what is in their mind. What does the legislator say? The public authority shall, in accordance with the law at least once a year or, where necessary, upon request of the Ministry, update the data in the national...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50071	Please don't throw it away. You're guests here at the meeting.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50072	... Adviser says a new stance is added after item 5 – Autonomous province forms and maintains its information system, as an integral part of the information system of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it is all stated that any of some jurisdiction would be translated into the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. That is why this amendment should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50073	The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50074	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50075	Thank you. The amendment was accepted by the minister. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50076	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to convince our guest, Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that it is necessary to accept our amendment to Article 19. Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, we have noticed that in one place in article 19 one is missing. We have submitted the amendment, gentlemen, which we propose to place left out and explained - we believe that the amendment is proposed by the amendment in accordance with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, replied that she could not accept the amendment because the amendment was proposed essentially the same as the provision in the bill, which was not, gentlemen. Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that I now try to argue that it is not. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that somewhere in some piece of paper, we don't work with congratulations, and that the second paper says no, we do it with honor. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, when there is no comma, then that means that someone is sending a message - we are not doing it honestly. When it gets stuck after no, then someone says no, no, no, no, we should do it honestly. Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, that is a fundamental change. Honorable gentlemen, precision in language, using the signs of interpretation is one of the traits of rule of law. Dear gentlemen, if Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic does not accept this argument and does not accept this amendment, then I appeal to the conscience of every MP here from all parliamentary parties to vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50077	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'd like to ask you a little more quietly, you're yelling a lot. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mr Milisavljevic told me to speak in an appropriate tone. I didn't notice that Mr. Milisavljevic told you anything. Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50078	Thank you. The amendment was not accepted for reasons of technical nature. Whether or not I need a comma, it will determine the competent people, the competent institutions that are otherwise designed to verify legal technical regularity, but I want to take advantage of this possibility, since my options are less now, to say once again that we have really been responsible for solving issues and problems in the environment and to answer the questions of some previous MPs whether we control the quality of the air, of course we control it. I would like to remind you that we have concluded air quality control contracts with the Bor Institute of Mining and Metalurgy and 17 public health institutions from Belgrade, Čačka, Kruševac, Šapca, Zaječar etc. So we conduct monitoring and air and conduct monitoring water. We have information about this that's being published on the Environment Protection Agency website, and this law is now introducing a meta-registration. He wants to talk to our citizens, we don't want to hide from them, because we're not guilty of everything we inherited, neither are our citizens, but we all need to know together what our environment is like and that we're all working together to improve it. You know very well that it was in earlier years when environmental protection issues were dealt with by the ministries that were the only ones in charge. And there was this famous fund that was being talked about, that there were a lot of resources and problems not that they weren't solved, they were just piled up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50079	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo have submitted a joint amendment proposing that Article 20a be added after Article 20a. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50080	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have tabled an amendment to Article 21 which we propose a concrete amendment to one's position. We've got an explanation why it's not possible to accept this amendment. This is a good explanation for me, but I have heard from a citizen who is known on Twitter as "the truth of Batocina", a gentleman named Slavisa Stojanovic. He asked me to ask you a question about this amendment, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here's a question. This is what the gentleman asked me to do. He says: Why do children and adults forced to use wells not have control of water regularity? The gentleman says that there are wastewaters that go to these wells, that there's no way to control the water from these wells, that there are children who also serve that water in some schools, that they use that water, and I repeat again. Why are children and adults forced to use wells without control of water regularity? He asked me to say the following, so if you can answer, this is a nice opportunity today. It says – a large number of people are fed out of the well without control, and the sanitary inspection does not control individual water wells. Now I ask the question, if we imagine that there are a large number of people who use this water, which we don't control, is something prepared here to change that situation? Can we let that happen, for example? In some villages, children use this water without control of the correctness of that water? I considered it appropriate for Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic to add this question in the same way as you felt you were right about the previous amendment, a little further to answer some of the questions raised by some other MPs. I think this question is relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50081	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50082	First of all, I'd like to answer that the sanitary inspection is not in the jurisdiction of our ministry. We have in our jurisdiction a large number of inspections and a large diapazon of areas that we cover and to which we have to answer questions, problems and solutions. You're saying you have a question from some citizen whether one of us controls the correctness of the water from the well given to the locals to drink it. First of all, we must invite our citizens to be with us good associates and communicate with us. Citizens must communicate with their authorities in local self-government, with public health services. Not always can those who, although public health institutions are not in our jurisdiction, but we can't always know what the citizen needs, but they do, even though they address us as the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, we'll know that they're being referred to by the institutions that can give them answers to specific questions. With this amendment, you suggest that we delete a member relating to the financing of the environment. We just don't know what any of us want or what they want anymore. Many times before when I was in this assembly and when I defended the laws of this part, from the environment, from the area of nature protection, etc., the question of funding the Green Fund was raised. We understand that and it's normal, we want to have more resources and to launch more projects, especially these expensive projects that really ask for both time and money. Now all of a sudden you're asking to delete it. That's about what's ours. Now I don't want it any way I want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50083	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50084	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So Article 21 refers to the original member of the 89th Law and talks about funding environmental protection, that it is carried out by applying the principle of pay, the polluter pays. We have added that there is also the principle of paying compensation for recycling waste, compulsory insurance of coverage of third parties, subsidized responsibilities, incentive measures, protection of rights against courts and the public access information. In the next position, we intervened, I will read the position – The funds for financing environmental protection in the Republic of Serbia are provided from the funds, we added – compensation based on the application of the user principle and the pay polluter and the waste recycling fees. We have also acted in the part where you say that funds from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget and local self-government units are being raised. This is what we have proposed to delete and to stand by the words – the Environmental Protection Fund. In point 4, we added that the financing of infrastructure projects is based on a single list of priority projects in line with the methodology for selecting and prioritising infrastructure projects. We have added the words - according to the criteria established by the Government. You're the one who turned down this proposal. What was the basic idea, especially when determining the source of funding for all these projects to be done, in one part you say that the funds are formed by the polluter and the user paying, and on the other hand you're talking about that these are budget funds. It is not clear to us whether these funds are now being paid directly into the budget, and then, by the financial plan of the current year, you predict how much funds will be recovered and financed by these projects that need to be financed from these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50085	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the amendment promoter predicted that the title above article 89. – environmental funding means and that this article is about funding, so it is perfectly normal that the draft law put the principles relating to funding in the first place. The amendment promoter also gave some general principles relating to the environment and could possibly be incorporated into some other members of the law and otherwise intervened. When it comes to financial principles relating to funding, I think the proposal is very good. Besides, there's one problem, it's in the part of the proposal where we have financial instruments. Refunds are mentioned, insurance is mentioned, although financial instruments are much more numerous. Simple financial instruments are mostly and are almost as a rule not in the text of the law, they go through sublegal acts. Therefore, there is no need to list financial instruments in the very text of the law, when it comes to funding the environment, it will be subsequently elaborated, so I think this is a key argument as to why the ministry acted well and rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50087	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50088	In the context of this amendment, let me say that we have proposed a solution that is in line with the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia, that your amendment is not precise enough, that it is incompatible with other laws and that that is why the amendment is unacceptable to us. What I still want to say is that, in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Serbia, projects will be funded, and projects proposed by the Government, of course, with our agreement and with our participation, we establish a list of priority projects and these priority projects will also be funded. Again, I want to point out that these projects take time and time, and it also takes the resources to prepare the necessary technical documentation. A few days ago, I'm fresh, and that's why I want to tell you that I attended the handover of technical documentation for an important project in the Kingdom, for wastewater treatment plant and for the expansion of the wastewater canal system, that only the preparation of these technical documentation cost more than one billion, over one million and 200 million euros, and that several different institutions participated in the preparation of this dossier. There is an EU delegation, which is the EU project, and there are our ministry experts, there is the Office for European Integration and all this took time and needed money. Why am I saying this? Because the technical documentation prepared just like this can be valid for European funds, which will now additionally provide funds to implement the project practically.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50089	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50090	I mean, we really do work organised, systemically and very professionally and responsibly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50091	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go, Mr. Radojevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50092	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, of course I am against accepting this amendment, because this amendment looks like a list of good wishes that should be charged by someone to make use of the money for some purposes that I must admit can be noble, but to put ourselves in a position of those who pay those fees and compensations from business entities to those who, I say, are natural persons. Now you have a burden that economic operators, in particular private, cannot withstand when it comes to all the taxes that have been inherited from the former regimes, so when you see that you have an addition to the list of good wishes, what else needs to be financed from a fund, we still have to ask ourselves who fills those funds, can they fill those funds and do we do something good or not? Here in one place you say – compensation based on application of the principle, user and polluter pays, fees based on recycling of waste. You can think of these fees as much as you want. If someone's recycling waste in this country, and we have a huge number, not to talk about daily waste and wild dumps that have been in places where they are for years, more of those people who are dealing with recycling need to make some kind of coercion, and then we're not gonna get anywhere. That's why I think this list of good wishes has to stay for another chance because we're too burdened anyway, especially by economic operators and citizens, with a variety of taxes, and I think it's easy to start taking them off, and when economic operators strengthen and build some of their own capital, they're going to take care of their own environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50093	Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 22nd amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50094	This member is similar to Article 21. This is about the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia and since I haven't had time, I will now comment on the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia. So the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia is formed instead of the Environment Fund. What is the fundamental difference between these two funds? My colleagues didn't understand what I was talking about. They should have listened a little more carefully. The essence is further centralisation in the Republic of Serbia. Here you have that the Government sets priorities based on the funds paid under the law – the user pays, the polluter pays and other fees. In the previous article, we just figured out what should be covered. I don't know what's the problem with more specific regulation of a law? Why put on fog and unspeakable words and sentences? It should be maximum in the law to be precise, if we are already pursuing a law that will be concrete and applicable. The point is that the government wants to decide on priorities. We're about to remain an independent environmental fund. You say, "We've been misusing funds." Punish the people who did it. It wasn't done properly, so put on professional people, but the point is that the Fund is the one who decides and the people who are in the Fund. This is how you have money that goes into the budget and becomes budget money. We're against it. It's centralization. It's two concepts and two policies. We think it's better to be an independent body on which the normal government will give consent, not to set priorities and make a list of priorities. That's the essence of what we wanted to do with the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50095	The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50096	As far as I can see, you're asking to delete article 22. That means wipe out the Green Fund. Please, that's what it says here. Now, what did you think or what else you did, I really don't know, but I understood the point. You'd like us to form the fund again like we used to be. We said that we formed a fund in accordance with other RS laws, in accordance with the Budget System Act, and we think it's a good model. Personally, I think it's a great model. Why would we no longer participate in the creation of a policy of implementation of important projects in practice? Which is why we would now, provided that other laws allow us, form a new independent body, a body that will have a director, a supervisory board, a board of directors, etc. that used to work and we know it wasn't a good model? You say - why don't we do it again and see if we can or can't. We just don't have time to experiment anymore. The laws no longer allow us to do so, and we are now dealing with serious issues, serious problems, and it is not a problem if we address the issue of wastewater, wastewater treatment in the King's country, tomorrow we solve the issue of the deposit in Subotica, Pancheva, Raška and other parts of our country. Our point is to make a list of priority projects and we have a list of priority projects. Together more institutions, the RS government is working on it and why would they ask us to be independent when we all go towards the same goal together...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50097	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50098	And when we do this job as seriously and as responsible as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50099	Thank you. The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50100	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, I think you've explained this Green Fund well, and the amendment's proposings regret the former fund, you know for what reason they're asking – where are the funds? What I'm about to do now is get three reports from the DRI, 500 grand from advertising in one of the daily lists. It was just the minister from the list of previous speakers who had previously been in the same party, 500 000 euros, that was euro, they gave to the billboards and additional for the financing of the lioness on Palic, which was further established by the DRI for 2011. Look where the funds went. Mladjan Dinkic, who was once a minister and also an MP here, said in 2012 in this high house that the former government of the former proposing regime financed a pre-election campaign by importing batteries and giving for recycling. So in 2012, December 21st and 22nd, in this high house. So, unfortunately, it is for the former fund so as not to control the funds. They asked why they didn't get punished. As far as I know, I think the process is still in progress around this case. Thank you very much. I think you've made an excellent explanation for the fund and it needs control over all the finances. It's a guarantee that the funds will be spent on what they're planned for, not going into private pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50101	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50102	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we understand each other perfectly, regardless of what is said tax, tax or compensation, for those who pay taxes, taxes or fees. Here, in what my esteemed colleague calls precision, it's also about expanding the base, so it's just not yet stated that there's a charge to be charged for both healthy air or clean water. So that's why I think it's unacceptable to know by spreading, because too much of it has both economic operators and citizens, that it really wouldn't be of any use, it would only hurt the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50103	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go, Mrs. Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50104	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, fellow Members of the People, I propose that this amendment to Article 22 contained that Article 22 be deleted absolutely, because one of the basic objectives of this bill is a stable system of funding. We all know, we also heard in the principle debate, which is why he stopped working and stopped having a fund to protect the environment. I won't explain all these reasons again. I support the new funding model for environmental protection and the establishment of a green fund as a budget fund. I hope so, and I'm sure we'll now have more control over the spending of funds in the environment. So, once again, I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50105	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50106	In the debate on the amendment of colleagues who suggest erasing and a new formulation of the law that defines the budget fund, the best metaphor is a proverb, wisdom, as you will, the saying "Who lives in a glass house should not be thrown at by stones. “ It’s obvious here, except for the ignorance that the money “polluter pays” never stopped coming into the fund, not for a single moment, and that we never received a report on what the funds were spent on the principle of “polluter of wages” paid by all polluters for 2013, 2014 and 2012. Never, nobody and nowhere. The next time someone lives in a glass house like that wants to throw rocks, it'd be good to have that in mind. I can only hope that no dinar is abused. Knowing the minister and knowing the people who cooperate, I have reason to have that hope justified, because I think it's people with integrity who wouldn't allow it. The same integrity should be a reason not to allow inventing and lying about what is the difference, and what is the similarity to the environmental fund that has been abolished. Removing that fund is a waste of time. We would do well to understand that when we talk about how we will all vote together for the budget fund, which we will call the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia and it is good that we will no longer waste time and what we will have programmes, and the programmes and proposals on how to spend the "polluter of wages" funds are identical to those of the environmental fund. There is not a single change in what will be spent on this kind of funds compared to the definition of what was spent on while there was a environmental fund. We've heard two reasons why we've wasted our time cutting off the environmental fund. One explanation was that it was cheaper. Do you know what kind of explanation that is? It's like listening to a populist-demagogical and unknowing explanation about ministers, associates, MPs, anyone spending a lot of money on official travel, so there's a lot to be saved. Ten years, from 1990 to 2000, no one went on official trips. We've saved as much, we can calculate how much we've saved, that's the story of the fund being abolished because there's a board of directors, because there's bodies, because there's whoever, at least what. The second explanation that we have heard here, that the EU has requested the removal of this fund is a pure lie, and it is a shame that it is so lying here when there are people who know and can easily be checked that it is not about any EU request. No explanation given by the minister, I repeat, is a decent problem they face. I've been closely following the presentations, it's said the way it's supposed to be spoken, I'm talking about the Assembly, about the general will to have anyone say anything about the environmental fund and actually trying to say that disqualification of people disqualifies the institution. That was wrong, the mistake was paid at nearly four years without having a fund in the way that the Environmental Protection Act normally prescribes and with false claims about how much money there was or how much money there was, because, like every year, between five and six billion were in that fund, so 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, we'll just see it. What is the idea of an amendment asking for this to be deleted is to establish a fund for environmental protection with autonomy that would guarantee that all funds collected in the fund under the principle of "polluter pay" will be spent on programmes. Whether these programmes will be brought by the government, the ministry, the agreement with the local administration, the civil sector, the academic community, is not going into it, it is absolutely up to the ministry to determine and assess what is best for the money spent by the polluter. That's not going to happen to the budget green. We will be here in a year, and in two years, we will be on the 'polluter of wages' report for 2014 and 2015. Unfortunately, this fund will allow someone to solve – not all the funds this year, which is on the verge of legality. Why am I still gonna support the Green Fund? Because it interrupts the sinful state without a colored dinar on the principle of "polluter pays", so we'll build it further, we can do it in two steps, we can do it in three steps. This amendment says - let's go now. I understand that we have different views on whether we can do it right now or not, but I don't understand the need to deny reality. All my efforts in the debates, both on amendments and on these laws, will be in appeal, appeal, that all fellow MPs who easily deny the reality of any kind, will voluntarily give up when this area is at stake because it is a common shame. If we have prepared speeches about what the fund was doing and whether there was money or not in the fund or how or not the money used from the fund, it would be good, its own integrity, to save from words that can reach us after a while. Those words have such qualities, while you think you are the master, the thoughts, when you say them, those words to you, Lord. So I repeat that I appreciate the measurement of the Ministry's representatives when they're talking about the fund, because it's smart. But I think the area of environmental protection is the last place in which we should bother the suspicion that we're all living in a glass house and that we should take great care of it, because it's a time in which the reality of all of us in front of our eyes will crack completely clear, the same time in which many will be glad that they've never said the things that have been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50107	Thank you. The word has Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go, Mr. Bliss.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50108	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman and Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very difficult to speak about now about this amendment when he is after public debates where the opposition has declared that for the existence of the Fund, it has been said that for the existence of a stable funding in the environment, and then we have been given an amendment in which they seek to delete the existence of the Green Fund in the law. Now, are you up for funding or are you against funding? You've messed up some things, or when you're writing such amendments, you have to be a little more specific. We get this mountain of amendments, you print them, you write them, and it's "expunged" already somehow entered your blood, but still pay attention. There's no point in discussing an amendment like this. Speaking of this fund, let's put things in place for once. The state is going through one of its periods of general reform. The inherited situation was disastrous, ahead of bankruptcy. These reforms, primarily economic, economic, universal reforms and awareness and responsibility, are something that represents the healing and salvation of this society. We can't single out any segments that he's special and that we're going to give all the money out there, and then we're going to destroy everything else based on which one country needs to work. It's one family with more children and we have to pay equal attention to each child. Well, running a country isn't such a simple thing. It's primarily the principle of that responsibility. Well, we had a fund where you showed how you were doing business in that fund and that's how you run the state at all. You've ruined yourself. We inherited 7.3 billion debt. Only one municipality from that fund, Jagodina was given 550 million, where there was no final report, no confirmed situation, where there was no idea where that money went. Millions of euros were thrown and went through everything, not only in that fund, but in the country, in the state. That irresponsibleness, that wastefulness has led us here. Now we're looking again for a contaminant to pay and everything to go to a fund where out of state, outside of responsibility, someone out of the system is going to sign and spend some money that doesn't fit into the country's strategy. This country must have its own development strategy in everything, even in the environment, and also in health care, even in the economy, and in the economy. We should be clear. We can tell what we want, empty stories, but if we don't restore the economy, if we fail to create new jobs, you get rid of all those stories about anything else, there won't be money for anything. This is a complex and serious matter and this requires one responsibility, one serious approach to this problem. The politicization of everything, the politicization of this fund, the politicization of everything, so we can go to infinity, I just don't know what this is all about. Therefore, this is an attempt to create stable funding in the environment, to try through the system and to open the door for a private public partnership, to import capital on the side with the state to solve capital problems in the country. There is no fund, there is no contaminant that can raise 10 billion euros right now and we can solve the environmental problem overnight, get into the system how to have a European standard when it comes to the environment. We need to be wise and smart enough, careful, responsible, systematic, flexible. This requires one really serious analysis of everything. Well, nobody's here against it. I'd like to see so much money coming from the economy right now that we can form funds, solve everything. Well, folks, this is where the people lived before us. This is where governments lived before this one. Well, we have this situation we have. What have these powerful governments done for decades? It's not that simple. We can pile up empty stories here as much as we want, but this is something that requires a state attitude. This isn't just the attitude of one social activity, this is a state attitude towards every dinar in this country. This country saves on everything. This country is saving. Had the previous governments been lucky to have been saving this much and being so responsible, we wouldn't have had as many problems today. This is now something that requires some time, one painful reform, very painful, but the people are aware and responsible and will go through it and will stabilize this country. We'll solve these environmental problems that we have. There's a step by step going forward. There's no other way. So, people, you understand, I understand and desires, I understand and politicization, and I understand these parties, but don't write to us amendments to wipe out the Green Fund when we've fought so hard for it and through public debates, and you've made that contribution to get it, and now, according to our conscience, according to both our responsibilities and our ministries and our government, we'll see that whatever we can do to fix that environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50109	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do I have the right to a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50111	You have no right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50112	Okay. Dear citizens of Serbia, here, you listened to the discussion, and I would say only one folk proverb – never, should never be proud of ignorance. So, the essence of our amendment, which we said, Madam Minister, i.e. Chairman, to erase the proposal for an amendment made by the Government and remain an original member of the law, normally. So we're asking to delete your proposal, not the law. The point is, respected citizens, that this government and the assembly majority want to centralise as much as possible in the state of Serbia, as well as the funds that are paid on a non-stop basis – the polluter pays and the user pays. Those funds shall be paid on a permanent basis. The point is that the government wants to get into the budget, not be a special budget. The point is, the fund's idea is shutting down. What's a trust fund? It is something independent of the Republic of Serbia's budget, where someone decides on these money independently of politics. You want to politicize that, too. You want politics to solve these problems, and we say – no, if something wasn't right in the system, if they weren't professional enough, put professional people on and let the environment be taken care of by people whose job it is. You want to control the money. We'll see at the end of the year how much money was paid, and how much was used for ecology. Well, then you'll know what you're voting on right now. What I'm saying, I know you won't accept our proposal, but citizens need to see how our policies differ. You want to centralize everything, and we think it's bad, and we have the right to defend our policy. Well, please think again, you're wrong and let the fund stay the way it's supposed to be. Change, you are the majority of the assembly, select the people you want professional in that fund, but make the fund independent of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50113	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with what Mr. Bradic said should not boast of his ignorance, but I don't know what he boasts about it. Mr. Bradic, for your information, and ask your colleagues from the DS, what changed the status of the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund in the Capital Investments Authority? Here's why. In 2006, if I'm not mistaken, an AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund was formed in Vojvodina, which was to place funds in capital projects on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. What are the knowledge of more or less of all the citizens of Vojvodina, what is the knowledge of both the state authorities and the police and the prosecution, is that there have been too many crime, corruption and malfeasance in the Capital Investment Fund, and at least capital investments. That's one thing. The other thing is, you seem to brag about your ignorance. I understand you're not a lawyer, and you don't have to know all the parts of the legal system, but don't honor SNS MPs so they boast of their ignorance. Neither do we boast of knowledge nor boast of ignorance. We just have to remind you that in the Republic of Serbia, that's what you obviously don't know, and that's what your DS colleagues know, but they didn't want to tell you, so they let you be their lawyer. In the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, there is a law called the Law on Delegations, Funds and Foundations and that is one of the reasons that Bojan Pajtic remembered, when he was caught in crime at the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, to rename the Fund in the Capital Investments Authority AP Vojvodina. Why? Because the Fund, the foundation and the debt, since they are treated with the same law, cannot carry out the work normally carried out by public authorities. So you can't educate some fund or some foundation or some asset and say now – well, now from that fund that's independent of the state or independent of the AP we make roads, we protect the environment, we make bridges, etc. It's the opposite of the law, the applicable Funding, Foundations and Retrieval Act. That's what you overlooked, Mr. Braddick. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is when it's a state business, when it's something of state interest, when something of public importance, when something is done by public authorities, so what's more logical than the fund being part of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It can't be any different. What you're up for, I've been listening to and in principle debates, today until you're exhausted, you have to consult the rest of the legal system. It can't be under the Funding, Foundations and Indemnities Act. He can't. That's why those of Vojvodina who will hold onto the chair in Novi Sad for another month and a half have come to realize that the fund is renamed management. Ask them a little what they've changed their name. They're doing what they did. Don't think their technology's changed. They continue to rob, but someone told them – people must change their name because it is not in accordance with the law, the applicable law of the Republic of Serbia. What they've been doing at the fund is what they're doing in the administration today. But it does not matter now, or it will be important when the work of Neboja Malenkovic, Bojan Pajtic, Dusan Elezovic, Momčel Milovic, etc. comes on the agenda of the competent state authorities. Then we'll see how the money was spent, how the money was distributed in municipalities where it is in the power of DS, how capital investments declared the creation of the homes of culture by the villages, and then the prices of five times, ten times more, and by principle – half drinks, half a bar gives, little to me, a little DS, a little something to turn around, etc. Well, it's not made out of this famous Capital Investment Fund, which was a financier, and here and today, it's not a home for children distracted by the development of the local community, if I'm not mistaken, Bočar in New Vienna. It's from that fund. You give money, money spent, apartments bought for fund officials, and the home for children distracted by development is nowhere to be found. I'm saying that's what the D.A. and the police are gonna do. I urge them to do this job as quickly as possible, not because of me, not because of the SNS, but that no one else in Serbia, including Vojvodina, will ever think of stealing the way it has been stolen since 2000 and unfortunately to this day in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Now to put this aside, the fund cannot be independent of the Republic of Serbia's budget, compared to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because projects that are of national importance, environmental protection, as I say, are not humanitarian activity, so now you're building a fund. So it's a state-of-the-art job. Environmental protection is in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, in part in the jurisdiction of the AP, in part in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. It would be the same as, Mr. Braddick, if you were to build a police fund. Then what if there was a MUP, we'd build a police fund, so the police fund would guard public order and peace. Why do we need the Department of Justice? We'll build a trust fund for justice. It can't. Not according to the law, the applicable law, unrelated to this law that we are discussing today in detail. So, Mr. Bradich, don't honor us for ignorance. To those who live in these glass flats stolen from the Capital Investment Fund, you have to ask them what they renamed not to have the authorities come up with a trust fund in the administration. I'm saying again, that's not the subject of the agenda right now. According to the applicable law, not related to this law, what you're saying, and that you've submitted that large number of amendments and that you've constantly showered us with this artillery fire, that we don't know anything, and you know everything, so you don't know anything. What you knew, I don't mean personally, Mr. Bradich, don't get angry, but that logic of the former regime, we now know everything we need, and when we were in power, we knew nothing. That's the funniest possible argument. You know now how foreign policy should be conducted and how Kosovo and Metohija should be kept, and what relations we should have with Russia, and how to protect the environment, and how diplomas are issued at individual universities, now you know everything, you from the former regime, in all aggregate states. The Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party, ask God what you call yourself, now you know everything, by 2012, you knew nothing. What happened at the Capital Investment Fund, Mr. Bradic, you must know, it's the same form that was applied in this Environment Fund. What the DS was doing at the Capital Investment Fund was also doing at the Environmental Protection Fund. Now, this government wants to change and support that change. If we want to save anything for future generations, for our children and grandchildren who will come after us. If you don't think it's logical, let's eat and steal everything we can now, and I don't care how people in Serbia live in the next 50 or 100 years. Don't convince me or try to convince me because I know that this job can be done for 100 euros, if you're with a good friend, you'll be free of charge. Yes, the site, or website of the Environmental Protection Fund, that its construction costs 25,000 euros paid by Oliver Dulic, so don't, please. You want me to name companies that were registered under the name Oliver Dulic, Modest Dulic, Mom, Dad, ask Gods of whom all relatives, through whom all possible public procurements for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and for this fund were made. Literally, the state authorities are forced to conclude, to set up tenders for those companies of his. And now you say SNS boasts of his ignorance. We warn that what happened up until a few years ago, that in Serbia while the SNS is and while we run the Serbian government, it will not be possible to pass. That's what you need to be clear about. And, with that practice of crime, corruption, robbery wherever it comes from. (Miroslav Marinković, from town: Shame on you. Ma, shame on you, shame on you for anything you support the party and for being in a party that paid 25,000 euros. Tell me, which European country did this? Tell me, in which European country is being stolen from children distracted by development? In what European country? In Germany, Italy, Great Britain? Where? Only in Serbia during the DS and then when you lost power, when you couldn't steal anymore, then you separated, so some DS, some of them SDS, some of them are SDS, some of them ask God what, some self-called movements, but if necessary, you'll all be back on the pile and hand in the people's pocket again. But that's not gonna work, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50115	Thank you. The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradić, a replica of two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, here I have experienced a lecture in the short form of a respected colleague, education regarding Novi Sad, Vojvodina, funds and all this story is contrary to what we have been telling so far. When we talk about funds, I say you go to centralization. That's how you centralized the health fund. So you transferred from the health fund to a 300m-euro pension fund at an annual level, to reduce the budget deficit, because you gave it out of the budget, i.e. Not all of us, from the pension payout budget, were given, because there are not enough employed people in Serbia who pay their contributions. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Let's talk about the amendment. I'm replicating you, dear colleague. And it's very educational, and it's good that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50117	Please, Mr. Braddick, I'm going to count this time. Mr. Martinovic, you have challenged the replica, Mr. Bradic has received the right to the replica. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Yes, but I wasn't talking about the PIO fund. ) Mr. Martinovic, you know very well that there is no limit in the replica, that you all use it, I cannot prevent Mr. Bradic from talking outside the topic. Go ahead, Mr. Bradich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50118	Very educationally, I received information about Vojvodina, the Autonomous Province, and the Autonomous Province Fund. It's the same thing, it's a pandan RFO. But let me get back to the subject. The point is that the money collected from the position – the polluter pays, the user pays, goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's your policy, I think it's bad. And we'll see who's right when the final bill is, when we see how much money has gone into the budget and how much is invested in protecting the environment. And there's not much science, and there's no philosophy. I say it's bad. You want everything to control politics, I say - it's okay. You have a majority, you make laws, it's no problem, but I don't think that's good. And citizens, as you say, will go to the polls and say whether someone steals or doesn't steal, let's say that the DRI told someone that 1.6 billion were purposelessly spent, if someone damaged the budget by 120 million in public transport. They'll say anything to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50119	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic, a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50120	Thank you. I say nice and humanely, who lives in a glass house shouldn't throw stones. Who allows himself in the congregation's performances to see harsh words, insults, and demeanings contribute to argument, sin. But everyone chooses how they introduce themselves to others, and man is style. That's the old truth. In the replica, that is, in the presentation of the People's Messenger, a series of lies and what the Messenger calls information, words that try to be stones. To demonstrate that it does not work, I will refrain from that kind of sentence, and there are, which would refer to many people of today's government, from the former opposition, to many people in this room, to their words, to their actions. But you can't do that. If we believe that the culture of dialogue in this hall is such that what the MP has spoken whose words I replicate, is polite, decent Serbia, then we have a much bigger problem than we think. Because it has nothing to do with polite and decent Serbia. The desire to make yourself better by slandering and lying about someone you consider a political opponent is one of the technologies in election games and campaigns...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50121	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50122	... But it's not something we should tolerate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50123	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. According to the amendment, the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50124	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have never said that Bojan Pajtic, Oliver Dulic, Momcilo Milovic, are rude and rude people. They're very polite and very polite. I just said that these polite and decent people paid for the creation of an Internet presentation by the Ministry of Environment Protection of 25,000 euros. The competent man you removed from the Capital Investment Fund for the General Consul in Trieste, Mr. Momcilo Milovic, was one of Igor Reba, also a nice and courteous Mr. from Novi Sad, who received an apartment because Igor Rebe was one of the companies that did less work for the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50125	Mr. Martinovic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50126	Here, I'm going back to the amendment. Well, we talked about these nice and polite people, so this nice and polite Mr. Igor Reba, he gave the apartment to Mr. Momcilo Milovic, but that's why there's no child accommodation facility distracted by the development in New Vienna. And all of this was done by some nice and polite people, very cultural, very educated, who didn't deal with their political opponents in hard words, who didn't raise their voice to anyone, but they used to take something that wasn't theirs without a lot of remorse. So, if you want, I can offer you concrete evidence of this and how Oliver Dulic's companies were exclusive suppliers of goods and services for the needs of state authorities, that these companies were somewhere over 20, that huge money went round. And finally, when the line is drawn, did all of this contribute to a better environment in the Republic of Serbia? It's not. And it was all done by some nice and decent people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50127	Mr. Martinovic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50128	I agree, Mr. Becic, that these are nice and decent people, only I would not like to, first of all, because of my children and because of many children in Serbia, that these nice and decent people would ever come to power again because we all know what they were doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50129	Thank you. By amendment Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, by amendment, yes. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest not to accept this amendment. So it is absolutely unacceptable to delete Article 22, which provides for the establishment of a fund, which provides for the establishment of a transparent system of environmental financing, as stated in the explanation, and I don't think this amendment deserves to be like this, to say, a long debate for the simple reason that it's clear to everyone that it's unacceptable, but DS in both aggregate states likes to talk about funds, likes to delete funds, but also to delete funds from funds. I remind you, Chairman, that the subject of this amendment is the establishment of a fund. In that sense, I would like to say in a few notes that they treated the Environmental Protection Fund through problematic projects in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and Mr Babic as head of the parliamentary group highlighted some examples in principle, but here we can look at the example of the city of Subotica. So, setting up underground containers for waste separation, breaking up and puking at five million and 400 thousand, they asked for money to buy underground containers. They got the money, they were allocated 18 million dinars, and then they called to say they didn't have trucks that would empty the underground containers. That's one example of how they treated the Fund. Recultivation of devastated and greening of uncultivated areas in the city's territory has been paid 49 and a half million. The Commission has not adopted the report because it has noticed many shortcomings, suspicious dates of the project’s application and the construction of contracts, changed activities, no public procurement, etc. I am now asking the question, are the companies Ivan and Modest Dulic's "DG companies" engaged? There are other examples, some are not as big as this Saturday example, but the municipality of Irig, the 2010 contract with the former fund, the subject of which is the emergency recovery of the dump, on which they were paid the total amount of 12 million 348 thousand. More The Sremska Mitrovica Public Prosecutor's Office requested in January 2015, i.e. in January 2015, that the Ministry report whether the work had been carried out and whether property damage had occurred to the ministry on the basis of the contract. The ministry's commission found that the former fund's case was being conducted and that the funds were spent on purpose, and on the basis of a request from the Irig police administration, the ministry replied that the control of the case was not carried out on the ground and that the report was adopted on the basis of documentation submitted to the former fund. The Commission has identified the following shortcomings: no contract with the contractor, no documentation, no nothing, no money. Disincentived funds. A colleague said just now, we want to delete Article 22, we want the same balance on funds. We don't want the same balance in the funds. We want an efficient and transparent system of funding for environmental protection through fund-building, but we don't want to run that fund and treat that fund the way I had the chance to point out earlier, how DS managed those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50131	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 23rd amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50132	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 23 was in fact a alignment with the previous amendments that were submitted. We predict that this, after Article 90, adds the names of Article 90a, 90g, in the name of Article 90a, in Article 90b of Article 1, 2, 6 and 7, as well as Article 90v in Article 1 and Article 4, "The Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia" are replaced by the words "The Fund for the Protection of the Environment". I would briefly rely on this elaborate on what the Environment Fund is and what the budget fund, the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, is. Unnecessary debate has only brought, I think, to citizens a greater doubt who prefers the good people, who prefers the good people and who prefers the citizens of this country to live in a healthy environment in order to preserve their health, not to be the first or second on the list of cancer patients, not to talk, cancer, various kinds of cancers. What gives our solution the right, that it exists in all countries, must be an independent organization, that fund must have the means to do so alone. When it enters the Green Fund, which is a budget fund, as is called the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia, then we have a situation that we have already met, and that is to say, revenues from taxis, or certain services they provide, for example, veterinary services, which were their own revenues from a certain part of the ministry, are transferred to the budget, i.e. In the vault and then used as anyone will. That's how it's gonna be with this. So, as you predicted, 23 billion, as you missed nine billion, then you decided to give as much as you think you should this year, not as much as it takes. I'm afraid that's gonna happen. That's why we insist that the fund be independent. Then the funds that come at the expense of that fund, with the consent of the ministry, with the control of the state, will be used no less transparently only for that, for nothing else. This gives the government a discretionary right to decide to spend these funds on whatever they want, and let's say to switch to other positions, which shows a real or unrealistic factual state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50133	Thank you. Word has Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50134	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we had a fund in one period. We had a special Ministry of Environmental Protection. We had funds in that fund, we as a state, as a Republic of Serbia, but we as the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection had no paper that would refer to project-technical documentation of wastewater treatment in large cities, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, etc. So the funds of the fund were used for promotions, as we have heard of some other actions that we, in the previous two years, have realised in co-operation with NGOs, with the civil sector. This fund formed by this law is an adequate fund to address environmental issues. From this fund, we will provide funding for co-financing of major projects in waste management, in the area of waste water management. So these are assets of approximately 15% to 30% compared to the value of the investment. We provide other funds from EU structural funds. And we, through a series of practical examples in the past less than two years, have shown how we do it. Therefore, these funds will be used in this purpose for large infrastructure projects, for recycling industry, for the green economy, for new employment, and we have no problem having those funds controlled by other authorities of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, I say once again, this fund has been formed in accordance with the applicable legislation, with the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia. As for the control of money spending, this time it's going to be a whole lot bigger, much more rigorous control, safer spending money, and we're not running away from it. We agree with that, because we know what's not done and what we have to do. Here, just one brief example. Let's just say, when it comes to cleaning up wastewater...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50135	Time, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50136	Let me just finish this data.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50137	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50138	By 2041, we should have built 320 plants. We currently have about 50 plants, of which 36 plants work. So, please, what did you leave us, with which we should continue this business to meet European standards, with only five to six plants working in accordance with EU standards?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50139	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50140	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I must rely on the fear of my distinguished predecessor, I mean the MP, who expresses concern that if the fund is independent, the government will willingly spend money without the control of the people of the fund, as if it were a foreign government, as if the government were not under the control of this parliament. If this were my previous colleague, Mr. Bradic, I would understand it, because for many years he has been Director of the Republic Health Fund in Nis and he knows very well that the Republic Health Fund in this country has been stronger than the state for 12, 13 years and that they have spent the money as they wanted until recently. I'll just remind you that from October 5th, then sometime in 2012, this fund has run through its hands about 25 billion euros which is enormously large money, and Serbia's health care has failed or health care has not reached the patients. Likewise, when a large amount of money is poured into the fund, there is a very great danger of becoming stronger than the state and the government. That is why it is good for the fund to be controlled by the government, state and parliament, not by an independent body, as was the case until recently with the Republic Health Fund, which was stronger than the state, and it is likely that Ecofond, or Green, or whatever it is baptized, which is dependent on state and parliament over time would become stronger than the state and government itself. That's why I'm against your amendment, and I think it's appropriate that spending and raising money is controlled by the government and parliament through the budget, in addition to the budget, by the budget, whatever, but it's not going to be a financial independent institution that grows very quickly into abuse itself for the benefit of the individuals who handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50141	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50142	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's go through this story again about this fund and all that. I'm a little encouraged by the view that now this new fund will be the discretionary right of the government, that the government is now working with that money, which is being collected from the polluters, and then that government is going to spend that money. That's not true. The government has no discretionary right to do so, i.e. It goes into the budget, and you know that the budget here is adopted, that it goes through the Assembly and that it's completely transparent and clear and that it will be able to track every single penny. What's safe is going to go over some dinar over what the polluter gives more, and it's not going to go into the environment, it's not going to be robbed, it's not going to be spent, it's going to be spent on the whole system, because the environment, and whether the standard is going to be higher, whether people will be able to live with their standards better, whether they can solve all basic needs, but they won't go away any more as they go away. For the sake of truth, the Ministry's Commission was doing an analysis of the Fund's work, so that the chairman of the Fund's Management Board would also be the Minister for Environmental Protection at the same time. Now I'm going to show you, here's a document, where money went that people and contaminants and citizens took away to ensure a healthier and better environment. 25m euros were spent on Clean Serbia. At a billboard of 500,000 euros, 535,000 euros in the production of a sign for the action, for the daily Blic and Alo, which followed as that action 47,000 euros was given. 7.3m euros, 316 paid and unrealised projects remained. Imagine that. In 316 projects, there's no final report at all, there's no cover, there's nothing. You don't even know where that money went. What are we talking about here now? Don't, if five dinars go higher, if they land in the budget, this Assembly will control it. Those five dinars may retire, they may go to health care, but they won't go here where the money went at the time when you ran the Fund, so be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50143	Thank you, Dr. Blazic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50144	First, I would like an esteemed colleague, who had previously discussed this amendment, to not understand what I was saying. So you said everything the other way around from what I was saying. I would like this discussion to be a contribution to one good spirit and a solution to a problem that is serious in front of us. I mean, you can't see trees from the woods. We're talking about whether or not someone's gonna steal it. Believe me, if I didn't suspect that you were going to steal or someone, a state to take something, I wouldn't even discuss it at all, I don't want to participate in it. I just want to say that our solution, and that is our opinion, our right to think, gives us the opportunity to implement these programmes much more effectively, because you, Madam Minister, know that these projects, and that chapter is extremely important and conditional and other chapters and it must be effectively solved. No one doubts the integrity of anyone, but the efficiency of all this. If we know that we live in a country that has life burdens many problems that we can't ignore and pretend like we don't exist, will those resources be or will they be like... You know, pensions were acquired right, so it was taken away from people 10%, so they got it, so they're gonna have to come back to them. If the salaries were reduced by civil servants, would that save this country? It's not enough. It takes us through these laws, through these legal solutions, and through our proposal, we considered it quite right, increasing the efficiency of the state to do more for less money. I wanted to be colossal so we could all understand each other. So let's not discuss whether he stole it. Anyone who's stolen has to answer and go to jail. I'm the first one for that. I couldn't agree more with you, pal. He should go and answer, but don't relativize something that's right to our opinion that we have such a solution. It's not true it wouldn't be effective. Control it, don't let it. On the other hand, we have no evidence that in any situation where budgets are spent, they are spent rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50145	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic, according to the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50146	Now you're obviously saying one thing here, and the other you're doing. If you're talking about efficiency, well you had four years of the Fund when you ruled, which you weren't effective, that you didn't control those who stole millions of euros. In four years, you've done nothing for the Fund. I have here a full report of the Fund's work, completely where the money went. Nothing for four years, except that billions have been thrown, capital in the environment hasn't been done, but nothing at all. You've been cleaning up wild dumps that have been repeated every year, and you've only had a choice for the same performers to clean up the dump, they're making a new dump, and so we're spinning around in circles. Now you tell us to control it, so you should control it. It'll be more efficient, so the more effective it wasn't for four years of your government, except that billions have been spent. Nothing, I'll give you information here, I'll give you everything. Show any project that's been made out of these funds, that's worth something in this country. Show one, and billions are gone. Subotica, a dump that even the European Commission is making a statement that... It will cost this country, in fact, via the IPA Fund, 25m euros and will work for 12 years. The dump should not cost more than eightm euros. I'm telling you right now, 25 million is going to cost you a Subotic. The Public Enterprise "Deponia Subotica" was created ten years ago. There's a few employees out there who don't do anything, I don't know why they exist. It's all coming from money for environmental science. Therefore, out of 100m euros from the IPA Fund, 25m will pay Saturday in 12 years. We could have made a bar, not to exaggerate, 14 regional dumps with that money. It was a way of working. That was irresponsible. It was a waste. It's a waste. It's a waste. It's a waste. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We've got the debts we have to pay back. That's the problem. So when it's more efficient, why in practice it's not shown that it's more efficient, but nothing, nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50147	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The National MPs Gordana Komic, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Prof. Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 24th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50148	Thank you. The amendment with this content was submitted with a double intention, good in both the first and the second half. The first is to make it clear how much horizontal and vertical legislation and co-operation are needed, and the second is because I think it is on the verge of applying the Rules of Procedure, but still on this good side to talk about how much the percentage of the future budget fund will be for the province, or local self-government. In this case, only for the AP Vojvodina and local self-government, and we have suggested in the first position that the budget fund be financed from revenue generated from the AP territory at 30% of the environmental pollution fee, which has been charged on AP territory and from other sources, and units of local self-government based on members who are not subject to changes and addition of this law. In the second position, we explain what will be spent on by the budget fund. The argument given by the Government – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is necessary to carry out a detailed analysis of the current effects on the Republic of Serbia's budgetary system, as well as an analysis of the expected effects on the aspects of fiscal relations and proportionality in the area of the fiscal policy of the Republic of Serbia and the AP. This sentence cannot be written because the AP has no fiscal policy. The fiscal policy is run by the government, the monetary National Bank. There is no fiscal policy of the Vojvodina. There are those of us who have a dual opinion on it might be worth it, maybe not, maybe we should dialogue on it, but there is no fiscal policy of the AP and the Republic of Serbia. It also says that it is necessary to look at and analyse the organisation of a system of environmental protection, the administrative capacity of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, as well as all effects on the stability of the environmental financing system. What's unstable in the system to know in advance Vojvodina, local self-government, how much percent of the total fund can? The jurisdiction of the provinces and local self-government to establish the same budget funds doesn't mean anything without funding, that's what I'm saying, let's bring together the finance minister here, so whenever, but to clearly explain the plan to us – and when will it be? And, of course, you're giving a legitimate dilemma that I've brought out on which side of the application of the Rules of Procedure is this amendment at all. Why do I think it is important that we open this up – dialogue? Because that analysis you're talking about, there's no analysis without you having an agreement between the representatives of local self-government, Vojvodina and the ministry, but, no deal -- we're going to the minister now to kidnap the money, and the minister says - I don't give the money, and no one does anything. That's not the deal. It's, how do I tell you, the matrix we're used to acting like someone else is guilty of and that our money is with someone else and that our steak is in another plate, so, we just have to take it all away, and everything's gonna be great. It's not a dialogue. And my amendment, that is, we MPs are just about that, at least to keep it said somewhere, because I think it has ears on how to change that dialogue, how to actually do an analysis of the effects. That it can't even be here, but that it has to be in the Ministry between the actors who, under this law, will have the right to set up budget funds, but without funds. To what extent can we all be distracted by this lack of will for the knowledge dialogue, the skills of dialogue on the subject? I'm going to give you an assessment that I sincerely hope will not be achieved because IPA funds that can be applied for here have been talked about what IPA funds have already been used for. We have until March 31st. Otherwise, 150m euros goes back to the EU. There are no projects for that. Annual IPA II. IPA II differs from IPA and that if the country to which it is at some rate of accession does not have a project or does not have an appropriate one, those funds either go back to the EU or country taxpayers in the region that has been prepared. I say I very much hope that my assessment will be wrong. I know that neither you nor anyone else can tell me at this time – we have prepared projects and on 31 March 2017, it poses no danger for Serbia to stop without 150m euros where it has money for the environment. But I watch what year is ahead of us. So, how are we going to do an analysis of the effects or everything you've explained to me? In the year ahead of us, if there is an emergency parliamentary election announced, we will welcome the first serious work on this eventually in August, these are real things, as it goes according to the election procedure. In October, so, before we get a draft preparedness report, it won't cost much, and on March 31st next year, it's time for them to have information about that money that Serbia at least announced in some project that it was capable. Why would I want to get rid of him? Because I know that Serbia has administrative capacities that can do this. If anyone does, there is. And if this assessment of me that I hope is not correct, it helps that no matter what awaits us this year, such as by the people of your ministry, you start to be a job that runs no matter when there will be elections and what happens afterwards, that would be the purpose of this amendment that is not accepted. I understand why he wasn't accepted, but the content of this amendment awaits you after the election. There can be no analysis, no distribution of fiscal income without horizontal legislation, and that's why I signed with my colleagues this amendment. I don't think you're either responsible or you're the only one called for my assessment of what's going to happen with 150m euros by March 31st doesn't apply to you at all, but I hope, as we're told, that this Green Fund is a call, and in this ministry, if anywhere then there are calls for a real dialogue on the right topics and for a job that's waiting for us all, because I think there are people and people and wills and knowledge. Whether or not there will be a budget fund in Vojvodina or local self-government, I don't know how to tell you in advance. But I live in a city where it exists before the EU remembered. So, where there's a will, we need a common dialogue, especially with local self-government, because that's where the lion's part is going to apply what's going to be spending on green funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50149	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50150	I thank the People's Parliament. When it comes to investing the project in environmental protection, you know that a significant part of the funding for these funds is being collected on the basis of that famous lung pollutant. All funds collected in this way are allocated to 60% of the central level and 40% of the level of the locals. You are right not to mention in this distribution the centralized province, or that there is no part that stands out for the province, but there is one part that refers to local self-government that is on the territory of the province. This wasn't the subject of an amendment to this law. It's just that this is a system of funding that's already in place. This should certainly be considered in the next period ahead of what is definitely the adoption of the law in full compliance with EU law in this area, and this will be the end of 2017 and 2018, respectively. We really don't look at the division of territorial, regional, we look at the national level, national interest, and we don't care that we solve the problem in Subotica, as we are now solving through this regional dump, in Vrbas or in Nis. We're just making that list of priority projects. With this in mind, your concern about whether we will use the funds from the EU funds that have been set up in some period of time, let me tell you right now, don't have a dilemma, the funds will certainly be used. We have projects that are fully prepared, fresh impressions from ten days ago from the King, when we submitted complete technical documentation to the local self-government, which is why I mention them, and we have a series of such projects. They are on the list of priority and their realisation is concerned not only by the ministry, but also by the European Integration Office and other ministries within the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50151	Thank you. The National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 24th amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50152	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministry gentlemen, our amendment refers to a member of the 100th that is brand-new compared to the previous one, which is precisely about the province's fund and local self-government. In particular, the intervention of our amendment was under paragraph 3 which states that the funds of the budget fund are used to finance, protect and improve the environment on the basis of a set programme for the use of funds of the budget fund by the competent authorities of the autonomous province, i.e. the unit of local self-government, in accordance with the action and recovery plans set out in Article 68 of this Act, under the prior consent of the ministry on the purpose of using funds. Our intervention has just referred to the rest of the sentence, which is said to have been agreed by the ministry. In our amendment, we have practically thrown out this agreement when it comes to AP Vojvodina because the AP Vojvodina does not have a percentage, as we heard from the previous amendment, the compensation funds, in principle, the pay polluter and the pay user, although it formally has a fund because this relationship is 60:40 between the central government and local self-government and it is unnecessary for the province to have something for which there is no means at all to obtain consent and thereby loses practically some kind of autonomy and its obligations. You rejected this amendment and said that it is being rejected according to the wording given in the amendment that the AP would not be obliged to bring the programme of use of the budget fund in accordance with Article 68, and says – the urgency of the provision contained in the Bill's proposal is that the programmes for the use of the budget fund are being adopted on the basis of a programme of environmental protection, i.e. action and recovery plans that AP and units of local self-government bring on their territory. So, the AP doesn't get any percentages, but it still has to get, like I said a month ago, as a underage child, to ask for consent to something that no one gives her, no allowance. It has a formal account that has nothing to fill, but from those funds it otherwise has on other grounds eventually implements some programs and plans that are really very poor because it has no original income for these purposes. That is why we felt it was not necessary and it is not fair for the province to get consent to its programs and contents. There are other ways to control, but not to treat a minor in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50153	The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50154	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, this amendment has not been accepted primarily for reasons that it is legally impossible to accept it. This amendment does not comply with the laws adopted in the previous period, i.e. in previous years. I will remind you that in 2004, a Law on the Protection of the Environment was adopted, and amendments and additions to this law were adopted in 2009. So Article 68 clearly defines the questions that you now want to change. Article 68 and Article 100. That's not possible at this point, but I'm going to take another chance to point out that we're really not making a difference between certain local self-governments, individual cities. We want to solve environmental problems in the Republic of Serbia systematically, in an organised way, according to the list of priorities. You know where the higher priorities are and where there's more pressing problems to solve. I want to say that there is also this part that I mentioned earlier, which belongs to local self-government based on taxis – the polluter pays, but they have their own income with these funds because these local self-governments also prescribe their own fees from entities, or from all those in the territory of their own making a certain kind of pollution. So they have two sources of income used to solve problems in their territories. I just want to say one more time for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina not to make a difference. We solve problems systematically and according to priority lists.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50155	Time. Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The Committee on the Protection of the Environment submitted an amendment to Article 28. Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50156	The amendment submitted by the Environment Protection Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50157	Thank you. I understand the minister has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50158	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50159	Thank you. I understand the minister has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50160	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50161	Thank you. I understand the minister has accepted the amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Protection of Nature You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Jovana Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković, Vesna Marjanović, Aida Ćorović, Dragan Sutanovac and Prof. Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic together submitted the 20th amendment. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50162	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, in principle we had certain concerns, we presented some of our arguments. I was a little late to report on that amendment that was accepted, so now I don't want to turn out to be a pain in the ass, but we're happy with the principle debate on the Nature Protection Act. They are pleased with the discussion on both committees, especially on this committee this morning, on which we have accepted or at which you have previously suggested that certain amendments be accepted. We remain with the one said in the principle debate that we will support the law if a number of amendments are accepted. It's accepted even more than we expected, and I have to admit, and I really don't want to be clumping and burning. I just want to support what you've accepted, and I want us to keep talking that maybe in some coming days, months, maybe even in some subsequent governments, we're fixing these laws and that the solutions are getting better and better, that we're not postponing repairs. I apologize to the chairman. I may have abused a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50163	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50164	I'm done. There'll be an opportunity. There's still a dozen amendments and we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50165	When it comes to environmental protection, everything is allowed. National MPs Marko Djurisic and a group of MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50166	In this amendment, we asked that this part of the wild bird species be deleted. We accept your explanation. It seemed to us that it might be better for the exemption to apply to all wild species and not just for birds, but if the ministry considers it, they wouldn't be spending too much on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50167	The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50168	Our amendment, which in Article 78(1), says: "wild species" adds: "which are carried out by methods that can endanger these species, such as: capture, collection, marking, sampling and the like", and the words "prepared opinion", are replaced by the words "proposed conditions". This amendment was made not so much to be accepted in these amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act and your explanation explained why this goal cannot be met, which is why our idea implies that other members of the law change and that provisions for issuing licences for scientific and educational purposes are amended. But we think it should be done. So that's what this amendment is for. It was not accepted on the Committee, it was not accepted even when the Nature Protection Act was passed, to my great regret, because it was said to prevent, in fact, the fact that activities are actually carried out under this law, if we put that it cannot be put in place by methods that threaten these species to be carried out. We have a problem here, we who belong to those who think it is a common benefit to have ideas and protection, when it comes to wild species, carried out strictly and there are no excuses and excuses, and people who say – wait, see reality, I cannot provide the way in which I catch this species without being what is in the law. I understand that, but I can't give up on these amendments, because whenever I do, the methods used are such that they don't endanger these species and that we have a much greater involvement of scientific and educational institutions and experts in the broadest sense, including people who do this and voluntarily, within the civil sector, or simply as humans are, by the nature of life experience, lovers of nature. You know, I learned a lot from my professors at the Faculty of Technical Sciences and at the Natural-Mathematic Faculty of Protection. It was simple in Novi Sad that it was very early to notice that it was necessary to invest in staff education, but it was equally valuable to me from people who always cared about protected species, whether they were hunters, whether they were simply living in a region where I came to fish, and taught me things that could not possibly teach me any books or lectures. In that sense, this amendment is. I'm not asking you to explain it to me, it's quite in line with what needs to be explained, but maybe next year, 2020, 2021, once we start treating wild species the way it's supposed to be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50169	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50170	The People's Parliament did not ask for an explanation, it more discussed what they wanted to achieve with this proposal for an amendment. I would like to say that as a minister, I am extremely pleased and simply want to thank you for your support that you have given us in making these laws, both you and the Members of the Green Party, and to say that this amendment has not been accepted for reasons, above all, which is not in line with the other members of the Law and which would require further harmonisation. Let me just tell you that just in the coming period, there should be an intense dialogue, and we think we've established a good dialogue. I don't think you've accepted that as our openness to discuss the bill's proposals, some solutions, before they enter the congregation procedure. Because when they come into congregation procedure, as in this particular case, we cannot accept anything, although it is good, because we have to respect other previous provisions, other members of the law. All of this we could solve with those public debates, round tables, and even if there were no discussions and round tables and listening, we are really always ready for dialogue, for conversation, for a reasoned approach. These are really issues and problems that require a good argument, because it is simply impossible to solve them without profession, without science, which has also made a huge contribution to the current affairs in the field of nature protection, and not only in practical terms, but also in terms of the preparation of good legal solutions, legal solutions that are in the interest of nature protection, which are at the same time solutions that are contained in the laws of other far, far more developed countries than we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50171	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic jointly submitted the 27th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50172	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in Article 27, we wanted the minister to prescribe the conditions of keeping live specimens of wild animals in captivity, the way in which the specimens of wild species are marked, the conditions that must be met by zoos, bans and restrictions on the keeping of certain species of wild animals in captivity. Of course, in one of the following views, we wanted that if a person is unable to keep live specimens of wild animals in captivity, it is necessary to notify the ministry without delay, to take over copies of them in further jurisdiction, in order to take care of them, in accordance with the law. In the principle debate, we said that in this part of animal welfare, it seems to me that they were correct changes. We wanted to define in this way the necessary content of the sublaw. Maybe that was a little pretentious. Here you say in your explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason of accepting amendments under regular number three, and that is understandable, but we wanted to apostrophy that the persons who have reported specimens of certain species of wild animals, who are no longer able to hold them captive, should in some way allow them to leave to the competent ministry to take care of these wild species. All right, we understand the explanation and it seemed that this might be more clearly defined, but given that some sublegal act is yet to come, I assume you'll have this amendment or this kind of wish in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50173	Thank you, Mr. Karic. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic, together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Parliament group, Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic, together submitted the 29th amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50174	Thank you. This is one long amendment, it seems to have been very important. I thank you for accepting this amendment, not reading the explanation for which it is accepted. It is also about the recording of the keeping of specimens of strictly protected and protected wild animals. We wanted the samples reported in 2011 without proof of origin to be introduced into the certification process, i.e. to establish a single system to regulate further handling. We wanted to enable and accept and implement certain analyses, including DNA analysis to identify the origin of the specimens, which is increasingly the practice and competent authorities for the protection of wild species in the EU Member States and the United States. In this position and in this amendment, it is necessary to specify on the basis of which rules the certificates in question are issued and to further record this mention, more precisely, to keep records of the keeping of copies in accordance with EU rules, both for live specimens and for the dead and for their parts or derivatives. Also, the formulation is more clearly defined when holders are not obliged to obtain certificates, and the marking obligation is prescribed in Article 86. I thank you once again for accepting this amendment, and indeed this debate looks much better on the Committee than it did before. Unfortunately, the end of this government is coming to an end, so I guess we'll all have a chance together to work better and faster in another government for the benefit of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50175	Thank you, Mr. Karicu. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic, together submitted the 31st amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50176	I thank you, Your Honor. Here we had a desire to include abandoned specimens, that the Ministry, through an administrative body that exists in the Republic of Serbia, would decide to continue dealing with specimens, which is in accordance with Article 8. CITES Convention. It is also necessary to include abandoned specimens, to introduce order into the nearest veterinary organisations when it comes to these attitudes and this amendment. Of course, we have a problem, as we would say, of general market liberalisation and the neoliberal concept of the market, which tends to privatise everything, and then often the state remains without an adequate response when everything is privatised in different areas of society. I'm not just talking about veterinary services here right now, but sometimes someone for some reason can turn their heads, even though it would be his obligation, just because he's driven by financial impulses. Green Serbia has a slightly different view of both markets and economies, which is why it is important for segments of society, such as water, protection from natural disasters, a veterinary system that can be in a broader sense a source of some infections, and not just a wind, that they should not turn their head to the side, but also those who deal with private business, when public health and the health of citizens and citizens of the Serbian state are concerned, should not go deaf about certain requirements. This is, as I say, a broader concept, but it is important for us to accept and recognise it as an important link in modern society, and it is also one of the fundamental values of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50177	Thank you. Members of the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic, together submitted the 32nd amendment. Thank you. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 34th amendment. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic, together submitted to the 37th amendment. Thank you. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50178	I thank you, Your Honor. The Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia wanted these legislative proposals, of course, with fewer ideological differences in our three parties, to indicate that the control is and that the inspector must have a clearly defined authority to control cross-border trafficking in wild species, not only to prohibit cross-border traffic. We have indeed in the past much more than perhaps lately, but there have been manipulations and abuses of wild animals and animals in captivity. Very often, perhaps, now that I'm not banalizing, but in the circus there are some wild animals. Animal rights organisations are not always so mild and very often these animals are exposed to torture. It is important that the state pay attention, although, of course, citizens and citizens are most important, but what we must protect, we must pay attention to the welfare of animals. We wanted to enable the inspector to access the specimen in a smooth manner to perform physical examinations for the purpose of reading permanent markings and the like. It is necessary for inspectors to be able to control, uninterrupted, every possible aspect of the holding of specimens of wild animals in order to effectively exercise control over the application of the provisions of this law. Again, shall I say, here we have whether all private property or private property is inalienable? Of course, if it can endanger public health or if it can endanger the country's security, there is no privacy that must be protected when it comes to greater and more significant interest. I thank you one more time, because this may have been both of us. We try to propose concrete things, sometimes less or more we understand each other, but in any case these laws and changes are good. We wanted, perhaps slowly, to train everyone together, to make the changes more drastic, more visible, to accept or discuss here completely new legal solutions. Sometimes there is a need for transitional solutions to reach a total and complete amendment of the Nature Protection Act. Then we will probably have laws that match the EU very soon. But again, I appeal to you and to my colleagues and colleagues, we have to deal with the application, we have to regulate all our laws, which one day is likely to be one hundred percent in respect of EU directives and laws, to be applicable, to have our citizens living with these laws, to feel the well-being of these laws and to protect them, both by these laws, and the environment, and the air and the environment, and ultimately their civil rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50179	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic – Green Serbia submitted to the 41st amendment. Thank you. The 43rd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs from the Parliamentary Group, Boris Tadic and MP Ivan Karic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Environment Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50180	I thank you, Chairman. Say in the beginning, I apologize, has the amendment been accepted? (Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic, from the place: Amendment accepted. Turns out I only answer when the amendments were accepted to praise the Ministry, and I wanted to do a little bit of...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50181	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50182	Well, now I can't criticise again. I wanted to criticize a little bit. I'm kidding. So, in the light of the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia says – the criminal provision refers to the conditions of keeping wild species in captivity, including zoos, the criminal provision would only refer to examples for which the Ministry rejects the request for certification. This standard seemed necessary to us to avoid the automatic sanctioning of a person who, at the time of control by a competent inspection, does not possess certificates from the Ministry of Certain Examples, or persons who have not applied for the issue of a certificate, but who could obtain the certificate concerned if they prove the origin of the specimens. This is also our last amendment to these legal proposals. As we said in the principle debate, we will support this legislative proposal, we will vote in favour of the Nature Protection Act. I thank mostly the ministers, but I have an obligation to thank the chairman of the Environment Committee. I believe that he, in part, influenced the acceptance of a part of these amendments and that today's debate may, although in this third legislative proposal, we will discuss some more matters, but the debate on the Committee, Mr President, was very constructive. Perhaps fellow Jovanovic will come to this third draft of the law, so perhaps we can see if there is room to accept some amendments to waste management, but once again thanks for the co-operation and hope that we will make such good laws, or say that some good remarks will continue to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50183	Thank you, Mr. Karicu. The word has Mrs. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50184	I also thank all MPs who participated in the debate, of course, the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection who also contributed to achieving such a high degree of consent, as probably no other law has been reached. I am really pleased that, and I am very pleased that we have managed to through dialogue, meaning, through conversation, through a reasoned discussion in the previous period and today on the Committee, we come to solutions that we can also praise as government and position, as well as opposition. This is an amendment with a correction to be accepted and, behold, simply, thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50185	Thank you, Madam Minister. I find that since the government accepted the amendment in the same text that also the Government's representative at the session accepted the amendment, so that the amendment was accepted as a whole and became an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law on principles, in particular and in general. We move to the third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Management of Waste You have adopted amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Environment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The Committee on Environment has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment, Madam Minister. Please make your statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50186	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50187	Thank you. I find that a representative of the Government has accepted the amendment of the Committee. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) What amendment, sir? Amendment of MP Dragan Jovanovic? Here you go. The word has Dr Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50188	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to clarify this amendment to Article 2, since it has been previously said that the Government has accepted our amendment to the Committee. Mr Jovanovic has submitted a very meaningful amendment, it is essentially identical to this amendment proposed by the Committee, but we have only carried out one technical order, as I would say, of his amendment and in fact this is his proposal, because the idea of an esteemed MP was to ensure the possibility that waste could be treated not only at the site of his sequel, but on a mobile facility and at another location, because there may be no place for that waste to be done in order to install a mobile facility, then we would enter the problem. So he noticed it well, and he brought it up, but technically he didn't do a good story, so we just did a little redecoration and we came up with that solution. Normally, that hazardous waste will be applied to the principle of proximity to prevent its transport and create certain conditions for environmental damage. Just enough to work, so people know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50189	I thank you, Mr. Bliss. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50190	I thank you, Chairman. Of course, on this amendment, I agree with my distinguished colleague Blazic, that he is completely meaningful and in this direction, is really supporting the motive, the motive for submitting amendments, although he is technically readjusted and edited by the very text of the amendment submitted by the Committee, which is essentially very good. However, for the sake of citizens and a very clear message to citizens, something else should be pointed out, which obviously is not to shorten both time and allow the debate to continue, which is precisely one major danger for the state of Serbia, when it comes to infectious waste, or so-called waste, dangerous waste, which is otherwise due to the provision of health services. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens are neither educated enough, nor sufficiently aware of the consequences that can cause anything related to the management of this type of waste, so-called hazardous waste. Why am I saying this? Because it's mostly hospital waste, if taken as a guess by a respected minister, that Serbia has some, like, 50,000 hospital seats, and there must be a lot more. There's one information that's aproxatizing, which is that 0.7 kilograms or 700 grams, just one patient place goes to this kind of waste. When this is added, or mathematical surgery brings into some final number, then we have a 10,500-ton-a-year figure that involves exclusively hazardous waste. It's really a huge amount of hazardous waste. It's particularly dangerous here because it's an infectious waste that's on the one hand classified as pharmaceutical and toxicological or some other species. Why does this point to you? It is indicated that Serbia does not have technical and technological opportunities to comply with the National Waste Management Strategy or eliminate this waste through recycling, i.e. destruction or incineration, or to lager in an adequate manner. For what? Because somewhere between 10% and 25% of pharmaceutical waste is extremely dangerous waste, risks to human health and the environment. Such waste annually has, respected Serbian citizens, as many as 70,000 tonnes over the last five years, at the level of the years. Indeed, it is an extremely large amount of, in principle, extremely dangerous waste that is completely inadequate, which is inadequately managed. I must draw attention to the fact that as many as 62% of the temporary storage facilities of dangerous materials in the country in Serbia do not meet the conditions for safety...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50191	Mr. Jovanovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50192	Of course, only about the amendment and I'm talking, it doesn't meet the security requirements of the warehouse. Why did I say that the amendment is supported, i.e. the motive of the amendment itself, by the honourable MEP Jovanovic? He spoke exclusively about how to rationalise waste transportation costs. The transport of waste is spent in Serbia between 1.5m and 6m euros per kilogram, as the waste is exported from Serbia to burn outside Serbia at huge costs. We esteemed gentlemen, and you, too, the chairman, to understand that it is only the amendment that we cannot bear, and I am sure that this opinion is shared by the minister of such great transport costs. If it is considered that no burner in Serbia has been built, that we have a trend or need to build such burner facilities, then this is precisely the reason for burning dangerous waste in the burner plants that Serbia unfortunately does not have and is necessary. Vienna as a green town has 5 burn rooms, recycling centers, all in the center of the city. These burners warm the entire city, supplying heat and hot water. We in Serbia and the Honorable Minister think that this should be an appeal with this amendment we must have in this National Waste Management Strategy and one such concept, which is the concept that as soon as possible at the level of local self-government, the question of the concept of building burners we unfortunately do not have, and the local self-governments also had a wide space to build such burners. I'm starting with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50193	Please, Mr. Jovanovic, the MPs rightly call for us to return to the topic. Especially since we have not discussed the previous amendment that has been accepted, which is the same amendment, and now we are discussing the amendment after which it has not been accepted. I mean, it's a little vague for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50194	But there is no reason not to have a debate about it and not to show what is important for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50195	But why didn't we have a debate under the previous amendment that was exactly the same and which was accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50196	There's no reason for the chairman not to have a debate. I'll finish my presentation very quickly with the next two sentences. I would just ask that when future defining anything that involves a legal act that will naturally improve the quality and the kind of law that we adopt in mind exactly what rationalisation means, or a reduction in costs when we talk about hazardous waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50197	Thank you. The Committee on the Protection of the Environment submitted an amendment to Article 18. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50198	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50199	I find the Government's representative has accepted the amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branislav Blazic. Here you go, Mr. Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50200	Thank you, Your Honor. We have another amendment here, Mr. Jovanovic is not here, I will explain because there have been a lot of words on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, about this amendment. The board voted - to accept this amendment, I say immediately. It's an amendment that tries to fix the system as much as possible when it comes to local self-government towards dumps. We in Serbia have a very big problem that local self-governments, especially less, although they have the opportunity to use certain conditional, sanitary dumps that are in their immediate vicinity by all regulations, do not want to take their waste to these dumps but rather to make wild dumps in their own atmosphere, and thus enjoy the environment. There's no mechanism to force it. It all comes down to their awareness and conscience, which often does not exist in certain local environments and are more likely to separate funds from the budget for many other things, which are not in the interests of the citizens of the municipality, but rather to separate funds for solving the original municipal problems, primarily the landfill, municipal waste. Therefore, this amendment, which was submitted by Mr Jovanovic, goes in such a way that these municipalities are bound to be bound by obligations, if they are already provided the conditions that they can join a sanitary dump and do so, otherwise they are perceived as contaminants, to find a mechanism to force them into one system, is everything else we have tried so far declaratively. The Ministry more has some possibility of controlling the advisory etc. but there is no possibility of direct conditions, because until now, and the strategy and everything else was on the principle of some conscience and consciousness. So these amendments, as they're worked out, are pretty much for those of us who think about it and take care of it, acceptable and meaningful, because this should be the first step towards someone in the future system of creating all the other dumps. Some municipalities sign even some memos that they will enter the system of regional dumps, but when regional dumps end they simply don't have, you can't legally force them to do so. This would be one of the first mechanisms, let's say also retraining and showing and raising the awareness of culture, to force them, because otherwise, obviously, practice has so far shown and can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50201	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. Just so it's not unclear, you said the amendment was accepted by the Committee, and we don't have it accepted here. We don't have a committee amendment accepted here. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50202	Thank you. Dear President, we truly respect your opinion and the Committee's position and respect both your thoughts and the reasons you have now presented, explaining the amendment you have submitted. We cannot accept this amendment, simply because the proposal for this amendment is not in the context of the bill that we have presented today in the previous days. So it's not acceptable, it's not applicable, it's subject to amendments and additions to this law. So, it would be practically inapplicable, and that's why we can't accept it, but on the subject of these problems that you put out and that you say should respond adequately, we respond by providing for penalties for irresponsible local self-governments in criminal provisions. In doing so, this section relating to the establishment of the municipal order was also regulated and regulated by the Law on Community Works. So, once again, you're absolutely right, the argument is quite fine, but it's not the subject of amending and supplementing this law, and by doing so, you would create problems in practice, and on the other hand, legally cannot be incorporated into the text of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50203	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50204	Thank you. I voted together with my fellow Members for the amendment of MP Dragan Jovanovic, who, with full awareness of what this would mean for the adoption of amendments by the proposings, but I would ask the promoter to hear the message quite unequivocally and clearly, that the unanimous committee had adopted this amendment. This should be a strong message for the problem that we have seen completely unequivocally on the Committee, and the MP wanted to resolve this amendment, because there are local self-governments that assess that they are not being paid for transporting municipal waste to the dump. It's the creation of wild dumps. Removing wild dumps is one so easy to prove waste of money that I don't think we should even talk. Why did we all vote for this amendment? To show that the proposaler's intention, then to mark such a local self-government as a contaminant, implies a clear message to all local self-governments. In the absence of our common dialogue, why the municipalities, although bound by the laws and regulations of which the minister spoke, are all true. It says there they're going to be punished, it says there what needs to be done in the communal, but it doesn't work. It doesn't happen in reality. In reality, it happens that you set aside annual budgets for the removal of wild dumps. My fears are that these changes and additions have been done by a kind of legislation of non-sanitary dumps. I know it's not the proposing's intention, but I know how laws are read and there's always ready for those who have something on the edge as a solution, to read so that it's at the expense of what it's actually supposed to be an example. The total number of wild dumps, the total number of wild dumps already being removed, gives in the sum of huge money, huge money. Then it was up to us with the content of the amendments, which Parliamentarian Dragan Jovanovic gave, that we really asked who Cherishevski was in the 18th century, what to do, what to do, how to break up that unfortunate, chain wheel, in which you write the rules that should eliminate wild dumps, non-sanitary anyway, whatever, we don't have the means in our hands to apply it in practice. Then we give the message - wait for you, the municipality, you're actually polluting the environment, which is true. Every wild dump is a kind of pollution by a different kind of waste, most of the time it's municipal waste, but it could be anything. That's what we're witnessing and tanks that clean septic pits and construction wastes, shot, whatever comes to mind, including sometimes, unfortunately, medical waste or what they don't do or who are in charge. So this is a good situation that your illustration of the poetry, the word we talked about, which is unconductable, which is that the actors who have the authority to worry about in some kind of dialogue, are such that the dialogue is in the dispute and that everyone has their arguments and that we need to continue it, to find a solution that local self-government really will solve the problem of wild dumps forever. Can you do that without regional dumps? He can't. Can you do it without the firehouse? He can't. But can this, we from the Assembly, all of us together try to do our supervisory and control role, not pressure the government, to inspect, to force the authorities of local self-government to really apply the laws that oblige them, but to try to establish dialogue between us which government we control, between those who regulations should apply those rules and change them. I'm a supporter of repeating people's wetlands and proverbs, because I find them precious and rarely hear them before. There's one that's completely attached to me to building a rule of law, that's what I've been doing for 25 years, and that's -- when you're beating on a sack of flour, whatever's right, you throw it out of a bag. There's nothing left in your bag. So, when legislation focuses only on punishing, there are often real changes that we are prone to, and we, you in the government, are all the same to me, which you suggest we discuss. So the damage turns out to be common. Whether it can continue through dialogue in the Assembly, whether it can be done by the Government, I don't know at this point to assess it, but I must say that, um, I'm glad that the Proposer has accepted the Committee's amendment to see that the Green Fund is also seen in the Waste Management Act, it's the same policy, that's how good results are made, or there's going to be another change and addition or different changes, other laws, which commit local self-government, I don't know. But, as I said several times, for the environment area, we lack institutional dialogue. We lack that one who is chosen in the municipality, not chosen, appointed, appointed, professional, not professional, doesn't matter. But who in the municipality is competent to keep an eye on the fact that there is money for the transport of municipal and other waste, that there are mechanisms not to form new wild dumps and to calculate how much it costs to permanently remove dumps, so that it does not shake hands and say – it can be different to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50205	I thank Mrs Comic, and you have no more time for the parliamentary group, you have no time for an authorised representative. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go, Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50206	I thank the Honorable Chairman. As an authorised representative. Very short. I understand the formal-legal reasons for rejecting this amendment, but it should be pointed out that fellow Jovanovic has submitted this amendment out of the best intentions, and above all, perhaps, the best knowledge of the situation on the ground, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia and the management of a small one, without the intention of offending it, but the management of a small, relatively small municipality, which faces problems that may not always be solved by itself. When we talked in the principle debate, I was on behalf of our SDS parliamentary club – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, looking for an explanation of the term "non-sanitary dump" in some later opinions, but I understand that this is not a topic, but this is a problem that we have to solve on the ground as soon as possible, to find a way to start with these insanitary dumps to deal with and, in fact, what is in its explanation and the text of the amendments, the distinguished colleague Jovanovic and said, "full, unfortunately, it is full of Serbia, it is no blame for anyone in the government, nor for MPs, nor for the presidents of municipalities, and yet, to all of us it is a grudge. Serbia is full of wild dumps. We have to start solving them, and when they're not the subject of the law, they have to become the subject of the law as soon as possible to solve problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50207	Yes, go ahead. Now that we've been discussing your amendments for a long time, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50208	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to say that my amendments, let me say, have raised a great deal of attention and I was really pleased this morning on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment that my amendment was unanimously accepted even though the government had rejected it. And I have to say, here's the first time in a year and nine months that something like that happens, and that's why my pleasure is bigger. What was my idea? I also tried and when I spoke before in the principle debate, first of all to point out the illogicality when we are now talking about the Waste Law, and not in one appropriate way to resolve the issue, not only of wild dumps on local self-government throughout Serbia, but of course the disposal of garbage. We have a national strategy. The national strategy included the so-called so-called "Northern Strategy". Regional collection centres, or regional dumps. Unfortunately, we in Serbia have examples, and I must say a good part, obstructions of local self-government. Mr Blažić, who is chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, used a nice definition on the Committee this morning, and because of the public watching this TV transmission, I must repeat, and that is, above all, that local self-government, unfortunately, has no practice, that sometimes it is in their interest to have as many wild dumps as possible, then you have your own small fund in a utility company, and then you determine companies that are going to clean up these wild dumps, then of course you are melting yourself with hours of companies and you are not interested in solving the issue and disposal and disposal of garbage in a system way. Since I was president of the municipality for about 10 and a half years, and now I am president of So Topola, I have resorted to one method that I consider to be educational for other local self-governments, which is to do one private public partnership project and, globally, in the territory of the entire local self-government, this problem has been solved and therefore I have offered an amendment to this law, to force local self-governments. If I could solve it in Topoli in an adequate way, that literally every household, whether it's in the city or in the country, has its own garbage can, organized garbage disposal, then you have the primary recycling of that garbage, and what can't be recycled by contracting to a regional dump, to so-called. Permanent storage, if we could do it and solve it in a permanent and adequate way, then so can everyone else in Serbia. It's a illogical excuse that I heard this morning from the Ministry's associate, or the Minister of Agriculture, in whose context and environmental protection, that, I don't know, if my amendment is adopted, that there will be a problem with the funds, where these funds will be paid, in what way. What exactly am I looking for? I'm asking that municipalities that haven't been properly cleared of garbage should be declared polluters. I am once again for the citizens to repeat, if local self-government is unable to solve the primary thing that it exists for, which is to resolve the matter of garbage from its territory, then it should pay for it, and pay for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that is, in that so-called. The green fund that will be established, and then the Serbian Government has mechanisms to intervene and simply in these local self-governments, at least in these mechanisms, we are Serbs only known when you hit us in the pocket so that we can move and solve things, and in such a way local self-government is launched to simply do the private public partnership mechanism in their territories and that we have such a situation as we do around Serbia today, when you go anywhere, I mentioned national parks and tourist centres, to see huge amounts of junk at the end of the road. Neither does the argument I heard on the Committee this morning, that the local self-government of the Law on the Organisation of Local Self-Government, or the Law on Local Self-Government, are the only ones in charge of organising these things in their territory. I said one example from 2008, when as president of the municipality at my initiative at the assembly session of the municipality I made a decision on the introduction of so-called ecological fees on the territory of your municipality. What exactly did that mean? We've introduced so-called. "ecological sauce phones" and we had an emergency service that intervened on citizens' tips that anyone passing through Topola was taking a transit dump by the road, and if one of the citizens took pictures of this photo and forwarded a tip of the registration mark of the car from which the trash was dumped, the municipal inspection came out on the spot, photographed it, and immediately gave to judges for violations, and we were brought to the local session of the Dragon Penitentiary. In order to get the garbage bag out of the car in 2008, we brought in a fine of 50,000 dinars and all that, we had 200,000 for major violations, and that worked for a few months, until unfortunately we punished a lawyer from Užica, who complained to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50209	Mr. Jovanovic, please, just come back for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50210	I'm sorry, but, look, I'm using my authorized representative's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50211	Regardless, but you have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50212	Okay. I just wanted to say the argument I heard from the ministry's associate, why are local self-government on the one hand competent, and on the other hand it's not the ministry? And just to say that the Constitutional Court's decision, which I have in writing, is that I cannot impose fines that will be significantly greater than those prescribed by the Republic, but that I should return to the amendment. I would ask fellow MPs, later when we vote, first of all, to support the position of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and of all colleagues and colleagues to support the simple position I advocate in the amendment, and he says – a municipality that is not able to regulate the transport of garbage from its territory to declare itself a polluter and to pay funds to a fund that will be called the Green Fund and that in such a way that the mechanism of the ministry as it will be called in the next government, I hope that there will be a Ministry of Environmental Protection, but that the ministry has the funds, there is money, that then it regulates an adequate way, to say, the storage of that garbage. What is important is that local self-governments in the district area cannot avoid making deals with regional dumps that have all the conditions, having sanitary dumps, not avoiding them, not jeopardising regulations, but knowing the responsibility of everyone at the level of local self-government that this problem does not know how to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50213	Thank you. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50214	Thank you. Amendment of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment is hereby adopted. I am taking this opportunity to comment on the discussion of MP Jovanovic. So, I totally understand you. We and our professional services understand the idea, and it's a really great idea. We fully support her, but what's the problem? The problem is that it is not sufficiently elaborated and as undeveloped, it cannot legally be founded in this law, it cannot be applied in practice. This raises the question of the responsibility of local self-government holders, meaning those responsible for the functioning of local self-government, as well as of the MPs. In what sense do I say it and why do I think it? That's what I'm saying because we've been preparing these laws for a very long time, almost a year of intensive work behind us. I have repeatedly called on MPs to take part, to talk, to make their proposals. Now, at this point, even if we accepted this amendment, it wouldn't be enforceable. Professional services say that by accepting this amendment we don't actually get anything, because we haven't established the criteria for paying the fee, which is paid, at which rate, who prescribes the amount of compensation, means payments. And in addition, this law, the Waste Management Act, does not regulate these issues but regulates this previous law whose amendments were discussed in the first part of today's session, so the Environmental Protection Act. We could have built all of this into the Environmental Protection Act. We made a simple mistake, not us, but you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50215	Thank you. But we're on the committee's amendment that you accepted, Madam Minister. I find that the amendment has been accepted by a representative of the government. You can't talk about the previous amendment, you're confused. Mr. Jovanovic, who has no right to speak on this amendment, reported. (Dragan Jovanovic, from town: Replica.) You have no right to a replica. (Dragan Jovanovic, from the place: I was misread. ) Mr Jovanovic, the fact that Madam Minister has returned to the previous amendment does not allow you to speak now, it is the Minister's mistake and you cannot now get the right to reply. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50216	Dear ladies and gentlemen, if Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic has found some obstacle to the acceptance of Mr Jovanovic's amendment to acceptance...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50217	Mr. Pavicevic, I am asking you to speak of an amendment that is subject to discussion. You're confusing us enough so no one in this room knows what amendment we're on anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50218	Here, to accept this amendment that we have submitted to Article 41, there is no obstacle, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. I'm asking for your 100% attention to the argument I'm about to offer you. Namely, in the text of this Article one term is used as “a view”. We, reading all attitudes, noticed that the term should be “monitoring. ” Mrs Bogosavljević Boskovic, this is not a matter of legal-technical order, because both the word "control" and the word "control" exist as words. You can confuse some people in the legal and technical order, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic. So, we just want to say that now it's not some literal mistake like this, but it's possible that in the legal-technical order someone opens up a Serbian dictionary, reads the meaning of the word "image," and the meaning is "view, understanding", etc., and actually your idea was to say "control," which means "supervise." controlling some work, that is, work. I ask you to use the common sense to a full extent and to accept this amendment, because there is no reason not to accept it, unless you have decided to prevent us from accepting this amendment from reaching 10% support in the electoral body. If that's an obstacle to accepting the amendment, then it's not worth our dialogue here, then it's not worth the debate. So I ask you, Mrs Bogosavljevic Boskovic, to think carefully and accept both the argument and our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50219	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I've already asked you to speak a little more quietly. You're yelling a lot. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50220	Thank you. As an authorised representative of the SDS, ZZS and ZS parliamentary group. Madam Minister, we have in the bill a similar way to what is regulated, but the problem that has been respected by colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic will likely come to an end. We'll start closing those insanitary dumps. Many such dumps in Serbia. We need to take care of maintenance. I just want to support the intention and, say, the problem they've seen, even though it's not their environmental focus. And at the invitations of the minister, we would very much like to respond, but every week we have some legislative proposals and as responsible MPs we want to try to participate in debates that are not in our focus of interest. So, sometimes we can respond to the call, but we follow other legal proposals when they enter the congregation, and then we spend the most time there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50221	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50222	Thank you. Do I have two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50223	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50224	And I just had two minutes ago, so I took the opportunity to answer the previous MP, Mr. Jovanovic, because I didn't have time in that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50225	Madam Minister, you may have in advance that some amendment, if you think you won't have enough time, but you can't go back to the amendments that have already been discussed. So, please, you're confusing us, and then the MPs come forward. You need to talk about the amendment that's under discussion. Maybe something you think you should say in some of the amendments that are just coming, and there we can kind of see through our fingers, but you can't go back to the amendments that have already been discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50226	I understand. I felt it was important to answer more questions about the previous amendment. If I was wrong, I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50227	You can only do this in principle debate, you can't do it by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50228	As for Mr Pavicevic's amendment, it is not accepted. This letter error will be corrected in the legal technical order. And those who need to work after us should have their part of the job and do it safely. As for Mr. Karic, he did not ask for any clarifications. So I'm taking another chance, since this is the last amendment, to thank everyone and to say for this law that we have achieved a high level of consent, it was indeed a quality discussion. As far as local self-government is concerned, we'll fight them in the next period. We have prescribed penalties, we have prescribed deadlines for what they must do within a year, what they must do in two years, and for the future, of course, when we are doing new amendments and additions, and very quickly we will do them, given the dynamicity of the regulations that are changing in Europe, which need to be transposed into our legislation, we will bear in mind what you said today, and we will also react through the new legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50229	Thank you. In order not to confuse the MPs again, this is not the last amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right, Mr. Pavicevic, just an explanation from the minister. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Madam Minister, come in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50230	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50231	I find the minister has accepted the amendment. Mr. Kariæu, at one point you wanted... (Ivan Karic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment of the Committee accepted? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50232	Thank you, Your Honor. How much time do I have as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50233	You have time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50234	This is about a very important amendment. I'm sorry if I'm before Mr. Blazic, maybe he wanted to be president of the board, but which is very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50235	No one answered. The amendment has been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50236	The amendment is also very important to praise the Ministry for accepting such an amendment. The words "and used via the Green Fund of the Republic of Serbia" are added. We have talked here, and the biggest regrets of the Green Serbia are currently about the lack of a special environmental fund, and we disagree again in this concept. We have also supported this amendment on the Committee, and we will support it today when we vote on the law or when it becomes part of the bill. We need to think in some next step about the Fund, because it's of particular importance to manage and protect the environment. I ask you to be braver and more innovative, to think about one green investment fund, which can invest in the environment, that everything that is an economy, which is an electricity business, which is a variety of foundries, irons, factories, waste plants, waste plants, loads and cost becomes the founding capital of a green investment fund, and to show Serbia how to manage waste, with industrial waste, how money is made and how Serbia can only make profits, build roads, add ash as a filler in cement, to add ash as a charger in asphalt, and not to create problems in Obrenovac and Obrenovac children with lungs and that thousands of hectares in Obrenovac stand over 350 million tons of ash that is raw materials, and today is electro-privred spending, is a major problem in the social sector, which is a major problem in the environment. We trust you on the word that this Green Fund is just a call, and it's a good thing that recycling and other interested in waste management will be able to get money from the Green Fund, so as much as we can track money flows, but we're talking about money that was intended compensation. These people pay taxes. These people pay their contributions. These people pay all the taxes for their employees and we take more environmental taxes, under quotes, and we spend it unintendedly. We can only spend that environmental tax through the future independent Green Fund or the Environment Fund, just for the purpose of protecting the environment. That's why I believe your word that this is a call from a future fund, but we need to get a special fund as soon as possible, and we need to have a special Ministry of Environmental Protection as soon as possible. We're getting closer to the campaign. Maybe someone can promise us they'll make a special Ministry of Environmental Protection. We are ready to support someone like that one day, but to talk about what is needed in Serbia, about what brings money to Serbia, and to convince citizens that ecology is not a cost, but in the first order of health protection, in the second row, the economy of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50237	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50238	I simply have to comment and say that we are responsible government and responsible people, and what you say now is that you expect a special and new ministry that will only be responsible for environmental protection issues is not in line with what you said about our work so far. We recognized our good results, which were commended by the MPs and the positions and the opposition. I simply don't see why the special ministry, if this is the ministry, has given ten laws, if it has given a lot of practical solutions, if it has provided solutions that are important for the health security of citizens, for air control, for water control, if it has adopted a large majority of the legislation and regulation of the European Union. I don't know what a new organization's about, if this team was good. Of course, I can understand your thoughts, too, but I just don't get it, now you're not in agreement with what you said before. You also disagree with what you say we have a lot of agencies, a lot of special bodies, independent bodies, that money is being spent, and when we say no, we're going to work within the system that we have, when we talk about the Fund, then you have a remark and a grudge, so we're not going to do something with each other, but good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50239	Thank you. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50240	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50241	I find that the Committee's amendment has been accepted by a representative of the Government. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF COST LAW You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments to the table. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together on Article 4 of the amendment. Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50242	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an amendment asking that the name "main breeding organisation" be replaced by "central republican organisation". It's explained that it's not a fundamental change. However, if we have a basic regional organisation, a normal trail of things is a central republican organisation, which is a character in the regulation and construction of this country. I think a more cellular solution is what we have proposed in the amendment's proposal, rather than the main one. The main one is, let me say, more of the coloroquial name for associations, not for associations of which is the founder of states. I think our proposal is to call the central, or main breeding organization a central republican organization. I think we should take care of that, because as well as that, other organizations are recognized in the world. What's been going on with us for six years, here's the time to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50243	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50245	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 7th amendment. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50246	Amendment to Article 7. The bill that we have submitted is added in Article 7 a new position that reads - in Article 9(1), which "receives the ministry" is replaced by the words "to which consent is given by the ministry". It is shown in the explanation that this is more legally celery, i.e. That this kind of act doesn't exist, that's not true. Since it's a program that's being made for a certain period of time, that would be given as you've predicted here, it's both unchangeable and in case there's and there's no government. The programmes need to change and adapt and the Ministry is not the one that makes the programme but gives consent to the programme and it can be changed every year. This would require new solutions, and in the legal system, any new solution would detached the solution from the previous one, so we think that it is much more celery that consent, which is given by the Ministry and thus the control role is done, and does not mean that the solution accepts such a programme, because by accepting such a programme creates a situation that it is unchangeable until the solution is changed. If consent is given, consent may be changed and new consent may be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50247	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50248	Thank you. This amendment does not have much to do with the essence of the Law on cattle farming more legal issues, legal services and lawyers say it is given as an act of solution, not consent. Clear, therefore, to know that this question is purely legal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50249	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 8th amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50250	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we wanted with this amendment is to replace terms like a breeder, or performer of artificial insemination with a common term performer of artificial insemination. For our right, Mr. Zarko Micin and Jasmine Obradovic, which is in Article 2nd paragraph 20a, gives us the accepted amendment. the new position added, where it says – the performer of artificial insemination is any legal person or entrepreneur who has an employee of at least one veterinarian, with a valid licence or a solution to the extension of the licence, resulting in the fact that an artificial insemination contractor must be a common denominator for anyone who fulfils certain conditions already prescribed by law. Here, our amendment refuses to explain that the bill stipulates that artificial insemination in addition to the performer of artificial insemination of a legal person or entrepreneur may also be performed by a breeder on the basis of a co-operation contract with an artificial inseminator, if trained to do so professionally, to perform artificial insemination and if he owns a medium professional device, etc. So, with one document, or amendment and a member that we have already adopted, we practically bring this situation down to the level that if there is a good will of an artificial insemination performer that meets the conditions that he can hire someone else for whose jobs he answers. The fact that you refused our amendment practically results in anyone doing a contract between this other performer, and there is no responsibility for that job. We think it's illogical and that it's contrary to the law on the implementation of animal health matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50251	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50252	We have provided the possibility through this legal proposal that the breeder can carry out his own artificial insemination in his flock, provided he has the appropriate qualification. Qualification is prescribed as a secondary agricultural or secondary veterinary school, means a diploma of completed secondary education in these two schools and, of course, additional training or additional education, and with regard to the appropriate certification. So a breeder in his flock under the supervision of a performer of artificial insemination can carry out this measure himself. Which is why we suggested this solution. First of all, because we have problems in practice. So, in certain villages of Serbia, it primarily refers to villages in the south, in the east, central Serbia that are simply distant, which are at high altitudes, away from these centres where we have veterinarians. There's a problem. The breeders come to us and tell us that by the time the vets get to them, all those optimal lonely deadlines pass. In view of all this, we did not want to blindly adhere to the rules in Europe, we stick to all those measures relating to hygiene, transparency, etc. but we wanted to help our cattlemen who can practically not easily reach the veterinarian and easily overcome the problems they have in practice. For this reason we gave them this opportunity, but of course under these conditions, therefore, medium professional preparation, training, or education, supervision of performers of artificial insemination. So that's what we are now practically responding to the demands of our cattlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50253	Thank you. Dr. Marinkovic, you want to go back to the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50254	A brief explanation. Madam Minister, this is not the general question of who performs artificial insemination. This is about surveillance. If the law stipulates that an artificial insemination performer, which is the one referred to in Article 2 of point 20a, is at the end of the line. He certainly hired any of these you listed to take responsibility for their work. That's why we didn't think we needed to define precisely. The manufacturer may also be a craftsman if he is trained, but if someone wants to accept responsibility for his work, this keeps good practice, preserves the health condition of life and controls the ability to pass on certain diseases. Without that, it's impossible to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50255	Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 16th amendment. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendments to Article 17. Thank you. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 18th amendment. Thank you. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 18th Amendment with correction was filed by MP Marijan Risticevic. Thank you. Parliamentarians of the DS Group jointly submitted the amendment to Article 19. Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment with the correction were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50256	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 19, and we have been given the explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the same article has already been accepted by the amendment of Members of Parliament Jasmine Obradovic and Zarka Micin. But that's not what this is about. It was not accepted by this amendment. Our wish is, no one disputes the right in exceptional cases that someone is involved in producing seeds for artificial insemination and uses it as part of their procedure. What we wanted with this amendment is that this one has to be registered for that job. The reason for this is that the manufacturer’s registration implies a permanent control of the health correctness of the procedure, which is controlled twice a year, permanent control of the produced seed which is controlled by the batches. It prevents one disease, a disease that they don't need to know because they don't control, they can pass on to their operation, and thus threaten others. This doesn't essentially change, they don't lose the right to do it, but they have to be registered for it to be controlled in doing this work. It is the obligation of all the centres involved, and so should these personal, or internal centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50257	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50258	Thank you. We have fully understood your explanation of the amendments you have provided and in writing, but we have now not accepted this argument for the reason why we have accepted the explanation of MP Rističević, who is more comprehensive and comprehensive at the assessment of our professional services. So it fully covers what you've said, but it's an even more cellular solution that he's offered.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50259	Thank you. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50260	I thank you for your understanding, Madam Minister. However, you did not essentially understand, a certain right to do business, products, and obligations arising from the job. By giving someone the right to do business from both Article 1 and Article 4, they fulfil their health status, you did not give them the right to produce and put something like that on the market because they do not exercise control of the seed. He's just doing animal control. This would create a register of those who produce it and thus prevent various corruption measures that are done by giving and selling to locals and avoid the possibility of contagion. Believe me, I'm right. You didn't regulate it, and it's not a more cellular solution and you'll see it later, but I'd like to help you have complete control of what's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50261	Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 20th amendment. Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50262	Thank you. Because of the Raska area, I am obliged to explain this amendment. Ms. Minister and members of the board were unhappy the day when the helicopters fell and they had the requirements of the herdsmen to do so in areas with difficult working conditions for the loners who had passed training and who had qualifications to carry out the insemination, to get the right to do so alone with their cattle, given that there are a table and a few villages in the devastated area and the amendment is specified that they can only do so if the authorised performer permits what was the case in Novi Pazar. Because of the people and cattlemen who live in this area who are very sensitive for various reasons, I was obliged to explain this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50263	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. (Miroslav Marinkovic, from the post: I wish for Mr Risticevic's amendment. This was Mr. Risticevic's amendment. Did you want to talk about Mr. Risticevic's amendment? Here you go, then. I'm sorry. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50264	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully support the argument, and I think that a comprehensive solution like this is for certain areas, parts of Serbia, which, due to conditions of time or bad infrastructure, cannot receive adequate health care for the preservation of animal health, i.e. No vets come, and even using these artificial insemination services, and that's totally fine. However, what we also wanted to help with our amendment to Article 20 is that since we are talking about the register in which the artists are enrolled, we have...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50265	I thank Mr. Marinkovic, you have no more time. You spent it. You had 45 seconds. You can finish your sentence, but please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50266	Let me just finish my sentence. The point is that those who already have a right to insemination under the Veterinary Law to enter the register. I think that's completely justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50267	You no longer have the time of the parliamentary group. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 21st amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 26th amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50268	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me not forget, you are the most important because you should pass this on to your fellow citizens who sent you here. Our wish was that in Article 33. We add one position to the bill by which the register of indigenous breeders is established and the register of guardians of the genes of indigenous races. The bank is one story, and what it is to preserve genetic resources is a completely different story. It means that for all kinds of animals a bank of genes is formed. For certain species, genetic resources are stored. So say the Bush race, which is the indigenous race of the Republic of Serbia and some surrounding countries of the former Republic of Yugoslavia, is one of the races that served as the basis for the meliorization and acquisition of the most productive races in Europe and the preservation of that race is important for our country, especially because it is ours. Fortunately, the Stočar-Veterinary centre has 5,000 doses of seeds that it stores and, in your explanation, says that it has already been regulated to store the gene bank. However, in this way we and these others who have managed to preserve, and if you didn't know about it, we would have included in the register and thus have the right to do so. We preserve genetic resources essential and representative to our country. Our goal wasn't to disable others, but to gather everything that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50269	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50270	Thank you. When it comes to the amendment that you have submitted, which refers to the indigenous races of domestic animals, I would like to say that we, as you said, have already explained that the Law on cattle farming, the previous law, included indigenous races, and not only did we well understand them through legal acts and treated them well, but we also do so in practical action. The Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection allocates significant resources identified by the breeders of these indigenous races. Because the indigenous races are actually the best genetic guards, we know that well, but not to speak very professionally here, since probably our MPs wouldn't like to listen to our expert debates. So, the preservation of indigenous races, the register of indigenous races is arranged, there is, it's being kept, precise records are being kept. This law also introduces the register of breeders of indigenous races, allocates funds, and for many indigenous races we have managed to prevent them from disappearing completely. You know that on the path of total disappearance, not only were the well, but also the noon beef, but also the oatmeal and various strains, the bows, we manage to simply stimulate our breeders to cultivate them, to preserve them, because without that kind of approach, we couldn't even talk about modern races today, we know that as experts on this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50271	Thank you. Mr. Marinkovic, you're out of time. (Miroslav Marinkovic: Just one sentence, please. I have no reason to give you my word. Members of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party's MPs jointly submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party's MPs jointly submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group together submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Zarko Micin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milija Miletic submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50272	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with colleagues, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I would like to thank both the government and the agriculture ministry for accepting my amendment. I think this is the right thing to do in this way to help, by adopting this amendment we have the opportunity to help our people, as you said earlier, in the mountainous area, where there are a lot of people, but there is no way the veterinarian can go, so there is the possibility that by adopting this amendment we can provide a farmer who will be able to complete the work for the needs of further reproduction, and normally it has to be that the farmer, with the consent of the competent ministry, or the minister, must lead his employer, to know how it is done and how it is done. On the other hand, it is also accepted that the term "sperme" is now termed "seed", which I also think is good and I am sure that by adopting this amendment, as well as other amendments that we want to improve this law on livestock farming, because we are witnessing that the need to invest much more in livestock, that it is necessary to do so by local self-government, that the competent ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia do so. I thank you once again for adopting this amendment, and I'm sure we'll have the opportunity to give everyone together the advantage of the profession, here the vets will do their job. I would also like in the coming period to put much more emphasis on the country, on agriculture, and especially on veterinary services, on veterinarians, on veterinary workers, because I think they are one of the pillars of bearing our agriculture for animal health, and where animal health is, there is human health. Thank you again for adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50273	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we are in the end, I am obliged to say that the government should do everything it can to benefit the cattlemen. The period behind us was very unfavourable for livestock. We've lost 800,000 cattle from 2000 to 2012, we've lost a million and 100,000 pigs, we've lost 500 thousand sheep, we've lost a billion euros a year, when we take it to the value of living scales, processed, we've lost two billion euros. Let me just plastically describe what I didn't count - on seven million chickens, how much less we had in 2000, we lose 500 thousand euros a day in egg products, unprocessed, seven million chickens is five million eggs a day, worth 500 thousand euros, times 365 days, so look at the loss, 180 million euros, and it's unworked. If processed, it's a far greater sum. I thus showed in a plastic way what a crime was committed during the previous period towards agriculture, especially as regards livestock. The SAA and sanctions of Russia and Europe are also of no use to us, but I think, given the incentives we give, that we will first and foremost preserve the existing stock fund, and in some future period, all together, I say all together, help to increase it and return to what it was until 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50275	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Mr. Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50276	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment we have submitted and it refers to the time of implementation of this law. What I would like to say is that a special recognition for the development of livestock should be given to a veterinary service that, in danger of contagion and injury, has managed to preserve the stock fund, which is not in the number we want, but that requires serious agrarian policy to preserve it. If it hadn't been for that, there wouldn't have been this many numbers, because we know that we're surrounded by various diseases in countries bordering us. What's very important, what I want to point out, is that the preservation of genes is not just the preservation of live animals, the preservation of genes is the preservation of their sex cells that allow their application to be unlimited in time and space. I don't think that was very much used and she didn't realize. I believe that in some near future government programmes should go towards stimulating the use of more quality genes, the use of those institutions that have been dealing with this for decades, more than half a century, and that have serious recognitions and recognitions primarily in the surrounding countries. We need to know, too, that Serbia is the third European symental country and we do not need to look, as people often like to say – to find hot water, because we know where the solution is and where the path is to go. I would like to thank the Minister for her understanding of certain amendments, and above all for the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who submitted amendments in the same text, and made it possible for those inconsistencies that figured the documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50277	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word has a minister. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50278	Thank you. I just want to thank you all. I would especially like to thank the President of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the President of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, as well as all MPs who took part in the debate on these extremely important laws in the area and the protection of the environment and agriculture. All of you have contributed by your discussions, your proposals, to your suggestions that we present these laws to our public in the best possible way. This is also an opportunity to thank you for all the support that we have had as the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment from you and in the months behind us, so here we are now getting a little closer to our second anniversary. If it hadn't been for such good co-operation and your understanding, surely we wouldn't have been able to boast today of 22 laws in 22 months. That's why I thank you all. I thank you for your constructive suggestions, and I believe that after a while we will all boast about what we have done, what we have done, and what we have done with those foundations that we have set for future jobs, projects, future activities both in agriculture and in the protection of the environment. It is true, the National MP Marinkovic is right, we have all contributed, and our experts in the field of agriculture, and in the veterinary field, and in the area of environmental protection, all MPs and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you all once again, and I hope to see you again in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50279	I thank you, Madam Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all the MPs. I thank you, Madam Minister, for you and your cabinet members. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, 19 February 2016, with a start at 15 hours and 30 minutes, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 5th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-19-0.u50280	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 133 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on the Protection of Life Centres I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – five, there are no abstentions, of the 139 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, has ever voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group of the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for one thing, but 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has no one to vote against, 147 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has no one to vote against, 147 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has no one to vote against, 147 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was filed by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – five, against – 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has no one to vote against, 147 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by the Social Democratic League of Vojvodina parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention, for four, none of the messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, in general. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – three abstentions – no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Moving to point two. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 147 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 147 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – one who is against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 146 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – one who is against – there is no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 146 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 147 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 146. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – five abstentions – no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, eight, and 139 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against two abstentions, has ever voted 145 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 138 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: no MP voted for – 143 against – five abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill on amendments and additions to the Waste Management Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cattle farming, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – five, abstentions – no, no, four MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 151 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, has voted with 149 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 151 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 MPs for – five against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 5 of the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 147 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 MPs for – five against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 8th of the amendment with a correction, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 147 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 MPs for – five against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Democratic Party submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 150 MPs. No amendment accepted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 149 MPs. No amendment accepted. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 146 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 146 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 17th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 17th Amendment was submitted by Marijan Rističević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned—no one voted 152 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 18th amendment, with correction, was filed by Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 19th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150 MPs. No amendment accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS - submitted an amendment to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 147 MPs. No amendment accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - four, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 148 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 21st Amendment, with correction, was filed by Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 29th amendment, with correction, was filed by Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. Member of the 33rd Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned—no one voted 152 MPs. No amendment accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZZS - ZS submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - four, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 148 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned—no one voted 152 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned—no one voted 152 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against no one, abstentioned—no one voted 152 MPs. No amendment accepted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. A member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned—no one voted 151 MPs. No amendment accepted. The 41st amendment, with correction, was filed by Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150 MPs. No amendment accepted. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150 MPs. No amendment accepted. The Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS - ZZS - ZS submitted the 53rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 148 MPs. No amendment accepted. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that the adoption of several amendments to the text of the Bill of Law had led to the situation of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of these amendments, gave rise to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment agreeing the amendments adopted to each other, as well as the text of the draft law. For this reason, I am setting a break of eight minutes and I am asking that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately, and that the necessary amendment, i.e. the report, be submitted. I ask the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs to proceed with the work. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. You have been presented with the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 49a be added after article 49a. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 139, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – three abstentions – there are none, there are no MPs who have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cattle farming, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – three abstentions – there is not, not a single MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on cattle farming. We're going to make a decision on point 5. I would like to put to the vote the draft law confirming amendments to the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the cross-border context, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I would like to put to the vote the draft law on the validation of amendments and additions to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on February 17, 2016, pointed to a violation of Article 103 at 1619. Rules of Procedure. Please state whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against five abstentions, has voted for 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016.
