ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 175 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 186 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for further work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session, in addition to the MPs and candidates for the prime minister and members of the government, also: the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia, representatives of religious communities, the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, representatives of the Assembly and the Government of the AP Vojvodina, the Director of the Security Information Agency, representatives of the City of Belgrade, as well as other high and respected guests who are following the meeting today from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Let me greet them on your behalf and on your own behalf. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened today's special session within a shorter period than the deadline set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to elect a government within the legal deadline, to end the process of establishing the highest state bodies and after the parliamentary elections held in April this year. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the first special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, I have determined on the basis of Article 121(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly D n e n e d: 1.Selection of the Government and the swearing of the President and members of the Government. Before we begin work on the agenda, and according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly, as I said in my opening statement, to select the Government as soon as possible. We're going to work on the agenda. You have received a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, which is in agreement with Article 112 paragraph 1 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. You received the agreement of Alexander Vukic, a candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. Also, you received a motion for a decision to elect a government with biographies of government candidates, submitted by Aleksandar Vukic, a candidate for Prime Minister. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the conditions have been met: that the candidate for Prime Ministers should present to the National Assembly a programme of the Government and propose the composition of the Government, to open a search for a candidate for the Prime Minister, a programme for the Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government, to determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers without portfolios in the Government, on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, and to elect a Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President and Minister, to appoint members of the Government before the National Assembly to take an oath. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, MP Radulovic. You have to log in to give you my word. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I don't have a card. I'm sorry, then you're not here, then you couldn't sign up. We haven't had such a case yet, that an invisible messenger who isn't in the O.R. is reporting for word. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u917	Your Honor, Madam President, I'm advocating a violation of the 86th century. 1st and 2nd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 86(1) states that the meeting of the National Assembly shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly by written means, at least seven days before the date specified for the start of the session and in paragraph 2. - a session of the National Assembly may be convened within a short period of time than the term set out in Article 1, with the President of the National Assembly obliged at the beginning of the session to explain such a procedure. You said you called the session on such short notice that the Serbian government would form as soon as possible. However, it is entirely contrary to the parliamentary oatmeal that the session is scheduled for 24 hours on such an important matter, and three and a half months after the elections we have welcomed the moment to even come to this session. A month ago, Mr. Micunovic was charged with a coup because he took a break in the session, and then a month after that, nothing happened. Such a delay is harmful for Serbian citizens. It's a shame we waited three and a half months for farmers, it's harmful for investors, it's harmful for scientists. We practically have a technical government, and 24 hours earlier it's an extremely inappropriate deadline. If we had waited three and a half months earlier, it would have been appropriate to have received the government's composition within seven days, a proposal for a government programme. It's too serious to play decor like this. This is Parliament. Members of Parliament are the holders of sovereignty, citizens are the holders of sovereignty which have passed on to MPs and therefore we insist that this session be postponed and that an appropriate deadline be given to prepare MPs, that an appropriate deadline be given to make adequate remarks that will improve the work of the future government. In this way, we do not have conditions for serious parliamentary work. The MPs represent only the scene, they represent only a group of people who applaud the candidate for Prime Minister, or the prime minister, and do not participate in any way in political life.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u918	Thank you, MP. Article 86, as you yourself have concluded, I have given the explanation necessary for such a procedure. We were established from June 3rd to June 6th, so there was really enough time and the public was aware that the prime minister would be Aleksandar Vukic, to prepare for the discussion. I also looked at how it was done in the earlier periods around the appointment of this session, and it was mostly the same way as it is now. You'll hear the exposés. There is no obligation to write an exposé, but verbally. It'll be a combination of both. We will certainly take a break so that all MPs will remember once again the words of the prime minister and we will continue to work on the planned course. If you insist, we'll vote on Article 86's injury. Boyan Pajtić, from the place: Yes. I thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u919	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97. Madam President, this session is actually scheduled in an inappropriate way that 24 hours after the appointment we have today the beginning of the session, without written material, with an announcement that this material will have over 100 pages. We are not familiar with its content and therefore it is very important to get double time for its discussion in addition to the start of the session's investment. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group requires that the time for discussion be double, so that all MPs, so that all MPs' groups participate in the debate and so that such serious material that we have received, here, two minutes before the start of the session, which has some 130 sides, I believe, there are also many details in it, are properly studied and properly qualified, and there has been a serious debate on it. So, the least we need is for Serbia's future, for the proposals put forward in this exhibition and for the plans and programmes of the government, but also for what the opposition has to say and what proposals constructively yes, we think there is a double time to discuss, so that we can contribute to Serbia's coming out of such a major crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u920	Thank you. Your motion to extend the debate is premature. I have to open a debate to suggest that something be shortened or extended at all. So that's premature. Remember what you wanted to suggest. When that moment comes, I will certainly help you repeat that proposal, so that we can vote eventually. So, Article 97, I couldn't hurt you because you were a little hasty about it, and the rest of it, about having a session, it's all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, don't worry about anything, I'm the last person in this country who's going to break something. As far as the procedure is concerned, we've done everything right, and you've even got the exposé before you've even got the mandate. So, you've all got now, I hope you'll have enough patience and desire to listen to it orally because there will be a lot of clarifications, as far as I could mediaally send the terms of office. I assume you'll use these few hours to listen to his exposés. The length of the exposé is not limited to anything. When you prove otherwise, I will react. If you want to vote, but don't vote on Rule 97 and hurt the Rules of Procedure, you can't answer now because this is just my explanation, we'll vote, but it's a legal nonsens to vote on something that you've proposed prematurely. Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, candidate for Prime Minister, to present to the National Assembly a programme of government and propose its composition. Here you go. The word has a candidate for Prime Minister Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u921	Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, honourable MPs, guests, Your Holiness, Your Excellency, Honorable citizens of Serbia, I would also like to thank the former Chancellor of the Republic of Austria Alfred Guzenbauer, who is here, Prime Minister of Romania Viktor Ponti and Frank Fratini, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Italy. I am honored by your presence and this speaks a lot about the reputation of Serbia and the respect Serbia enjoys today. Today I am in front of you not only because of the formation of a new government, but because of something even more important, today we all put together a ladder and answer the question of how much we can achieve. Today we are testing our options and our limitations, checking whether we are as small as the country or we can be great, whether we will succeed in climbing or slipping back to the bottom and finally what is most important – whether we are able to move the borders in this country, the limits of our opportunities, the limits of our work, our education, the limits of our vanity and our reconciliation with what we are and how much we really can. When we answer all this, we will answer the most difficult question – are we dealing with this business, politics, because of us or because of Serbia and the people living in it? I don't want to remind you, but we've all been chosen for them, not for myself and personal interests. We were chosen with this task, to be responsible for moving the borders and raising the scales, to do something for our country. When I say that, I don't avoid my responsibility at all. After all, I am the one who opted for the policy of constantly raising the scale with the same motives that Sergei Bupka raised his own, claiming that the sport he deals with loves just because he's so responsible himself. I have no intention of doing this job when I can't do any more, to climb up more and win along with you more for this country. We decided on this job, I'm sure, not just for the sake of fame, but for the responsibility, for the results of work and responsibility, because of this country where work and responsibility are needed more than ever before. I remind you of the times in which we all live and the challenges that are ahead of us and who are growing and bigger from day to day. I remind you of the burden on our backs and the rise we need to master to climb to the top. Lastly or first, I remind you of a commitment that we have all made before Serbia and its citizens – that we are better so that this country is better and that people live better in it. Besides, we all talked about this better life before the election. They believed in some of you more and some less, but they all demanded the same thing, to keep their promises. Bored and fed up with people in Serbia to be at the bottom, to be no-one's recorders, to be in denial, to give up their dreams, to lag behind, to be ignorant, to be incompetent, and to be powerless. They've had enough of the fairy tales they've been told, the myths they've been fed up with, the promises they've been covered with. That's why they've been looking for work, which is why they've agreed to heavy measures and savings, so they've submitted the sacrifice, convinced, I'd say, finally, that a better life is possible only with a terrible effort from all of us because nothing from the sky is going to fall. If I'm satisfied with everything we've done in the previous term, then that's exactly the change in what's called collective mentality, the one that showed that people in Serbia want to work hard and hard and the one that proves that we're not people, citizens who are satisfied with little ones, who want nothing but living at the base. Serbia began to work because it discovered a clear goal, wished for the top, and not for that warrior who was struck by the bloody flag of victory, wished for a peak that was reached by knowledge, work and effort, one that was reserved for greater and better than us, the one on which the flag of success was soaked with sweat, not anyone's blood. It's the tip of knowledge, the tip of progress, the tip of industriousness, the one that comes only if you beat yourself, if you break your own limits and stop doubting your limits and agree to change yourself. We've partially succeeded. We started and changed Serbia, we found her goals and priorities, and after a long time we have a result that we can praise. We have every reason to be proud of our country and the people who live in it. No more moving backwards, no more going down, no more falling down. And for that, we got this mandate, not to let it go and not to let Serbia ever go back again. I know that there are people here from different political options, that many people don't like what we're doing, at least ourselves, that you're fighting both us and me and that you want to replace us, but that's why today I'm telling you all clearly – Serbia and this government, the government that we're forming today, we'll never give up, just don't count on it, anything else is possible. And, first I'm going to accept every conversation, I'm going to accept every proposal, I'm going to support every peaceful form of protest, and I'm going to express my opinion and attitude, but one and only I'm not going to -- I'm not ever going to let this country go back again, I'm not going to go off the road that it's going to take, and we're not going to stop. We want to achieve that flag of Serbia's success at the top and be confident that we will do our best to do so and not because we are stubborn or because I am stubborn, and I am, we have a more serious reason, Serbia has it. We just don't have anywhere more than just for the better and for the front. One of the most famous Greek philosophers, Herakit, said, nearly two and a half thousand years ago – man never set foot in the same river twice, because it is not the same river, nor is he the same man. Indeed, that thought is perfectly appropriate and today as I stand here in front of the National Assembly for the second time proud, proud of what we did in the previous period and I have earned this people's trust to present to you, to my colleagues and to all the citizens of our great country to this government. A little over two years ago I stood in the same place, but now I can quite honestly say that today Serbia is not the same. Today, dear friends, many of us are not the same, I am not the same man today. Then Serbia was on the verge of collapse, the country in recession, the public debt was completely out of control, more than 26% of the workers were unemployed, our business reputation was among the worst in the region, and there was a concern that we could not meet the obligations we had towards pensioners, workers or creditors. There was a real danger that for our country there would be no future, that the abyss made up of years of bad management in the economy, robbery in the public sector, irresponsible privatisations, corrupt politicians and lazy officials would simply choke everything. I remember looking at old and young families all over the country, losing hope for the real existence of our country. Today, dear MPs and citizens, there is not the same river in front of us, we are standing in front of the second river and in front of a different Serbia, not as we would have wished completely, certainly in front of a different one. Not all the trouble behind us. The bright future is still something further. I wouldn't stand here and lie that life in Serbia is much better for everything today than before, but the waters of our rivers are clearer and cleaner today and we can definitely see through them that our countries are standing on tighter feet. We have managed in the past two years to bring stability into the country and to lay stronger foundations with hard and hard work. We were able to remove a huge burden from our shoulders that threatened to break us down, we managed to give the people confidence that our country had a future and that if we work hard with a united force we could unite around common goals. There are those who don't appreciate the stability that has been achieved, as if she had come on her own. Let's just raise our heads and take a look around ourselves at other countries in the region of Europe, on the nearby continents and see how valuable this stability is. I know we're used to moaning, we're used to crying over our fate, but if you compare the fate of Serbian citizens today and the fate of many in the environment, you'll agree that we live in peace and stability and security, and I wouldn't say much worse. Stability of economic, regional and political conditions for new investments, without stability there would be no foreign investment, there would be no domestic investors who would decide to invest money elsewhere, not in their own country. In the period from 2014 to 2016, 124,000 new jobs were opened, almost all in the private sector, where business people decide on employment rather than party officials. All thanks to the stability we have succeeded and to create and what is even harder to preserve. Over the past 27 months, I have attended the opening of 38 new factories or plants in Serbia, which is more than one factory a month. This means tens of thousands of jobs, and those jobs are pulling more jobs in the cycle of economic growth, and we could do so thanks to stability. And more than that, a stabilised currency and low inflation for which, besides the Serbian government, are in many ways more than the Serbian government, the National Bank of Serbia and its governor, means that families across Serbia can plan their monthly and annual budget. They can think about the future, not worrying about turbulence or financial disasters. Many countries and much more developed than us have hit the disaster, Serbia has been bypassed, not accidentally. It's a huge change in the way people live and all thanks to stability. Stability brings us international reputation, respect for our country, which is able to manage itself, which is independent, which is sovereign, which is believed to be a reliable partner with its friends. It opens up new opportunities for investment from regions and Europe and around the world, allowing American funds to be interested and invested here, the largest Chinese companies to decide that we too are the starting point for European business ventures, and that exports of Serbian products to Russia, after two years of stagnation and decline, are growing again. Serbia is becoming a significant regional factor, all thanks to stability, among other things, because unlike others, those who are much worse than us have not competed and talked and repeated as parrots that we are regional leaders. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, stability is the first necessary step towards the future. Stability is a cement that we managed to build into the foundations of our house to strengthen it. Now, dear friends, the time has come for us to start this house quickly and build, because stability isn't enough and we can't leave things here where they are right now, we can't and we won't stop here. We'll be bold enough to have dreams. We won't be afraid to look up. The previous government has achieved stability, the new government will work even more hard for prosperity and progress. Responsibility is a word linking stability and prosperity which is a key task for the government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens and MPs, the plan of the next Serbian government is to ensure prosperity for all its citizens and to raise the standard of living to ordinary people and families across the country for the next four years. Besides, I'll remind you, when I last answered the MPs, they told me that we would have twice as much pay as we had in the previous period. I'll tell you that today we have bigger salaries than we had back then, but thanks primarily to the growth of wages in the private sector. In the public sector, you will see later from the programme that I will present both police officers and members of the defence ministry, therefore, our armies, both in the social and health sectors and in the education sectors, can expect further pay increases and certainly not small pay increases. It is our duty to give young generations the opportunity to have a better future, to build elements of an appropriate and decent European society and to give people the hope they deserve. In the next few hours, I'm going to be over ten chapters, I'm going to cross ten chapters, and I'm going to explain exactly how we want to do it, but before that, I owe the people the second part of Heraklit's sentence, something that's personal. Two years ago, I took office as Prime Minister, with all the power and energy that a man can carry inside him. I knew that sometimes I had a discouraging task that would certainly require all strength and full commitment. I knew that in front of me and across from me the forces resisting change whether they came from the government or from the outside, whether they were from the country or abroad. Not everyone wanted success or government, not all wanted success and not all wanted Serbia. I am convinced that those who want the success of our country are sitting. At the same time, I knew that every sign of ours and my weaknesses were used by those who wanted Serbia to lag behind, who didn't want Serbia to change and who wanted to enjoy and the privileges that were held for years at the expense of the public. I also knew dear citizens that I would have to defy every criticism, not to be willing to compromise and withdraw, all in order to implement the difficult reforms that we have made in a way that will allow changes to happen. After all, I know that all citizens or almost everyone cursed me when we made decisions on fiscal consolidation measures, but today, despite these brave and difficult measures. We have arranged public finances, we have security in our public finances and today we can safely plan to increase payments and salaries and pensions in the future, to create ourselves a moment in which we will do so and even through consumption increase the growth of our gross domestic product, not just through investments and exports, as we did in the previous year. I knew that only a few people, even from a party I run, even some of the ministers, shared the depth and depth of change and the reforms we wanted to implement. I felt that I had to stand upright even if my voice would sometimes be the only one for a generation of our people who wanted to shake this country and turn it around by almost 180 degrees. Sometimes I was strict, probably arrogant, sometimes too fast in the answers I gave to those who questioned the way we chose to lead the country. I know it seemed like I was taking a lot of responsibility for myself and for that, but also for various political reasons of a completely different nature, I'm not surprised they called me a dictator, a tyrant, an autocrat. Remember, however, that is the majority of those who enjoyed the tremendous privileges built at the age associated with state public money. However, I can honestly say that these criticisms are not something that just passes by me, that they don't promote my ear and I don't pay attention to them, I follow them, I hear them, I listen. I'm not blind or deaf, I'm paying attention and I'm looking to change as much as possible. But after the strong political support our government won in the April elections, I have the feeling that more and more people share our position when it comes to change, that this coalition for change, above all of us, our habits, our customs, if you want our traditions to grow and that support for reforms is expanding. And so, as I enter my second term as Prime Minister, I want to say that my intention is to be even more open to criticism and objections in the national four years, and I will try to be more kind, which doesn't mean that I won't be confident enough and strong enough to respond to everyone if they serve insults, slanders and lies. I will never, ever give up, fight for Serbia, fight for the government, for every member of it who respects the laws of this country, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and who works in favour of the people of Serbia and all other citizens of Serbia. Only democratic free and open Serbia can become modern and offer its citizens a better life, as well as any other normal European and not only European country. The political framework in which Serbia's government will work and move is complex and complicated. On the one hand, we are faced with tectonic global disturbances in world politics, a partial change in the balance of power, economic imbalance between those with the greatest political and military power and increasingly frequent local and regional conflicts with a significant impact on world policy. In these conditions, especially after Bregzit and the failed military coup in Turkey, while fierce conflict and major forces in the Middle East and other parts of the world are becoming more difficult and more complicated to lead Serbia's policy. Also, in the region of a particular country, for which I will not say anything bad and nothing ugly like Croatia today, they open old wounds through the rehabilitation of NDH and its protagonists, openly threatening the security of Serbs, of course the Republic of Serbia. It is not a simple and slightly easy situation in relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is particularly difficult to make the latest statements by Sarajevo officials and not process those responsible for committing the most serious crimes against Serbs. Our message is very clear on that, too. Those Serbs who committed crimes, we will persecute, we will prosecute everyone else in our territory, we will prosecute everyone else we know has committed. The only thing we're looking for is that criminals, regardless of nationality, equally respond, that everyone's eyes are equally valuable and that everyone's life is equally worth it. We are not asking that Serbian life be worth more, but we are asking that Serbian eyes, such as the eyes of Slobodan Ilic, who was killed in the village of Zalazia in a criminal way, are as worthy of the eyes of both innocent and Muslim and Croatian and Albanian and all other victims. In its answers and the protection of national interests, Serbia has tried to react and will always respond in the future in a sober, serious, responsible, non-controversial manner, with a fundamental goal of maintaining peace and stability. We will always do so, we will create conditions for better relations with both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we will also know how to protect our national and national interests from all those who threaten these interests. We became aware of the interest of the process of turmoil, and we began to accept them and to adapt to them, of course, always being careful not to lose the dignity and integrity of whoever we were talking to. And we discovered this new word for "talk." We've stopped having pointless conflicts with ourselves and everyone else. We accepted that they had their own interests, we remembered that we too had our own because much or long or who knows how much time we forgot it and started talking about it, with everyone, with those we love and with those we don't love, with those we owe and with all who owe us, with those who understand us and with those we never understood. This new Serbia has come out into the world and that world has accepted it. We became the center of development and stability. We have attracted investors, and do not forget that last and this year in the region, we have attracted the most convincing number of investors and foreign and domestic, so that only, respected MPs, knew the situation, and we continue to criticise ourselves, we want, we expect and we believe that we can do much more. We had no privatisations last year without one, based, serious and large privatisations, we had a billion and 850m euros in investments, and, say, Bosnia and Herzegovina which, you will agree, is not four or five times less than us, it has 400m euros in territory or per capita. I'm not saying it's good, but certainly much better than everyone else in one difficult time in which it's terribly complicated to attract foreign investors and provide them with the best possible conditions. That's another thing where there's no more going back. Our path is peace, dialogue and development. We know very well, we learned very well that misery comes with wars and that there is no progress until cannons are heard. Of course, we will protect and defend our country and be able to do so if anyone dares to attack our country and our people. For factories, roads, schools and hospitals for investment and new jobs, Serbia needs a stable Balkans. She needs a region without conflict, she needs understanding and dialogue. We are prepared because of this goal to invest much more in our own understanding of all around us, in accepting all of their interests that are essentially jeopardizing us, with a common effort to find a solution. We're ready to discover everything good and beautiful in our environment with our neighbors and offer them all the good and nice things we found in our neighborhood. And as I said before, we're willing to invest in their painful memory, just as much as in ours and to accept that others can't forget, just like we can't. We count that this is the first step towards the day when we'll all remember everyone and when we'll all respect everything, when that common memory will serve us for a merger, not for a discord, and when we'll all know that once and for all we've learned that bloody lesson, and so much so that there's no longer a shred of opportunity to repeat it. Anyone who forgets this in the first place our obligation, the obligation to work in peace, stability and greater understanding, will work directly not against the interests of Croatia, Bosnia and Montenegro or any other, but against the elementary interests of Serbia. It will work against life in it because it has also shown us recent history, the war in the environment produces the kind of problem in Serbia itself that makes life impossible in it. Don't forget that we fought regardless of its justification or not for the national goals of our people in the environment in Serbia when we led her in the wrong way and not as smart as we do today, paid with misery, hyperinflation, shortages, rows, closing factories. We've paid her here with our lives almost to every extent that Serbs in the environment have paid her with their lives. Of course, after everything that's happened today, we can justify ourselves in various ways and deal with conspiracy theories and find the culprits in history, great powers, world injustice, but that's not our job. It's our job to look at, among other things, where we are and how we've made mistakes and not make those mistakes again. It is our job to understand that peace, stability and dialogue are necessary and necessary for every member of our people, but also for all other peoples and to realize that without their progress and development there is neither ours nor ours, just as vice versa. Such an understanding is Serbia's policy and it will remain and the policy of this government and anyone who wants to change it will have to change that government first, because that path that's being drawn, we won't leave, we won't go back, we won't leave this country for some new generations at the bottom, and we won't all fail together. By taking this mandate, we also assume that obligation to be the biggest and most difficult obstacle to anyone who wants to destabilise Serbia, play with peace, push it down and stop it from developing. Now, I would ask you all to look together at all the specific areas in which the new government intends to take steps and bring about the change we need over. First point 1. - Serbia that protects and protects its independence and Serbia that cultivates good and traditional relations with sincere friends in the world. I've been reading to you on purpose points so that you can follow where we are, and my Expose is much longer than the 130 pages you've got, but I can see that some of them didn't even care. I'm sorry. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We got 60, probably half. No, you got the table. Not only did you not get the whole thing, I prepared it, because I worked later and thank you for the remark, so I put it somewhere around 260 pages. Will I be able to read everything, will I be able to say everything physically, of course we have the right to do that because it wasn't our... (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Should we write it ourselves? Well, I guess you should follow, Mr. Seselj, what I'm saying, and then write something, and then in the debate. Of course, these are the basics for you to see what it is that we did. Since I haven't seen any of them leave the O.R., I want to thank you guys who are here in the National Assembly Hall, because that's what it says about them. The people also chose them to listen to the exposés of the prime minister and to make remarks afterwards, but today the citizens of Serbia see well and unequivocally that they have neither come to hear nor listen. While I worked day and night, and while the team worked day and night, they came for two minutes to sit down, take out an insult without a card, go outside, go to the restaurant, pick up the diary and finish their job. We'll work hard. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: No diaries, the diaries have been lifted. Now, that, Mr. Seselj, was one very smart decision, which we've abolished your diaries, so you can take less to the people than you do nothing. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I suppose the power takes away the people, not the opposition. Well, it's time you didn't throw away, and time, and money I'm afraid at this point that they were taking someone else. And those who work, especially those who work hard and who work consecratedly, in the interests of the people, seem to give and bring to the people, and there are many who carry, but we will talk about it tomorrow, I am convinced, with many arguments on both sides. The new government's main task is Serbia's progress in each sphere, with a fundamental goal of improving the standard of living for all its citizens. The growth in the previous period was achieved thanks to increased exports and investments. Future investment will be affected by the dynamics of EU accession. Accordingly, at the start of the mandate, intensive consultations should be made at the highest level between Serbia and the EU on an ambitious, informal calendar of opening and closing all 35 chapters, and on the basis of this plan, each ministry would be obliged to carry out its activities. At the level of the government, the implementation of the plan should be quarterly. De facto is about the concreteisation of the EU's national accession programme. The objective should be to close all negotiating chapters by the end of the government's mandate in 2019. Of course, it's not just up to us, but unless we set ambitious goals, we certainly won't be able to achieve it any less. I would like to say to all the MPs that in everything that I am going to say in the coming period and in the coming hours, perhaps many may not be particularly interesting and the text is dry, a little bureaucratic, but I deliberately accepted that we do so in such a way that people can see how serious and responsible we have come all this work and how respectful we approach Serbian citizens when we address them, wanting to show them what we are really doing and what results we want to come out of everything. As you can see, unlike those who couldn't sit for two minutes, it won't be hard for me to stand and speak for hours. The other side of such an initiative, I am talking about the EU, say that dynamics are not up to them, but our argument should be that we want to make such a calendar and such a programme and that we assume our commitment to implement our obligations from that calendar on time. EU membership as one of the government's strategic definitions speaks of Serbia wanting to see in the club of democratic states of the continent. If 28 European countries could, today they want 27, so can Serbia. Today, we don't have time to analyze why we're in the last membership car and why we haven't taken better advantage of the last decade or two, when the timetable was a little bit more intense. And this time I will say responsibly before you – the path to EU membership will be filled with political challenges, but the challenges will not be measured by who sets them, but by the effects for our society and for our citizens. And what we are doing is not because we have an idolatrous approach to the EU, but because we are thinking about the interests of the people of Serbia, the Serbian people, all of our citizens, and in line with this we will also behave in the future. Our relationship to European integration did not rest on euphoria, but on responsibility, truth and real opportunities for Serbia's progress. Serbia's progress is not and will never be measured by the number of open chapters, but by the number of job openings and improving citizens' living standards. The number of open chapters will be a criterion for us to be good at achieving the most advanced standards of the modern world, which EU standards certainly are. In my previous exposé, I was thrifty on promises when I spoke of our European pathway. I didn't use that word or those two words as a mantra, not today either. I said then that among the first chapters, we could open Chapter 32 on financial control and we did it. I said we'd work hard at opening chapters 23 and 24, and that's what we did. Of the measures provided for in the Action Plan for Chapter 23, these are the judiciary and fundamental human rights, only in the period from the elections scheduled and during the technical government, around 40 measures have been achieved. We thus proved the credibility of our work. We have also proven that we are working not to please anyone or anything, but to improve the situation in one of the most important segments of our country, which the judiciary certainly is. As soon as the government is formed, we will prepare a new, detailed plan for bringing national legislation into line with EU law. This document is known as the National Programme for the adoption of EU legal flows. As you know, we've set the scale as high as anything we've ever done. This scale is located at the end of 2018 and early 2019 and we want to welcome it to the greatest extent in line with the rules we are talking about. How have we been doing so far? If it is judged by the European Commission itself, given in the 2015 Progress Report, which is the best for our country so far, and at this point we have not to say the best, but one of the best assessments in the region. The report states that we have recorded some progress in almost all areas, meeting policy criteria, adopting legal standards and achieving economic development based on competitiveness. Otherwise, we have met all the criteria for the economy and the IMF and the World Bank and the European Commission. No remarks, in certain areas we have had objections, but in this area, a key area for the standard of living of citizens, we have not literally had one single remark in the business that we have been doing. Chapters 23 and 24 are open in June and we continue to work hard in all areas of the negotiating process. We are also ready to open Chapter 5 on public procurement. This chapter is also very important because of the continued systemic fight against corruption. At the time of the Presidency of Slovakia, which began in July this year, we will be ready to open new chapters: 25 – research and development, 25 – education, youth and sport, 13 – fishing, 14 – transport, 20 – entrepreneurship, industrial policy, 21 – trans-European networks. We also work on chapters whose opening needs to meet certain criteria, such as freedom of movement of goods, that is one, three – freedom of movement of services, 11 – agriculture and rural development, 15 – energy. I would like to point out that regardless of the dynamics of the opening of the chapter, we are already today recording significant positive effects from the current status of our relationship with the EU. These positive effects have been seen in many areas. These are: foreign trade with a focus on exports, education and investments. Trade and European integration, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, a contract with the EU that allows Serbia to export goods on the market of half a billion consumers. Then I will also talk about our cooperation with the Russian Federation, our cooperation with the People's Republic of China, the United States and everyone else. Serbia is most exporting to EU member states and those who want to become those, which are CEFTA members. It goes to the EU 63.6% and to CEFTA 21.1% of our total exports. That's what people in Serbia need to know. So the region plus the EU equals 85% of our exports. The debate is welcome, but it's always important to talk about arguments and numbers. The government's policy is not divided, the policy is divided into those for Russia and those for the EU. There is room in the government's policy, above all, for those who are for Serbia and for excellent co-operation with both the EU and the Russian Federation. For Serbia, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is of benefit, just as we want even more benefit from free trade with Russia and other countries of the customs union there. I find it perfectly rational that on these issues we have a minimum consensus or I have a simple answer for all those who would like to question it. Just try to pay your pensions once for a million and 760,000 pensioners, try once to pay your salary in the public sector and ask you -- from whom are you going to take those taxes and contributions, from whom are you going to charge them, who are you going to export the goods to if we behave politically unpragmatically, politically irresponsiblely and politically irresponsiblely, and if we manage our own emotions, sometimes because of someone's political decisions? We would only lead the country to the edge of the sun, to the edge of the ambis, and I fear that we would leave the generations that come without a future. Compared to the year 2008 when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, this is data that tells you something about the importance of Serbia's political action, especially from 2012 until today, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed by 2016, we managed to break the trade deficit we have with the EU. In addition, it states that the coverage of exports at the end of 2015 was 77.18%, while in August 2012, it was 59.68% of export coverage. This shows, of course, how much we have, above all, foreign investment and EU countries that have re-exported these products to EU countries, of course, and the growth and progress of domestic investors who have found a favourable market in the EU. In exports, the main foreign trade partners in 2015, looking at individual EU members, were Italy with a billion and 946m euros, in health care 0.7% compared to 2014, Germany with a huge growth of 503.7m euros, in health care 13% compared to 2014 and this growth is growing from year to year, also Romania, Croatia and all these countries are growing. In imports, the main foreign trade partners are members individually: Germany with two billion and 31 million euros, in health care 11%. It is good that our export growth is slightly greater than the growth of imports. We'll try to track it. Italy billion and 732m euros, Hungary 781m euros and Poland 685.2m euros, with a 7% reduction compared to 2014. Serbia's biggest surplus in trade is with BiH, Montenegro and Macedonia. Interestingly, you will understand with certain countries and because of the Fiat that we have a surplus of trade with Italy, Romania, Bulgaria and even Hong Kong. We have the biggest deficit in trade with China, and due to the large imports of mobile phones and laptops, above all, with Russia due to oil and gas imports, we will come up with a special topic with Russia to see what we did, why today is a slightly better situation than in the previous two years, and then with Germany, Hungary, Turkey and Switzerland. More importantly, it is a change in the structure of our exports to the EU. Our most important export products are no longer our primary agricultural products, as was the case before, but industrial products. For example, by 2008, the most important export products were raw materials and semi-products, while in 2014, 2015 and 2016 they were finished products, primarily produced by automotive and electricity industries. We have kept mostly the same level of exports of our agricultural, primarily food, vegetables, and textile products with partial growth in grain exports. Foreign trade statistics clearly point to a direct link between the countries where the largest investors and the countries in which we export the most come from. The largest investors come from the EU, the EFTA state, the United States, along with Russia's Gazprom as the eighth largest investor in Serbia. Also, when you look at the ownership stake of 15 companies that are the largest Serbian exporters, 12 of those 15, so 80% is owned by majority foreign capital. Further expectations and priorities in the store. One of the government's basic objectives will be to further diversify trade and economic co-operation in order to make even more effective use of all the free trade agreements that we have concluded. We also expect the fruits of the very stimulating investment policy of the Serbian government. At this point, since we, of course, have insight into what's going on in other countries, what's going on, when I'm talking about other countries, I think about countries in the region, as we know what's going on with us and what's waiting for us, where the contracts are signed. I think we have more, if I haven't made a mistake, Ivica, foreign investors at this point, as we call it, in "paplain" than everyone else has combined, and this is the result of the stability that has been achieved by the citizens of Serbia and the security of investment. We expect to continue to grow in positive exchanges with CEFTA signatories, in particular we want to increase growth in our trade exchange with Albania and, accordingly, we will soon have new political talks and agreements with Albanians and try to secure an even more significant trade exchange and an even greater surplus for the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the growth and development of our society, we are inevitably talking about investment. The development of a number of sectors, primarily the processing industry, the arrival of China's Hestil in line with EU rules on state aid and an expected even greater inflow of EU investment, are the result of our work, but we expect, of course, an additional inflow of investments from the Russian Federation, the United States, the stability we so insist on, the arrangement, the improvement of the investment environment. The obvious link between the process and European integration, the growth of investments, is evident from the fact that only last 2015, of total foreign and domestic investments, two billion 111m euros, a billion and 530m were originating in the EU, which is 72.4%, and that should be accounted for by all. We observe, support the headquarters of the corresponding company 78% of the majority foreign capital company is originating in EU member states, 19.9% from non-EU countries, mainly from the EFTA countries and the Russian Federation. Eighty-five percent of employees were employed in majority-capital companies originating in EU member states, 17.9% from non-EU countries, 68.6% of the value added in these companies is originating in EU member states, 30.6% from non-EU countries. The largest added value among non-EU companies created by NIS in which Gazprom is, of course, the largest shareholder. Much of the work we're going to do will be good capital for generations to come. We will insist on investing in education and professional training of young people. As you know, I insisted on that in the regional frameworks and through the establishment of a youth office. We started to make these things concrete. With the help of the EU, we do so under the Erasmus Plus programme. We're good at it, but as good as we are, we can't know until we compare ourselves with others. Although Serbia is a partial user of this programme, we managed to achieve the highest participation in the Western Balkans region between 2014 and 2016. During this period, a significant increase in the number of users of scholarships for academic mobility is noticeable and applies to students, teachers and administrative staff. According to the Tempus Foundation, which works to implement the programme during 2015, 1430 youth departures and arrivals have been approved in Serbia, which is slightly less than half the number foreseen for the entire Western Balkans region. Out of this, 900 outgoing scholarship students are assigned 50% of the scholarships received, and the rest is intended for the mobility of teaching and administrative staff. By signing a contract to join the Horizon 2020 Framework Programme or 2020, the Republic of Serbia has functionally joined the EU in the field of science. Also, by empowering the Tempus Foundation to decentralisedly implement the Erasmus Plus programme, all formal conditions for closing negotiations under Chapter 26 – education and culture have been met. The seven countries signed an agreement forming the Southeast European Education Reform Office based in Belgrade, making our capital a leader in education reforms in the region. With all this in mind, it is no wonder that the European Commission's latest annual progress report on Serbia for 2015, among the four chapters assessed by the highest score of 33, are all three chapters in charge of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Then we'll see what the measures are and what we have to do to change ourselves and that we can set ourselves up and, above all, respect the market. Financial and technical support of the European Union. As we have dealt responsibly with the money of our citizens and taxpayers in the budget, disciplined, responsible and serious and today, so on August 09th, the Republic of Serbia has a surplus in the 19.6 billion dinar budget, which has never been the case since there was a multilateral system in the Republic of Serbia. That's how we treated the money coming from the side. Since 2001, Serbia has received support from the European Union for over three billion euros in grants. From the amount mentioned in the IPA Funds from 2007 to 2013, about 1.4 billion. Since 2014, Serbia has had a new instrument of support for the European Union IPA 2. This instrument will support sector reforms: transport, energy, environment, competitiveness, human resources development, agriculture and rural development, public administration reform, justice and home affairs. Over the past two years, the annual programming processes have been successfully brought to an end, with the defined programmes and grants projects totalling 400,000 euros, which is more than the indicative amount allocated by the European Union. While the maximum amount of funding in the 2014 annual programme is set for flood prevention and recovery, 62,000,000 euros from the IPA National Programme and 10,000 euros from the multi-user programme, the biggest amount of funding for 2015 is allocated for public administration reform - 80,000,000 euros, through sectoral budget support and traffic - 65,000 000 euros. I would also like to say that in 2014, for the first time as a candidate country, we have successfully applied for EU Solidarity Fund funds to recover the resulting catastrophic May floods and provided an additional 60.2m euros to be carried out in the area affected by the May 2014 floods. At the end of last year, an application was submitted for the management of IPARD funds. These are the European Union's funds for agriculture and rural development to allow the use of already allocated 35,000 euros from the total estimated 175,000 to 2020. I mention it all, the European Union's grants. In the first phase, support is expected for investments in the physical assets of agricultural holdings and the raising of processing facilities. What is important to us is to preserve peace and stability, because these are the fundamental values of the European Union. Serbia should be a really loud talker of such alliances in other parts of the world, and that is our vision for the future. Some say that we have to choose between Europe and Russia, and while strengthening our trade exchange and connection with Europe, Russia and I cultivate not only historical ties that have been built by many generations, but also look at how and how to improve our economic and trade ties. Our progress on the EU integration plan will not be driven by reckless euphoria but by an appropriate and serious budget of its own national interests at all times. But people need to know that it's our idea and our desire to belong to this society because of the kind of society we want to be part of. Foreign policy The Serbian government will continue to run an active, clearly profiled and designed foreign policy that contributes to a better positioning of the Republic of Serbia on a regional, European and wider international plan. As in the previous period, focus will be on strengthening the international position and reputation of the Republic of Serbia and, in this context, on intensifying bilateral dialogue and co-operation on a multilateral plan with countries around the world, as a permanent and efficient promotion and realisation of Serbia's external priorities and interests, primarily with the aim of speeding up EU integration and preserving the country's territorial integrity and sovereignty. The affirmation of the Republic of Serbia as the hub of regional co-operation, constructive, strongly committed and actively engaged in improving relations in the region and in deepening and concreteising co-operation in regional frameworks, both in bilateral and regional initiatives and mechanisms will be one of the priorities of the Serbian government. In this context, the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia will be of special importance to the Black Sea Economic Co-operation Organisation, and since 1 July 2016, we have taken over from the Russian Federation the six-month chairmanship of this regional organisation that has a marked economic potential, especially in the areas of energy and transport. During its presidency, the Republic of Serbia will seek to realise new ones continue to advance existing projects, as well as contribute to the development of diversified co-operation between countries in the wider Black Sea region. The Republic of Serbia will end its presidency by organising a meeting of the BISEK Foreign Ministers' Council, as we say in December of this year. Regardless of the numerous challenges and the current non-simple situation, the Serbian government will continue its sincere efforts to promote good will and healthy relations with all countries and governments in the region based on mutual respect and a definition of a common European future. We pay special attention to the development of good neighbourly relations and co-operation and hope that our efforts to address remaining open issues and create a better atmosphere in regional frameworks will also be recognised by these countries, as well as by European institutions and all other international actors. Also, the Serbian government will continue to engage in the preservation of the rights and interests of the Serb people in the region in accordance with international law standards. In this context, he will continue to develop the closest relations with Republika Srpska, respecting the Dayton Peace Agreement and the will of all three constituent peoples of BiH. Relations between the Serbian people's political leaders have never been better, based on mutual respect, respect and joint action in achieving Serbian national interests. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. For the first time in modern Serbian political history, we have made an unwritten rule and leaders in Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska and members of the Republika Srpska government, in some way opposition leaders, the same has happened with all those who represent Serbs in other countries in the region, that we never say a single word about either of them, that when we agree on something that we meet and solve these problems and always come up with a common position, a united attitude in the interests of the entire Serbian people. You have never been able to hear or hear from me, nor will you hear me speak any bad word publicly about Milorad Dodik, but neither Mladen Bosic nor Mladen Ivanic, nor about Milorad Pupovac, nor will you hear them say any bad word about the Republic of Serbia. All the opposite of what we had just a few years ago. It's a new rule, it's a new Usus, and it's something we can be proud of today. Therefore, you can also see representatives of the Serbs from Croatia and representatives of the Serbs from Republika Srpska and representatives of the Serbs from Macedonia, Montenegro, from everywhere in the former Yugoslavia who talk to everyone and who sees how and what they can do for the benefit of the Serbian people, wherever that people live. The government of the Republic of Serbia remains committed to promoting good bilateral relations and co-operation with other influential factors in the international community such as the United States, as well as with our traditional friends and partners such as the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, Arab countries, and other nations and countries around the world. Our commitment to the development of friendly relations and economic and other forms of co-operation with countries around the world is by no means in a conflict with the definition of Serbia to be part of the European Union but a complementary dimension of our foreign policy engagement. Our friendships in the East and the West are our wealth and our strength and they do not change the fact that Serbia was, is and will be part of the European family of people whose foothold is common values and civilization achievements. That is why Serbia wants and will build the best relations with the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, the United States, but it will also do so with Korea, Japan, the UAE and all other countries significant and not always significant, but those with whom we have built friendships for centuries and decades in political and economic co-operation. The new Serbian government should do everything to improve economic relations with the Euro-Asian Economic Union, with one and with BRIKS countries on the other. In these countries, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan and BRIKS, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa, all the companies exported goods worth only $820.00,000 or only 0.27 cents, about 30.31 per consumer. In doing so, all five BRIKS countries are members of the G20 Council of the world's most developed countries and own as much as $400 billion in foreign exchange reserves. I'm talking about this because it's one of the problems we're facing and something where we haven't been able to achieve the right results, not always because of our guilt. We had problems with the stability of the Russian national currency, today it is settled and so look at the exports of the Republic of Serbia to the Russian Federation in the first six months of this year. It comes back to the level of 2013 when we had nine times as much as our exports, and it was only 79,000,000 euros in 2001. It's things we can do and we have to change. Good and friendly relations with the Russian Federation, which is one of the cornerstones of both these alliances, can be a good starting point for institutional improvement primarily of economic co-operation on mutual interest, without entering deeper integration. Serbia's economic potential for co-operation with the countries of the Eurasian Union is enormous because Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan are the world's largest gas producers, oil, sunflowers and sugar tails and among the world's largest potatoes, wheat, meat and cement producers. However, this co-operation should not only be based on energy and agriculture trade, but also on many other development infrastructure and transport projects, from road construction, bridges, railways and ports, thermo and hydropower plants, airports and sports facilities. It is huge and has not yet used the potential to attract direct investment in Serbia. With good projects and organisation of the countries of the Eurasian Union, in Serbia's infrastructure and agriculture over the next 10 to 20 years, billions of dollars of investments from those countries with which Serbia has extraordinary political relations based on mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty could be brought together. Russia is our traditional partner and friend, and as a symbol of continuing our cooperation with impatience, I also await new joint projects. We believe that we will also be able to address the issue of exporting cheese and other dairy products, as well as exporting our "Fiat" to the territory of the Eurasian Union, but also to achieve co-operation in all other social areas, and therefore we look forward to visiting Russian President Dmitri Medvedev with impatience. In the previous period, we can especially boast... Russian Prime Minister, I apologize if I've said anything else since I was tired. In the previous period, we can especially praise the intense relations with the People's Republic of China, which is one of the world's leading economies. For our country, it is of great importance that China has shown great interest in the development of our not only political, but also economic relations and is ready to invest in Serbia. This was especially contributed by the historic visits of China's president Si Gipping and the People's Republic of China's premium, our friend, Li Kecango. It is agreed that successful co-operation in the coming period will receive a new, additional acceleration of co-operation in all areas of economic and social life. There are intense conversations with Chinese companies, and this is very important because when I heard it almost impossible to believe it, and in these areas we can get a partner like we got for "The Iron", about future co-operation with Petrochemia, RTB "Bor", on air traffic co-operation and further investment in the area of infrastructure. Later when we talk about public enterprises, you will realize that at least two major Chinese companies are strategically interested in taking over, among other things, Belgrade Airport, but there is a tender procedure and it will be fully implemented. Whoever wins and offers the best conditions will be able to win. We are extremely grateful to our Chinese partners for our investments in "Zelezar Smederevo" and strategic projects in the area of infrastructure, from the Belgrade-Budapest railway, Corridor 11, the "Michajlo Pupin" bridge in Belgrade, etc., in the field of energy and other areas of strategic co-operation, and we expect the right results from Kostolac 2. Our strategic commitment is also a close and good co-operation with the United States that we managed to achieve in the previous period. The results of this co-operation are visible in the economy, especially through co-operation in the areas of industry and information technologies, and are an example of the companies "NSARS" and "Telekiar". We are equally committed to all other forms of bilateral co-operation and the development of good diplomatic relations, and that as Serbian Prime Minister, I had a number of important meetings with US officials during several visits to Washington. I am pleased to announce that one of the first visits to the new government will be the visit of U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden. The Republic of Serbia will continue, through its engagement in international organisations and multilateral forums, to the extent of its opportunities, to contribute to the preservation of international peace and security, including through the engagement of representatives of Serbia and UN peacekeeping operations and to continue to work with its partners in the framework of the EU's common security and defence policy. National security. Under the conditions of changed geopolitical and geostrategic relations, the issue of national security... I'm gonna have to do something. I've taken about 8% out by now, which would mean up to an hour or so before I had to read. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: We will get the Pampers diapers. ) You may need those Pampers diapers, Mr. Seselj, they're not for me, but they'll bring you someone if you miss them. Don't worry about it. You can sit down and that's nice of you to sit down. I'll stand. The Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, but thank you for your respect and for the fact that you are sitting in the National Assembly Hall. You know, there are things that, regardless of the fact that we are and how many political opponents you have to respect as a political opponent, as there are things you cannot respect whether or not someone has won the trust of the people. The defence ministry and the Serbian Army made an important contribution to the success of the reforms in the previous period, as well as to bear a significant burden in their implementation. The conditions of strong measures to stabilise public finances have improved the preparation of all entities of our defence society, and the Serbian Army has maintained and partially improved its operational capacity. The defence ministry has contributed significantly to the consolidation of the domestic defence industry, and the dedicated industry will be one of the engines of industrial development and the economy of the Republic of Serbia, and efforts have been made to optimise the ratio of personal, operational and investment costs under defence budgets. The Republic of Serbia is firmly defined for peace, strengthening co-operation, trust and good neighbourly relations. Achieving long-term peace and stability through dialogue and creating partnership is a policy that we believe and represent and for which we will stand firm. However, changes that took place in Serbia's strategic environment impose the need to modernise key security and defence strategic documents, which will result in a review of their content in the next medium term. In doing so, all specificities of the geostrategic position of the Republic, national interests, needs and opportunities of the country will be respected. Serbia, as well as the whole world, is faced with a number of multiple security challenges, risks and threats, and it is not excluded that some qualitative new, different challenge will arise. The security services that operate within the Ministry of Defence will continue, it is VBA and VOA, to monitor very dynamic changes in the international security environment so that, in accordance with our capabilities, we are ready to respond in a timely and adequate manner. Since people usually underestimate the knowledge and activities of our intelligence services, I just want to point out something that our services have learned faster in the past, learned and reported to the competent sister services in the region and the world when certain occurrences occurred, when we faced these phenomena and when we had the Verlasevic case that shot at the US Embassy in Sarajevo, the first to deliver data to the US services on the aforementioned terrorists, were Serbian services, as Serbian services warned in a European town of their counterparts about the possibility of terrorist attacks, I would say, before all the other services. The development of the defence system is a prerequisite for protecting the defence interests of the Republic of Serbia and a successful response to the challenges, risks and threats of security. The planning of the development and construction of the overall defence capabilities of the defence system is based on our definition of military neutrality in relation to existing military alliances and the application of the concept of total defence, which involves integrated engagement of defence entities and defence potentials. A significant segment of the concept, in addition to relying on its own defence potential, is the improvement of partnership and multilateral co-operation with other countries and international organisations and institutions in preserving and protecting Serbia's defence interests. We primarily bear in mind co-operation in the field of defence with the EU, the Russian Federation, the United States, China, as well as the countries of the South East European region and friendly countries. An important aspect of co-operation is engagement in the Partnership for Peace and Participation programme in the EU's common security and foreign policy activities, as well as co-operation with the ODKB and participation of years-long exercises with the Russian Federation. A new strategic review of Serbia's defence has been adopted in the mandate of the previous government, setting out the strategic objectives of the defence system and establishing a framework for achieving a qualitative new state. By the end of 2016, we will propose to the National Assembly a new long-term plan for the development of the defence system, which will set the course of development by 2025. After that, the government will adopt a mid-term plan and programme for the development of the defence system for the period until 2020, in which the positions and definitions of the long-term development plan for Serbia's defence system will be more detailed. The objectives of the development of the defence system will be in line with available resources and present limits, and the proposed measures will focus on removing key problems and achieving basic development priorities. The development of the Serbian Army will be aimed at improving the broad spectrum of capabilities needed to perform various operations and tasks, including asymmetric and hybrid conflicts. Accordingly, timely available forces will be provided for the risk scenarios analysed, as well as an increase in the operational availability of key fighting systems and the fill-up of war material reserves. In the coming period, the Serbia Army will continue its engagement to secure an administrative line with the AP Kosovo and Metohija and control of the land security zone. We will continue to co-operate with KFOR on the security and security of our population in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia's defence system will continue to contribute to the construction and preservation of peace worldwide through the participation of declared units of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations. We have repeatedly proven our credibility in helping the civilian population and civil authorities in the event of emergency situations such as the Serbian Army and other forms of endangering the security of people of property, which we will continue in the future. In the coming period, it will also work to improve the defence force command system in both the state of emergency and the war, which will improve the integration of all entities in the defence system. Special attention will be paid to training the population for defence that will be systemically arranged, which today presents us with one of the biggest problems. In order to improve the efficiency and efficiency and functioning, the optimisation of the ministry and the Serbian Army will also be carried out. It will not further reduce the numerous situation of the Serbian Army, and a gradual increase in the military's contingent on voluntary military service, the number of members of the special forces, in order to create conditions for the further rise of the main defence forces and the strength of the military, or military forces. Of course, I've already said that, we'll give everything, at any cost we'll keep peace, but unlike some previous times when we weren't ready to answer, we'll be ready to respond to anyone who tries to threaten the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Serbia. In the scope of the Serbia Army's equipment and military equipment from 2012 to 2015, the development of over 20 weapons and military equipment, which were introduced into armed and equipment by the Serbian Army, such as aircraft for initial training, field vehicles, modernised radar systems and air surveillance systems, various types of ammunition of improved characteristics and training tools, trainers, has been completed. I especially want to boast of our new special rifle of 6.65 millimeters, which at the shooting that was recently held in the Nikinci proved to be the most precise and best, which was the only one within 500 meters, people who professionally dealt with it, to hit five bullets in the chest, five out of five, unlike all the German state-of-the-art rifles we still use. The Serbian Army's equipment was continued with modern telecommunications systems and electronic reconnaissance systems, and in mid-June, the Serbian Army purchased two multi-purpose transport helicopters from the Russian Federation, the first to purchase new air platforms in the past 35 years. After the successful completion of the internal examinations, the multi-tube rocket system modular “Mova”, broadband radiogonometer and the modernized PVO system “Cub” are submitted to the final studies at the Technical Experience Centre. In addition, the defence industry has succeeded in recruiting internal capacities to achieve the observed results in its own development of weapons and military equipment, which should in particular highlight the third armored vehicle “Lazar”, the self-run top “Nora”, as well as several types of infantry equipment, artillery and mortar ammunition that are of interest to the defence system. The Serbian Army's equipment budget will have a tendency to grow for the reasons of its highly developmental character and direct influence both on the growing capabilities of the Serbian Army and on the growth of the capacity of Serbia's defence industry's export potential. Modernisation of perspective weapons and military equipment will be realised through an increase in the budget for the development of weapons and military equipment almost six times. Modernisation and development of military technology funds will be maximum focus on domestic military and civil research institutions and the domestic defence industry. In this sense, 14 new perspective projects have been redefined and defined to significantly improve the operational capacity of the Serbian Army. If I may, Madam President, ask you, I will now try to convince you a few pages in advance, and that what I have prepared on these 260 pages during the day, and I would also ask my government associates to deliver it to you, that you may also have all those 260 pages that I have planned to read, and it is obvious that you would not read them by morning, that you would also deliver it to them, that they could prepare themselves. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: We are patient. Two days, two days, we're ready to listen. I know, and the diapers are coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u922	Let me just answer that. We will print out everything you deliver, and it will be in the open parliament, so that the MPs will be able to read everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u923	Successively, by the end of those development projects by the end of 2020, Serbia's first phase of domestic development equipment will be implemented, which will allow for the rise of its operational capacity for, believe it or not, about 60%. Military equipment with new weapons and military equipment systems, such as communication and command-information systems and fire management systems, optical, electronic and surveillance systems, tools, artillery, armored combat vehicles, points of increased level, ballistic protection, PSC systems of small range, air surveillance and reporting centres, a new generation of firearms, guided anti-arming missiles, electronic reconnaissance systems and anti-electronic facts and field vehicles will be carried out. The implementation of this policy simultaneously achieves two objectives, and this is an increase in the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army necessary to carry out, but directly, of course, more production in our dedicated industry. Also, I want to praise the results, we have divided 1412 apartments for members of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. During 2014, works on building facilities at the Bezanjska Kosa site in Belgrade, whose construction began in 1992, will address 160 more residential needs of defence ministry employees and Serbia's Vojsca. Through the realization of master plans, it was continued with the sale or exchange of inspective military complexes, so 43 military complexes were sold and exchanged in the previous four years. The total agreed value for the object at 43 complexes is 24m euros. Of that amount, about fourm euros were directly charged, while about 13.8m euros were realised by taking over 141 apartments from local self-government and Serbia's Building Directorate. The rest will be realised in the next five-year plan. With regard to the efficient and transparent use of budget funds, particularly with regard to the reduction of the risk of corruption, the Ministry of Defence received recognition from relevant international entities and the results of Transparency International Anti-corruption Index, which refers to the level of corruption in defence systems published in early 2016, Serbia is located in a group of countries with moderate risk of corruption. Progress has been made in more than 45% of the indicators compared to the 2012 results, when they were in a group of countries at high risk of corruption. According to this study, our defense system is among the 34 best-ranked defense systems in the world. I don't mind when your phones ring, even though it's pretty rude. I don't mind, but I have to tell you it's better to be told by Belgrade and Serbia, not by Moscow and Washington and Brussels, because you are in the National Assembly of Serbia and take care of it. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija remains undoubtedly a major challenge in the new government's mandate. We will not recognise the unilaterally declared independence of our southern province, but in the interest of regional stability and better Serbian-Albanian relations, we will continue the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. In this process we will participate in a responsible and transparent way, and all agreements will be made available to the public as before. The dialogue, its intensification, solutions that are not always satisfied with Belgrade or Pristina, is the only possible way of progress, not only for people in Kosovo and Metohija, but for this dialogue to a significant extent, which all people in Serbia need to know, defines the possibility of political and economic prosperity of our entire nation. Unlike many on our political scene, I am opposed to the dangerous concept of freezing conflicts, but also irresponsible ideas that Serbia should be resolved by concessions that would endanger the survival of our people in the province. the political ballast of Kosovo and Metohija. In dialogue with Pristina, I will continue to participate personally. I'll be there when it's the hardest and I won't hide behind other people's signatures. Leading a responsible policy, we will do everything possible to protect our people's interests, as well as our vital state and national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia will, above all, continue to insist on starting negotiations as property and preserving Serbia's cultural and spiritual heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as establishing a community of Serb municipalities because, for those who do not know, and when they criticised the Brussels Agreement, they did not tell the people that 40%, or six out of 15 points of the Brussels Agreement, were just talking about establishing a community of Serb municipalities, which would have the capacity to have a crucial impact on the better and safer lives of the Serb people in the area. Serbia will continue to be institutionally present in Kosovo and Metohija through its education and health system, through cultural institutions, as well as through the operation of local self-government. I don't have to, I don't think I can explain to anyone in this House what we inherited after the Kumanov Agreement, and in what situation we have to worry about helping our people as much as possible. The Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and then, of course, the aggression against our country, the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija in the coming period should be further institutionally strengthened by the opening of a Serb community, whose establishment of Pristina has long, long been obstructing. I won't say anything in parliament against Albanian authorities because I'm different from them and because we don't need to score political points by criticising others, but someone has to bear in mind that they're attacking us, that we haven't partially reached agreements signed in August of last year, and we're talking about vital, key, basic, first agreement reached in April and a half before the last agreement, and we haven't moved, but dead letters on paper still exist. But the talks will continue, we understand even their internal political relations, but that doesn't mean we won't take care of our people's interests. Our goals in Kosovo and Metohija will be to preserve political stability, continued monitoring of political processes and implementation of established state policies, and to carry out affairs in areas of support for local self-government, economy, economic development, infrastructure projects, return and survival, justice, human rights, property and legal issues, international co-operation and co-operation with international missions in the territory of the province, culture, protection of cultural heritage and assistance to the Serbian Orthodox Church, which I would say is one of the key institutions that helps preserve and survive our people in Kosovo and Metohija, support for public services and social assistance. Sustainable economic development will be more than ever in the focus of our policy in Kosovo and Metohija. What we can praise in Kosovo and Metohija is not the result of the government, this is the result of the struggle for the survival of our people, but that is why we need a greater and stronger presence of our public services in order to provide them with a better life, which is that we have the highest natural growth, i.e. the highest birth rate on the territory of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, in the Serbian environments in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in Kosovo Pomoravlje, so that is a triple, three-and-a-half times the birth rate of the average birth rate in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in general. Also, protecting the property of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija, the property of our business entities and the Serbian church will remain at the top of the Serbian government's priorities. We fought all the time, and we will also fight for the Trepce, the Gazivod, for the infrastructure in Brezovica, although you know how we faced illegal privatisations and acquisitions by temporary institutions in Pristina. What's this all about, so everyone can understand? They were running all the time, but absolutely all the time they were running away from talking in any way about whose property it is, what it is that it is the property of the Republic of Serbia, what it is is that it is someone's other property. Not for a second did they want to agree to talk about it because they brought dozens of so-called. parallel laws that would try to transfer that property to themselves, which is not only property of Kosovo, Serbian or Albanian, it is property and state of Serbia, but it is property and other citizens who invested it. And we have therefore insisted and will continue to insist in talks and negotiations under the auspices of the European Union that the property issue be raised, because the issue of property is one of the essential issues. If we resolve this issue, we have solved a lot and many problems in the future will be easier to solve with Albanians. Several capital infrastructure projects have been launched, such as the regional water pipeline Zubin Potok-Kosovo Mitrovica-Zvecan, the construction of the Banjska complex, which will end in the term of the government. This will give us the incentive to develop tourism, with the desire that the greater number of citizens of Serbia, Serbs from the region, visit that part of our country, visit Kosovo and Metohija so directly strengthen ties with our national source. In the area of agriculture, we have also made significant steps towards creating a system that will allow one number of our country's country's compatriots to live on agriculture, regardless of whether the country is being processed in Gorazdevec, Strpc, Stanishor, Novi Brdo or Leposavic. We've divided a large number of agricultural machines, seedlings, repromaterials, and soon we'll have stable channels for the placement of agricultural products under more favourable conditions. When it comes to the return of internally displaced, there are the weakest results, the level of statistical error. We have also prepared a new concept of socially and economically sustainable return settlements and, as you have seen, this has caused major political problems in Kosovo and Metohija itself. It's "Sun Valley". Albania's authorities are going into a tough fight with something that should bring life and that means life and we don't know what anyone can have against people's lives. There are no military facilities, no police facilities, there are building residential buildings, there are building business facilities, there are building pools, places where people should live and enjoy and nothing more, to be on their own. Dear People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, the government will continue to co-operate in Kosovo and Metohija with representatives of the international community, Unmik, Eulex and KFOR above all to protect rights and create a safe environment for the Serbian people in the province. Without intending to violate the secular structure of our political system, we will step up co-operation with the Serbian Orthodox Church, as a key, not only religious, but also the national institution in Kosovo and Metohija, together fighting for the interests of our people, and against attempts to forge history by Albanianising Serbian historical, religious and cultural heritage. You have seen both the latest cases and the publication in textbooks in both Albania and Kosovo and Metohija that the Decans built Gashi, that our monasteries did not build either Milutin or anyone else from the German dynasty, but that belonged to certain Albanian dynastys. We won't deal with it. That is exactly how we fought and bravely opposed, despite the many pressures that came from the international community, to protect our religious sacral objects in UNESCO. I'm not saying that's the victory we've won for many years, but what's our job is to fight. We'll fight in the future. What I can say is that so far they have failed to defeat us, and that victory would also mean the humiliation of one culture, the culture of a people, the humiliation of civilization, I would say, the demeaning and humiliation of the Serbian people. We will continue to work and organise new cultural events, support institutions, cultural and artistic societies, safeguarding the folklore tradition of our people, continue to work on strengthening the health and education system in Kosovo and Metohija. When I talk about it, I'm not just talking about four northern Kosovo municipalities, so I'm talking about Leposavić, Zubin Potok, Zvecan and Kosovo Mitrovica, but also about Kosovo Pomoravlje, Strpc, so I'm talking about Ranilug and Šilov and Partesh and Pasjan and Donjo Budriga, Novi Brdo, all the places we invested in, from hospitals to churches, and we're not ashamed of it, but we're proud of it. We've invested in schools, we're going to invest even more, as well as in health facilities, so I think at least as far as people are concerned, people will be able to feel safer, safer, and that they can also plan generations that come to their survival on the eternal hearths. As so far, in Kosovo and Metohija, we will continue to provide the necessary social assistance. I want to inform you - the right to this kind of assistance has been achieved by 540 families with 1,512 members, and on behalf of the families of kidnapped and missing persons and single money aids, the right has been achieved by 870 families. In Kosovo and Metohija, 7,536 families live in a constant state of need for humanitarian aid and their existence depends on the support provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Office for Kosovo and Metohija continuously provides and distributes 8,000 family packages of food and 8,000 family hygiene packages for socially endangered families. These are just some examples of the functioning of our social policy in the province, with which we will certainly continue. What we cannot continue with, is that someone gets five packages for one family, five salaries for one man, and if, already as the Republic of Serbia, we allow our people in northern Kosovo not to pay for electricity, then we expect in other areas that the Republic of Serbia will not be deceived, it will respect and give more than its residents in Kosovo and Metohija expect. We only expect respect for the money that all other Serbian citizens invest in these republics. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is much more than the territorial identity issue. It is the point at which Serbia-Albanian relations will be defined in the coming period, depending on stability and the economic perspective of the entire region. Our people and our citizens probably don't know that, many don't like to hear it, but Serbs and Albanians are the two largest peoples in the Western Balkans and the relationship between Serbs and Albanians depends on the future of the Western Balkans. It has changed, it used to be some other two nations, today Serbs and Albanians are the two largest nations. We need to talk about the future, we need to negotiate, because our relationship, the good relationship between Serbs and Albanians is the backbone of relations in the future, and we will do our best to build such good relations by safeguarding the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. What we don't want is for unsettled Serbian-Albanian relations to be a latent threat to Serbia's stability and progress, and therefore we will always be committed to working on a peaceful resolution of disagreements. I also want to say that we will never forget our diaspora, our people who are scattered into about 160 countries. This is now the part about the diaspora relationship. We have a number of diaspora, a people who have moved for centuries and decades and started a new life in other places. The thing that hurts the most is that over the past decade, the entire generations of the most educated have gone away, and we won't be able to stop it even in the next period. From EU countries, you have a percentage greater outflow than that outflow from the Republic of Serbia. From Croatia, which is an EU member, you have a higher percentage outflow and the most educated people than you have from the Republic of Serbia. From Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, too, not only is Romania three times the population of the Republic of Serbia, but there are seven times the number of people leaving, leaving Romania, going to the EU's most developed countries. Of course, it's easier for them today because of the so-called. working permits, which as a member of the EU, but I am telling you that this is one process of globalisation in which the work of people no longer matters where they live. What we want to point out to our people is that wherever we live, we know that Serbia is perceived as their homeland, and we're going to try, there's been countless of these attempts, and every one of them has failed, and I'm already kind of sick and tired of it, but we're going to try to turn to them, so we can show them that we're not asking them for money, that we're not going to be able to take from them and take anything that some others have done before, but that we just want to love their country as they have loved them to date, and if they want and can help them invest the money they made in the world in our Serbia. They and their families and their money are welcome. We'll deal with Serbs in the region and try to solve their accumulated problems. They will always be able to count on our support and help with the fact that we will always respect the territorial integrity of our neighbours. Serbia has already signed interstate agreements with countries in the region that regulate the position of Serbian rights. We're going to ask that these agreements be respected, because it's obvious that in certain countries nothing is respected. It is not allowed for Serbs in the Republic of Croatia, returnees living the lives of normal people, a dignified life, today to have neither electricity nor the possibility of a normal life, and only because they belong to the Serb family, the Serbian people. These problems are piled up, but it seems to me that by investing in creating better relationships, first of all, with these countries we will achieve rather better conditions for these people. What we are going to do in our country, and in a special chapter around national minorities, later on, further to say, is that we treat national minorities always in a good way, to try to make it even better, to make these people feel proud to belong to another family, but proud of being citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think there are no more important things than that and that someone can say – I am proud to be Hungarian, but also proud to live in Serbia. Happy and proud to be Bosniak and also as happy and proud to be a Serbian citizen. As queen, we will do everything we can to preserve the identity of Serbs in the diaspora by investing in the work of their cultural associations, learning Serbian language and diplomatic struggle for their legal status. We will take care of our people in the world wherever they are, and I am grateful to them endlessly, because in difficult times, and that was up to two, two and a half years ago, when we fought with the danger of bankruptcy, the signs that came from abroad literally kept Serbia, or our nose above water, and that's why we somehow could barely survive. We're not in this situation today. I'm not talking about individual cases, as a state we have enough money, we have enough money to single out for other things, and that's why we're going to allocate significantly more funds in the future and bigger within the new government's mandate you'll be able to see for the needs of improving our co-operation with Serbs living around the world. Now it seems to me that we're moving on to a difficult one, now it's hard to assess what's important, and what's less important, to what's the core, I'd say the government's programme and the analysis of what's been done and the analysis of what's going to be done in the next period. It is about macroeconomic stability, jobs, stronger economic activity. The macroeconomic stability is understood, the precondition for all other reforms, fiscal discipline, prices, the course of the dinar. As pillar one, strong and credible stabilisation of public finances and halting public debt growth by 2017. What did we do? As a result of the programme of fiscal and structural adjustment and recovery of the economy that began to be implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous term. Although it has been brought into very difficult macroeconomic conditions, the programme has contributed to reducing the internal and external imbalances that Serbia is exposed to. The global crisis has denied the fact that economic growth, which is not based on sound foundations, poses a serious threat to macroeconomic sustainability. The outbreak of the crisis made it clear that there was a lack of a growth model based solely on consumption and imports. Let me remind you that in the years 2008 to 2012 we had a completely wrong economic policy in which we have just insisted on increasing GDP growth by increasing domestic consumption. That's how we invested in certain tycoons, that's how we got commissions for that dirty job, that's how we took Serbia down, that's what brought it literally to the edge of the ambis. Emergency fiscal measures and reform structures were lacking to address the problem not only of long-term recession but also of debt crises and growing indifference in high unemployment conditions. The alarm situation in public finances required urgent fiscal consolidation measures. It has become clear that the existing public spending structure is unsustainable due to the constant increase in the fiscal deficit and the growing level of public debt participation in GDP. Also, the first effective consolidation on the revenue side was not satisfactory. As a result of a sharp and comprehensive increase in the number of tax rates, there was a deterioration in the collection of tax revenues, especially after the increase and the profit tax which also those who made the decision in 2011, if I am not mistaken, they could not believe that they could bring the chain into poor tax collection. In particular, we haven't recovered in the tobacco sector until 2015, and we haven't been able to recover that part of the market until today, even though it's incomparably better than it was two years ago. In 2015, after difficult measures, and I want to thank all Serbian citizens for that, and for the MPs in that mandate and for all the members of the government who had the courage to accept it and for those who will not be members of the government tomorrow, because it will remain written in history that there were people who are ready to accept the most unpopular, most difficult measures, which nobody in Serbia has welcomed, but these measures have led to today we have a healthier economy than many EU countries, although it is understood, with an unmatched lower GDP, but with an unmatched faster growing GDP and with incomparably less imbalances than they have on the fiscal side. In 2015, we managed for the first time to bring about the growth of the legal market, due to an effective fight against the gray economy. Similarly, it happened with the payment of other tax revenues. After poor initial results in charge in the first half of the year, this trend was completely reversed in 2014 and 2015. The programme of economic reforms that started and implemented the stand-by arrangement with the IMF has produced very serious results, and after years of failed attempts to remove essential obstacles to growth and reduce the structural deficit, implementation of the programme has established a permanent removal of fiscal imbalances. The 2015 budget was brought in line with the efforts to provide the basics for healthy economic growth, macroeconomic stability and sustainable fiscal system, despite the skepticism of the entire domestic, partial and expert public, and I am obliged to thank the individual associations that I expected to be politically against us who helped us, and from the Union of Economists of Serbia and to many others, to many independent economists who were on our side, who knew how important it was to move into these reforms and without their professional support, we would not be able to explain to anyone in Serbia that we were doing great, important and good things for our country. The fiscal deficit was halved by 6.6, and it wasn't 6.6, it was almost 8, because at that time we had what they say underneath the line hidden the various fiscal imbalances from what we'd singled out for public enterprises, for Jellyzara, for many other things. We didn't even count that in those 6.6% deficits. That was about 8% of the deficit. Last year we ended up with a 3.4% deficit, this year it seems to me that in the general state at this point we are at 0.1 deficit, we do not have a deficit in the general state in the republican budget, in the Serbian government budget, I was already telling you, where we are in surplus of 19.6 billion today. So these are impressive results that allow you to see in the next period how and in what way and to increase wages and see what to do with pensions, that pensioners can live easier, and I am convinced that in the coming months not much, but always this stable increase and improvement will be able to feel. After eight years, for the first time today, economic activity is at 2% above the pre-crisis level, so since 2008, we have been falling and destroying our own substance. That is why I am sure that somewhere in the previous 2014 elections, people have managed to think, and then in 2016, to make an additional commitment not to nonsense and insecure promises, but to opt for work and for what are objective, realistic and fulfilling promises. The cyclical analysis of economic activity indicates that after eight years, economic activity is further accelerated and that after a deep recession that was reduced in 2013 and then re-energized after the catastrophic floods that hit us in 2014. In 2015 we manage to ensure the initial recovery of economic activity. We had growth plus 0.8% of gross domestic product. In a fruit-based fiscal consolidation based on both expenditure reduction and increased tax revenues, reform laws, a better investment climate, remember that we have shifted our country's position from 91 to 59 in the during business list. All of this results in a sustained recovery, a more sustained recovery of economic growth and reaching pre-crisis GDP levels in early 2016. Today is the first time we've been able to get past it in two percent after eight years. For eight years, at least two or three years it took us to make up for five and six years of catastrophic economic policymaking in our country. It is good that we have managed to achieve this in such a short time, because as Kim Dehang said - there is no country in the world that has managed so successfully in such a short time to get out of such a deep crisis as Serbia was in. The reduction of external trade imbalances, aided by adapting domestic economy and improving external competitiveness, has continued. A high contribution to foreign direct investment, faster growth in the euro area at the beginning of the year and favourable exchange relations contributed to the strong growth of our exports, so the net external demand was the main driver of the growth of the gross domestic product. The recovery is also achieved in household consumption thanks to the growth of income and employment in the private sector, lower costs of paying off existing loans and recovery of credit activities. The current balance sheet deficit has continued to decrease and, most importantly, it is fully covered by the inflow of foreign direct investment. The successful coordination of monetary and fiscal policy has enabled the relaxation of monetary policy, the gradual reduction of the reference interest rate, while preserving the stability of course and price. The reference interest rate was reduced to the historical minimum of 4%, to remind the 2008 mentioned, the reference interest rate was 17.75% and the average inflation was 11.7%. I think these numbers speak enough. Thanks to the measures taken by economic policy today, we are on the path of accelerated recovery. The EU's Economic and Finance Council praised the 2016 economic reform programme, which the government adopted in March of this year and found a much faster economic recovery than expected, which was fuelled by stronger confidence as a result of the economic reforms carried out, as if further intensification and progress of economic activities as a result of investments and exports were expected. It also particularly praised the significant reduction in the budget deficit in the previous year, which opened the space for the relaxation of monetary policy. Positive developments in the real sector that prevailed in most of 2015 were continued in early 2016. Real growth of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 3.5% is significant beyond expected and beyond our expectations. It makes it easier for me to drink water to get some time. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Would you like a soda? No, Mr. Seselj, I leave you diapers and juice, I don't need anything, not even a chair. A positive contribution to growth has been made by all manufacturing sectors. The increased external demand and high inflow of foreign direct investment in the previous year have positively affected industry growth, while repairing the investment environment and continuing the realisation of infrastructure projects prompted construction growth. In addition, economic activity has increased in a number of service sectors, trade, traffic, hospitality, tourism. In the second quarter, the growth of the economic activity of 1.8% continues, hence, in the period January-June 2016, the growth of the overall economic activity of 2.6% was recorded. I just want to remind you that it was planned at the beginning of the year for this growth to be 1.2%, then the IMF changed the forecast to 1.3, then 1.5, then 1.8, then 2 to 2.5%. That at the same time, countries in the region predicted themselves from 4.2, i.e. 1.8% to 4.2% of growth, at this point none of the countries in the region have a growth greater than 2.1%, which means that in the first six months, although this is not the easiest for us, it is the most difficult for Serbia and Croatia, because these are the two largest economies in the region to achieve such a growth rate. We have the highest growth rate in the region and in Europe at the moment Romania, Poland, do not know a third country that has a higher growth rate than the Republic of Serbia in the first six months. This is something of course not enough, it will have to increase if we want to speed up the standard of citizens to arrive at EU countries and therefore we will also take many other measures in the coming period. The trend of good fiscal results continued in the first quarter, we were already talking about it. To know that the planned deficit of the general state, the planned deficit amounted to 78.3 billion dinars, while the deficit achieved in the first half was only 18.2. After seven months when it's planned to be the same level of deficit, we have a surplus, as you've seen from 21 billion, and at this point on today, to repeat 19.6. With conservative assumptions on the income and distribution side, therefore, I'm always talking about conservative assumptions. I never tell you about better things. Don't forget that we here in the National Assembly have accepted the budget in which I have sought, dear friends, and have received your trust and support, that we have a deficit of 122 billion dinars this year. We don't have a deficit right now and there won't be 122 billion. We're going to go to a budget rebalance where we're going to watch how to distribute money differently because we don't have a negative, we have a plus, and these are already changes in the last two years that are different. In addition to conservative assumptions on the income and distribution side, the general government deficit is predicted to be below 2.5% with local self-governments that cause us the biggest problems, with local self-governments and other non-governmental institutions, and the government of Serbia's budget, of course, is significantly below that. And by the way, the plan was for the general government deficit, so with local self-government to be below 4% of the IMF, the World Bank, the IBRD, everyone would say it was a good result, given what we inherited. The result achieved is therefore, in the past seven months only 95 billion dinars better than planned. Such a good result is due to the growth of tax revenues and has a lasting character, not a temporary one. Tax revenues are higher than the plan for 54.7 billion dinars, 11.7% while non-tax revenues are higher by 18.7 billion, 31.3%. Compared to realisation in 2015, all tax forms recorded growth - excise growth of 22.6% compared to 2015, profit tax growth of 20.2 compared to 2015, VAT growth of 12.1 compared to 2015, income tax of 8.6 compared to 2015. You can also see that the number of employees and salaries in the private sector has increased, the rate of growth of 8.1% compared to 2015, although it was expected that customs duties and due to the rules we have adopted with the EU would certainly be reduced. We're ready to talk. Now here's one news, very important to the citizens of Serbia, especially the poorest, those who have the lowest incomes. We're ready to talk to all the partners in the socio-economic council, the new government as soon as it's formed, we're going to stand up as the government to raise the minimum labour price, it's a 121 dinar today. We'll also talk to the employers that they're not satisfied, but we can do it regardless of what we have and part of the users of the state budget that receives minimum earnings. We have budget savings on the basis of which we can handle it, but we want to make both foreign and domestic investors pay the minimum labour price, because when you raise someone's salary to 22.5 thousand dinars or 23 thousand dinars from 21.5 thousand dinars, that's for him and how significant. Also, I want to address the pensioners and say, I did not say this in the election campaign, but thanks to what they did, and they submitted the biggest and most difficult sacrifice in the previous period, I want to inform them that in the next four-year term, the Serbian government will be able to expect a better and continuous increase in pensions. I'm not saying they're gonna live ideally, I'm not saying they're gonna get much better, but they're gonna get better. They will be better and they will not suffer for their future, and they will always be able to know that pensions are safe, that they are coming right into the day, that not one hour will never be late and that they will always be only bigger, and that the Serbian economy will progress without the public debt growing. Now, that's the difference between those who sold fog and who never, at any time, thought about the economic foundations of the state. The start of the recovery path continues to implement real and public sector reforms will allow us to ensure rapid convergence towards European standards in the coming years. Increasing the share of investment in GDP to more than 20%, further reducing the share of state spending and increasing the share of goods and services in GDP to 60% will allow the cumulative growth of real GDP over the next four-year period, our estimate of more than 13% is conservative. I think that when you look at the fall we had in the period from 2008 to 2012, we can talk economically, unless there is an outside-politicalally different situation, about the golden age of the Serbian economy. Of course that depends on the international environment, because also because of Bregzit, we're going to have slightly lower growth of 0.1% to 0.2%, but we've seen that all the negative parameters that came with Bregzit, we're going to remove our country and prepare ourselves in advance for that impact. I think we are one of the European countries that is very soft and in the easiest way possible to take that difficult blow to the whole European market. The government's priority will be to continue implementing reforms and further reduce irrational consumption, bureaucracy, unnecessary public sector costs, while at the same time improving the overall business and investment environment. The government opened a negotiating chapter 32 on financial control at the Second Intergovernmental Conference in December 2015 and adopted a programme for public finance reform for 2016-2020. For the first time in the Republic of Serbia, a medium-term reform framework has been prepared and adopted, whose actions and actions will improve the public finance management system as an integral part of the public administration and prepare it for effective and effective use of EU structural funds that Serbia will have access to to further co-financing of major development and infrastructure projects following the closure of accession negotiations and obtaining full membership. The reform programme from 2016 to 2020. The government will work to preserve macroeconomic stability and continue to reduce the fiscal deficit of public debt through the responsible management of public finances in Serbia. Our plan is to reduce the deficit to a sustainable level of 1% in the medium term. Maintaining this deficit, I'm talking about the general government deficit, maintaining this deficit brings us to the debt level of 60% of GDP in 2023, so, with today's 72.5%, our plan is that in 2023, the share of public debt in GDP is only 60%, which meets the Mastricht criteria. We simply want to be better than many EU countries. We want to be better and more successful than them. Many of them have huge public debt participation in GDP. That's their concern, that's their pain, and we want to compare ourselves to the best for the future, because we're far behind so we can get there faster. The implementation of the reform measures set out in the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, the Economic Reform Programme, the Public Finance Reform Programme will make a strong contribution to the improvement and management of public finances, as well as to the improvement of the business and investment environment. A hundred days of government. The implementation of fiscal consolidation measures has provided macro-economic and stability of public finances, without which it is impossible to provide the basis for sustainable economic growth. When an arrangement with the IMF was launched, it was planned structurally, when I say structurally means a permanent adjustment of 4% of GDP between 2015 and 2017. This permanent deficit reduction secures first stabilisation, and then reduces public debt participation in GDP. In the first year of implementation, it was planned to permanently reduce the deficit by 1.7%. With complete unity and agreement that it is necessary to return public finances on a sustainable path as soon as possible, we achieved a permanent adjustment in 2015, what the IMF recognised to us from 2.5% of GDP, 38% more than what we needed. Stronger adjustment in the first two years, 3.5% of the GDP cumulative programme, Serbia has provided itself with space to put emphasis on difficult structural reforms that need to be implemented in the next period with less strong macro-fiscal adjustment. The government's key task in the first 100 days is to implement fiscal policy measures to ensure that budget targets are met in 2016. The required structural deficit reduction is 0.7% of GDP. By achieving better fiscal results than planned, we will also achieve a greater structural adjustment of 1% of GDP. The key measures based on the continuation of fiscal consolidation remain on the bulky side of the budget. Rationalisation of the number of public administration employees, savings on all categories of current expenditure, from goods and services to all others, in order to create a fiscal space for public investment, which is beyond necessary to support economic growth. Otherwise, you'll see when we get there, at the Capex, in capital investments, we have better budget implementation on that side than last year, but I'm still not satisfied it could still be better. It's our disease. When the ministers fight for your budget, that everyone takes everything, then you're not able to do it all the way, because it's probably a good minister who's looking for as much money as possible, and it's a good minister who's looking for less money, but what to do, I guess that's our delusion, from socialism left. They're just asking to spend as much as they can, and it doesn't matter what the economy is going down. That's what we're gonna change. To complete and confirm the results of the first wave of rationalisation through consistent implementation of decisions on the maximum number of employees by providing, monitoring and controlling the effects of rationalisation at all levels through an improved register of public sector employees. Prepare and implement a second stream of rationalisation in key sectors of health and education, through plans to reorganise these sectors based on deep functional analyses. To adopt a new law on the financing of local self-government in order to remove fiscal imbalances between central and local levels of government. In order for you to understand, we have a major problem, otherwise, to exclude 10 cities and municipalities in Serbia, and you will see, I am sure, in the debate, we will be able to talk about disastrous examples such as Smederjevska Palanka, Koseric and some others, where people are in charge for the next 500 years. That's where we don't know what to do. For, literally, the next 500 years. We don't know what to do, we pay huge money like the Serbian government, these local self-governments, and with all our paramannases, we can cure them for the next 100 years as the experts destroyed them and destroyed them. That's why we just want to have more control over it. Because, if we don't lie, so you can understand, it's done... That's right, Mr. Seselj, that was exactly the reason when they decided to support some of their municipalities so they could cross the censorship of a particular party, they were wasting everything that came into their hands, and now someone has to return it... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Canak does not believe. Someone's got to get it back. He'll get all the data, as much as tomorrow, whoever doesn't believe. So these are the things we're going to have to make right, if we want to ensure further stability. Amendments to the rules to be implemented at the same time will be made: taxes in the field of property taxation, taxes on holding and carrying goods, as well as the adoption of compensation laws. The new law will introduce a systematic approach on the location of transfers and the arrangement of original and applied revenues and improve the predictability of the system of financing local self-government, the efficiency of local self-government in collecting source revenues, as well as at the disposal of public funds. Improve conditions for local and economic development and the efficiency of the tax system. Establish a vertical balance in the distribution of income and jurisdiction between different levels of state. We're all doing it in agreement with the IMF, the World Bank, because this is one of the conditions. This is our prior action for signing, i.e. to approve the Fifth and Sixth revision of the IMF Agreement. The next task is to further strengthen the tax administration. Consistent implementation of the programme of transformation of the Tax Administration as an integral part of the Public Finance Reform Programme between 2016 and 2020 in order to improve payments and revenues. It is estimated that in 2015. So-called the VAT collection mechanism, and the collection mechanism is an indicator of the efficiency of VAT collection and the assessment of tax ejaculation or complimentary gap, (in English), was 15%. The goal is to reach 10% by 2020. That improvement in charge would lead to an increase in VAT revenues by as many as 88 billion dinars, which is as much as 1.8% of GDP in that period. This analytical indicator records a constant decline after 2008 and reaches a minimum of 20% in 2013. After that, we are slowly moving towards a more significant recovery, indicators of efficiency of VAT collection, and the latest analyses suggest that in 2015 the gap was reduced by five percentage points compared to the recorded minimum. All of this confirms that the first and significant steps in the fight against the gray economy have been made over the past two years, but it is very important that this process does not stop. It is necessary to set ambitious targets which will be measurable and comparable to the results in the environment and the EU. In the first 100 days, the Government's task is to adopt a fiscal strategy for the period 2017. - 2019. It sets out guidelines for economic and fiscal policy for the period 2017 to 2019. The medium-term economic and fiscal policy framework will ensure the successful completion of the programme with the IMF, the last year of the 2017 programme, just to achieve all objectives. I will remind you that the IMF also had a programme in 2011 signed with the Serbian government, but the IMF, as its head, escaped after only 27 days. Whether they were targeted or people fled because of failure to perform any of the tasks, none of the measures, shows enough why we were so unsuccessful or why some people were courting the people before the elections. To court the people, to court anyone I won't, and not to my mind. In 2018, the fiscal policy guidelines will ensure continued implementation of the sustainable fiscal position and continue to reduce the public to a sustainable level. According to preliminary estimates, public debt participation in GDP should be below 70% by the end of 2019, so by the end of the government's mandate. We're on a secure branch, we're safe, with a further tendency to descend below the Mastricht level in 2023 below 60%. A number of additional measures and activities will also be implemented to further reform public finances and improve economic governance. The government will propose to the National Assembly to adopt a plan system law that represents a framework for all overall planning in Serbia and to create the basis for achieving full efficiency in the integration of development planning and capital investment financing into the national budgetary plan framework. An analysis of the regulations will be carried out which are of an impact on the scope, conditions and purpose of public consumption in order to rationalise it. It will work to further improve the programme structure of the budget with a special emphasis on gender-responsible budgeting, determining the volume of spending per budget users. In order to improve public investment management, a regulation on content, method of preparation and evaluation, as well as monitoring and implementation and reporting on the realisation of capital projects will be adopted, which is otherwise very important, because we have so far paid interest only on undrawn funds and agreed funds, hundreds of millions of euros. Because everyone, especially before the elections, to show that he's a good minister, he's making new routes, new railways, new airports, he's making arrangements for everything new, and only the source of the funding is not known. That's where we've had the situation of the previous, whatever you want, years. Then we make a deal for the loan, we don't withdraw the funds, but we have to pay for not withdrawing the funds, because we never planned well enough and because we didn't commit to it. Today it's something different. We've closed most of the holes, but it's still not good, it's still not good. There's a lot of trouble with that. Furthermore, the measures will be implemented to improve the monitoring and analysis of the estimated financial effects of the laws and other regulations in order to allow for a realistic review of the financial effects that will affect the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, i.e. the financial plans of mandatory social insurance organisations for the current financial year and the next two fiscal years. A strategy for development and administration of customs duties will also be adopted for the period 2016 to 2020. It will continue its activities in curbing the grey economy of facial control that carry out unregistered activity. As you know, we've never been able to do that before. In order for ordinary people to understand what it's all about, if you have a hairdresser shop, we could have sent all the inspections from different ministries, but if you're making a haircut in your apartment and you're not even registered as a hair salon, we had no right to enter as a state. So, we persecuted those who, at least in the good part, worked legally, thanks to the bad laws, and those who did absolutely illegal work, were not allowed to look at them, let alone touch them. This has changed the changes that we have made in the previous term, and in the future, we will say, perfecte and make it much fairer and much fairer. The work to implement the programmes financed by EU pre-accession funds will be intensified, so that in addition to the 12 contracts already signed in the first half of 2016, totalling 19.6m euros, additional six contracts will be used to support activities in the areas of traffic, environment, agriculture and the fight against corruption. We will adopt a strategy for further development of internal financial control in the public sector for 2016. – 2020, as well as the implementation of an entire set of measures towards supporting public resources users in strengthening the internal control system and providing internal audit functions and improving the work and functionality of the budgetary inspection. A strategy to combat irregularities and fraud in dealing with EU funds will also be adopted. In order to improve business conditions and achieve additional preconditions for attracting investment, areas of free zones will be expanded: Smederevo, Novi Sad, Sabac and Svilajnac. As you can see, we didn't choose where anyone was in power. On the contrary, we will continue to assist the municipalities and where someone else has a majority, not only those who are the majority here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will begin building facilities for the needs of the company Lir in the free zone of Novi Sad. Also in Smederev, China's Meita Industrial in Belgrade's free zone. Priority will be dealt with by complaints of solutions relating to the realisation of capital projects of public interest, the construction of highways, the railway node "Prokop", the completion of works on the project "Belgrade on Water" recovery due to floods, construction of municipal and energy infrastructure. Activities will continue to prepare the Danube privatisation insurance, the privatisation process of the Commercial Bank, as well as the process of reorganisation and modernisation of the Bank of Postage Savings Bank with the aim of becoming a leader in the domestic banking market in business with citizens and entrepreneurs. The implementation of the strategy's strategy for solving problematic loans, whose realisation has already yielded positive tangible results on the market, will continue. If I'm not mistaken, with 21% of the Jorgen women, we put it down to 18.6%, I just wanted to make sure I remembered right. Thank you, Governor. The first follow-up measure is the adoption of a law on the regulation of the profession of an evaluator of the value of immovableity. Don't let me tell you what kind of problems we're having and what kind of trouble we're having with the administrations of income in the territory of certain municipalities. That's why we can't do anything about it because everyone's scared somewhere and it's best to stay so dead and nothing changes anywhere. So they estimated a barracks in Negotin, you won't believe it at 19m euros. Imagine a barracks, walls estimated at 19m euros in Negotina. You can't get that in downtown Belgrade for anything so much money, but, well, someone's been looking for it. Of course we didn't do anything, of course we turned down a potential investor just because of these laws we haven't changed in time. We will start an independent professional business analysis of the Development Fund, the Export Insurance and Finance Agency and the Serbian Development Agency with the aim of clearly defining their role and improving performance. We expect much from the work of the Serbian Development Agency, it has already shown great and good results, and we expect even more from it in the future. It serves us for key development functions, but also enables efficient management of both natural, hostage and human resources to achieve sustainable economic growth and development. The reform programme from 2016 to 2017, so I talked about the first 100 days of the Government from the corner of the Ministry of Finance, I am now talking about the reform programme from the same angle for 2016 and 2017, strengthening fiscal responsibility and the budgetary framework. We will continue to implement the measures and activities of the Public Finance Reform Programme 2016. - 2020. We will strengthen legal institutional mechanisms to ensure that the results of fiscal balance are maintained. Strengthening these mechanisms will take place through two stages. First, full respect for the rules and the timeframe set out in our Budgetary System Act will be ensured. The budget process in the past has often failed to follow the rules of procedure and deadlines for adoption and adoption. Fully aware that the process of planning, defining policies and their realisation requires predictability and respect for the deadlines set, the reality of us is often, I would say almost always deny it. It will be a great task for us to fully comply with the so-called budget cycle and EU pre-accession. the European Semester. This task will be realised through EU accession negotiations under Chapter 17 - Economic and monetary issues. Martinovic, they're not looking at the phone, I see you on the screen. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Klempo. Mr. Seselj, there's only one thing you should have learned. The physical characteristics of humans are no reason to respect anyone or not. I've got a lot of major physical disadvantages than the clawy ears, and I think knowledge and one's morals and one's responsibility and one's industriousness is much more than your nose and your ears. I'm afraid you'll have a hard time mastering it. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I did not say that his ears were clamping, but that he was klempo. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u924	MPs, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u925	I think what you're throwing says a little bit more about you than about him or anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u926	Ambassador, this has come out of the box of disdain. Please allow the MP to continue the exposés. Please don't communicate with the prime minister like that in informal communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u927	He's right, Mr. Seselj. It's my fault that I responded to his misdemeanors and achievements. No more, I apologize to all the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u928	Thank you, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u929	The coordination measures will contribute to further strengthening financial discipline in the public sector, strengthening fiscal responsibility, improving the programming structure of the budget, controlling the spending of public funds, ensuring a more comprehensive monitoring and reconciliation of budgetary users' commitments within the prescribed deadlines, and namely taking on commitments to preserve the liquidity of the budget and including their own revenue from indirect beneficiaries of the budget in general, in order to more effectively control this significant type of revenue. The work will continue to include indirect users of budgetary resources in the budget implementation information system as well as the implementation of activities on application of international standards in the field of recording and reporting on the functioning of the budgetary system at central and local level. I don't seem to have to tell you the importance of establishing a system like this. A secondary location of the DATA centre will be established and will ensure continued development and maintenance of the information system for managing public finances of the Republic of Serbia and local authorities. We will also take the necessary measures to form a public property database in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that such a database is of crucial importance, and we have not established in the decades that preceded it. We will also strengthen the co-ordination role of the Ministry of Finance in the management of funds precisely because of the problems we were talking about today. To further improve the income collection and public debt management system, the Ministry of Finance will continue to work to improve the legislative framework in the area of fiscal and customs policy. We will continue to coordinate our activities on making a law on fees that will complete an ambitious project of uniting this group of public revenues through a legal solution. We will work on implementing the measures and transformation strategies of the Tax Administration and the Strategy for the Development of Customs Administration with a significant focus on rationalisation, structure and modernisation of business processes in the Tax Administration, further development of electronic services in order to facilitate the submission of tax returns as well as the improvement of reporting. The development of an integrated border management strategy, the modernisation of the customs laboratory, the improvement of the information and communication infrastructure of the Customs Administration, further automation of customs procedures in line with EU standards and requirements, the introduction of a system of tracking and marking the packaging of tobacco products in line with the EU tobacco control directive, as well as the construction of the Bajmok border crossing. The finance ministry will continue to work on reducing the cost of financing budget needs, including dinar government long-term bonds in so-called "long-term" bonds. the global government bond index in the local currency for developing countries, further developing the domestic market of government securities of value, increasing Serbia's credit rating and reaching higher ratings in the next three years, introducing financial derivatives-based operations to effectively control all financial risks, primarily foreign and interest risks. We will also work on optimising the portfolio of project loans both in raising their effectiveness and efficiency in using already provided funds from these concession sources of funding. The adoption of the Free Zone Development Strategy for Serbia for 2017 is also planned. - 2022. Realisation of the initial investments is in the already mentioned free zones. Strengthening regulation in the area of regulation of property-legal relations will certainly contribute to further arrival and expansion of investments. Work will continue on the full consolidation of the state-owned banking sector and will accelerate activities to lay the groundwork for the intensive development of the capital market in the Republic of Serbia in the perspective of regional market development, as well as full compliance with the best international standards in the field of corporate-financial reporting. Further, harmonisation of the management and control system for the use of EU pre-accession assistance funds. Also, inflation has been successfully brought down to a low and stable level. The fact is that over a year, inter-annual inflation fell from 12.9% in October 2012 to 2.2% in October 2013. Since then, inflation along with the National Bank has been maintained at a level comparable to developed European countries. In 2015, we ended up with an annual inflation of 1.5%, and at the end of this year the NBS expects inflation to be at a similar level, we were hoping for something higher. Countries that have not reduced macroeconomic imbalances still have high inflation, that is, the fact. This means that the low and stable inflation that we have today in Serbia, and we haven't had just four years ago, is not the result of happy circumstances, not because God looked at us, or because something fell from the sky, but is the result of responsible and well-measured measures by the NBS and the Serbian Government. Unlike four years ago, when inflation expectations were high, the price stability is expected to be preserved in the next two years. Thanks to the National Bank's measures, the interest rate on dinar loans has been reduced by a total of 10 index points since May 2013, with the reduction of monetary policy largely supported by excellent results on the fiscal consolidation plan. This is exactly what it says about the extraordinary co-ordination and joint action in the work of the government of Serbia and the NBS. We have provided and preserved the relative stability of the exchange rate despite significant turbulence from the international environment. The stability on the foreign exchange market was not achieved only in 2015, but lasts three and a half years or four years since August 2012. For the sake of comparison, please remember only this, from 2009 to August 2012. The NBS intervened in the foreign exchange market by net sales of 4.4 billion euros, with dinar depression of nearly 25.6%. In the period from August 2012 to today, the amount of interventions was more than three times lower was net 1.4 billion euros, and the dinar was only 3.4% depressed. So less than 1% on average at the annual level. So, in three years 26%, in four years 3.4%. I think it also shows how much more normal, better and more orderly the state we live in with more orderly finances. Since the beginning of 2015, i.e. in the last 19 months, more than a year and a half, the dinar has weakened by about 2%, with foreign interventions making the level of foreign reserves cumulatively increased by 55m euros. We particularly point out that we have provided and preserved the relative stability of the exchange rate, because it is not the result of happy circumstances, but the result of hard work. In the coming period, I expect the achieved monetary and financial stability to be fully maintained, coordination to continue, and this co-ordination of monetary and fiscal policy can also serve as an example for many countries. In the first half of the year, 75% of new loans to citizens were in our currency, in dinars, the highest percentage in modern history. The dinar savings are three times higher than at the end of 2012. In the next period, I expect a process that has already been initiated to continue, which is to address the issue of problematic loans. The strategy for resolving this important issue was adopted in August of last year, and since its implementation, the participation of these loans in total loans has been reduced by 2.2%. I went too far when I said 18.6 to 20.2% is the exact data. Because of this, no one in Serbia has to worry about looking at the course list with suspense, looking at the bob, and running to the exchange shop to change their money. We don't have high inflation, nor will we have it. No one's going to be reduced to real heights or profits or pensions. The National Bank was expected to see stability, as was expected by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly, and that was ensured. New industrial policy – support for investment and exports. Dear citizens and MPs, no matter what I'm already sweating, and I can't say I feel the best, I want... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Take off your jacket. Come on, behave, Mr. Seselj, and don't make any money. It's nice that I put up with you and I'm decent, but every kind of courtesy... (Vojislav Seselj, of the city: The National Assembly suffers you. You're not putting up with me. You're putting up with the National Assembly. Come on, yell a little, maybe it's better for people to see it. The detailed representation of the government's policy with clear objectives, concrete measures for their achievement and precise time limits for realisation, I think it further increases the credibility of the programme and affects the creation of positive expectations with investors. The results in the area of investment-enhancing talk about investor confidence in the Serbian government. In the period... It's possible it's my fault. In any case, so be it. I will also tell you why. Those who are our opponents and those who sit and listen must be respected. Whatever they're getting, whatever they're saying, we have to respect it more than the ones who got away and who sat down and went to the pools somewhere today so they could say something tomorrow. Vojislav Seselj throws. ) Mr. Seselj, there are always six zeros for you, only you always lose in the end, so don't worry, it's not the passing time, it's the result at the end, so look what he was like in the election now and look what he'll be like. In the period 2014 to 2016, 36 contracts were signed with investors, whose total investment value is 542m486 000 euros with an obligation to employ 18,523 workers. I only mention some of the known names of the world industry, companies that have decided to invest in Serbia – Continental, Tiger Tyres, NSR, Johnson Electric, Leoni, Pkc, Delphi, Lear, Hutchinson, Bosch and many others. You can also add Draxlmaier, which expands its production, Cromberg & Schubert, which is now entering Serbia, first in Kruševac, and then will decide on another city, whether it will be Jagodina, Kralje or Leskovac, we leave it to them, Mahle too. It is important to point out that the largest number of German companies, such as Bosch, Continental, Leoni, Siemens, Draxlmaier, we have companies that are proud of both the Bavarian and Badenvirtenge industries. Siemens Bavaria, Bosch Badenvirtengesk. They decide to further invest in Serbia, expand existing capacities or open entirely new factories in other municipalities in Serbia, accepting government recommendations to invest in less developed or undeveloped municipalities. That is why the government of the Republic of Serbia will particularly insist on investing in such municipalities and especially in five districts in the south and east of Serbia. It's Pcinski, Jablanski, Toplicski, Nisavski and Pirotski. The company's trust to invest in our country is the best indicator of economic stability, development policy and the proper political course of the government of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, however, we need a focused vision of what kind of economic structure we want to create. We need a new industrial policy that will communicate with education policy, with research and development policy. In the world, there is a lot of talk about the fourth industrial revolution based on the innovative mix of traditional technologies and achievements in the digital sphere. Otherwise, when I was on the last Davos, they were just talking, but literally it was about the fourth industrial revolution. All the leaders of the world came just to learn and reorient their economies, what we're late in, I'd say, for more than 10 years. We need both concepts and a designed approach to development and to become recognizable. We don't want to be recognizable by production where the key advantage is cheap and skilled labour to hire more people, which is also important and I ask all people not to underestimate it. That's why I defended all those who invested in this country. That's why I defended "Yura" that we didn't bring to this country, brought by some others, but I want to protect the right to pay and work for 6,500 people, not just to whine and cry and not to find reasons not to work, but to find reasons to do more. That's why I want to and ask us to change ourselves and not just watch us find something to do, but fix it, change it, improve it. But besides this industry, which is based on relatively cheap labour, which brings huge profits to these companies, and above all to autocomponents, what we want, it's to be recognizable by so-called. smart production, by innovative products, by quality. That's what we need so-called. Smart growth. The processing industry plays a key role in Serbia's economy for several reasons. It is not primarily possible to balance the trade deficit without a healthy processing industry that creates a new value for exports. Secondly, the processing industry is the main focus of creating new jobs for workers with different educational levels. The processing industry is the main source of investment in research and development and innovation for the development of society and the improvement of quality of life. Finally, the processing industry is in an unbreakable complementar relationship with the service sector, and it is not possible and unlimited to develop services without the proportionate development of the processing industry. In this respect, for the sake of balanced and sustainable development, the processing industry is a potential haven for over-investment. The total investment in Serbia is around 18% of GDP, while dynamic economic growth requires it to be 5% to 6% of GDP annually higher. The country of Central Eastern Europe, primarily EU members, has had 25% of GDP investments over the past 15 years. That's why Romania, which is why Viktor Ponta managed to make Romania, with Poland, the biggest growth among other things, and a reduction in VAT on food, which we will talk about when we complete our 6th review of our IMF arrangement. Although we have intensified public investment over the past year, we still have very ambitious plans in this respect. In order to achieve the necessary level of total investment that is a prerequisite for sustainable growth, the cumulative growth of GDP, which means that it does not create macroeconomic imbalances such as a major trade deficit, which makes us very vulnerable to every international earthquake, we need to actively support private investment in industry. In the past 20 years, 98% of industrial centres have been shut down in Serbia, with about a million workers working in Serbia, bringing today's Serbian industry down to the level since the early 1970s, where the average age of the machinery park is between 22 and 35 years. The technological structure of the processing industry in Serbia is very unfavourable. The participation of low-tech industries is 50% and with medium-low-tech 27%, which is the most unfavourable technology structure in the region. So, people, when we start crying on all the televisions, when everyone starts whining, I guess because of what they didn't do in the previous period, the point is that we haven't been able to get used to things changing in the environment, that we have to change ourselves and that we have to change everything else and that we can't live on what our parents created in 1955 and 1960. Once every part of the country had its own industrial center and contributed to the value chain of the entire economy. Today, an unbalanced regional dimension is very pronounced. Nearly 70% of the activity is concentrated in Belgrade, Novi Sad and on the road between Belgrade and Novi Sad. The processing industry has welcomed the economic crisis with a low level of competitiveness and efficiency. All the problems Serbia faced during the transition period as a direct consequence had a loss of the industrial development component. That is why we have created an unfavourable economic structure, with a share of industry with a total additional value that was only 22% minimum in 2010. Today, fortunately, it began to improve. The trend of re-industrialisation was started with the arrival of the manufacturer in the automotive industry, machinery, electronic and primarily food industries. Due to this trend, the external trade deficit from pre-crisis 25 % of GDP in 2008 is somewhat improved to something below 10% in the previous year. It's a big shift, but it's still not a good situation. There was also an enviable growth in goods exports of as much as 10% in the first half of 2016. However, it is clear that industrial growth so far has largely not been planned. Industrial policy measures were not focused enough on Serbia's key comparative advantages. For the sustainable reduction of this imbalance and enough new jobs in addition to the creation of all other conditions, we need a planned approach to this problem in order to achieve the best result with a limited spectrum of incentive instruments in terms of investment and export growth. Our goal is to achieve better export performance of our companies and to increase the base of exporters. Despite the progress made on this plan, 31% of the companies in the exchange sector are now exporting to foreign markets. All 25% of companies in the observed period can be considered successful. We successfully list those companies that have managed to increase their real income and employment. On the other hand, our industrial policy must not harm other parts of the economy. It should be long-term and stable, using general instruments oriented towards certain sectors, not individual enterprises within these sectors, which we have done before. When the president of the municipality or director of a large company comes to you and says – if that company suffers the consequences, it will ruin everything. And we based everything on the wrong premises and, of course, we couldn't come to any good conclusions. What is very important is the establishment and development of micro small and medium-sized enterprises in order to develop appropriate connections on the network principle both according to large enterprises and to other producers and consumers, and to make domestic enterprises more integrated into the value chain from raw materials to the final export product. The public component of support for the Science and Research Sector, which will later be discussed, will encourage innovation and technology transfer and close communication with industry. Support for direct investment and promotion of exports today provides a newly established Serbian Development Agency, or as we call it RAS, which is now the only point of communication with investors. On a daily basis, I have communication with the Serbian Development Agency because I find out through it who all investors are, from which all countries, from which all sectors, are interested in investing in the Republic of Serbia. The Council for Economic Development was set up, which is fully equal to domestic and foreign investors. We are also working together with the World Bank to come up with a comprehensive investment and export support system for new industrial policy. In the course of the situation analysis, best practice is to formulate the criteria that will lead to the greatest impact on employment and growth on the budgets invested in incentives. Our system of support for industrial development will be based on the following elements. First, support for the development of four selected sectors of the economy with its competitive advantages detected. It's the food industry, the machinery industry, the wood industry and the rubber and plastic processing, as well as the textile industry. Information technologies in these areas will be included in the support system as a horizontal technological component. The second measure of support is aimed at promoting exports and attracting investments. The third measure refers to the integration of local companies into the value chain to produce the largest component of the total value of the final product in Serbia. So, at the moment that Teklas arrived at Vladic's Han, which is scheduled to employ 1200 people, and to this day has hired 112 people, they are bringing in other Turkish companies. They first bring in some who need to make molds for their car parts. The company "Jesur" that goes to Žitoraj, where 180 people will be employed for the first time. So that's our goal -- to bring in all the components. Because today when you talk about exporters, because I know that many will tell me about it, when you say that Fiat is the biggest exporter, it is, but it is not the net biggest exporter, it is not even the net major exporter. Because we failed to impose parts and materials that we could supply "Fiat" as a car manufacturer, because all parts are imported. He's putting it together here, then he's re-exporting it. That's why our exports are big, but they're not big net exporters. That is why we want to bring all these components to Serbia and that as much as possible in our country can be produced. The main trend is the development of the Serbian industry, and according to the World Forum analysis, it belongs to countries with an economy based on efficiency. On the world market, many products with standard technology produced by the processing industry have largely become the subject of global supply. Any industrial production where production costs fall by at least 20% in each dualisation of the volume is a potential for the globalisation process. It is believed that by 2027 in the creation of global GDP globally set industry, this is because of what we hear in Serbia about what our future is, which people do not understand at all, because, I will remind you, in 1905 in America, 47% of the population were farmers and engaged in agricultural production. Do you know how much of their share today is in total American production? Under 2%, and they've got the best agriculture in the world. So 80% will be global industries, participate in creating global GDP. Just to see how much things have changed and that it's not the same as it was in 1946 and what it was in 2016, and it's changing from day to day. These changes, of course, differ by industrial sectors. Countries that have an open economy that can adapt to the economic, industrial, educational and scientific structure can count on economic effects. In order to become a knowledge-based economy, Serbia must: under one – establish systemic support for technology and innovation development, under two – enable re-industrious, under three – develop a business environment that supports the development of high-tech companies, under four – create an educational system that will enable the development of a highly educated workforce that can bridge the gap between low- and high-tech technologies of our industry. As you can see, we've made every effort to show you what the situation is somewhere and what it was like, but what our measures are, what are programs and plans to improve these things. Five - to increase the base of exporters and then to invest in the sustainability of these exporters on foreign markets. All 31% of the companies in the exchange sector export to foreign markets. Like I said, every fourth company manages to survive for three years. Six – to increase the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's where we should be careful. The growing competitiveness will not be sustainable on the long term due to the low rate of survival of export companies. Seven – builds and builds growth on high-development industries, to make full use of their potential for competitive internationalisation of the economy. Under eight – to unblock creative potentials and strengthen knowledge of technology, engineering and industry. Summary, principles for good industrial policy. Under one – it must not harm other parts of the economy, under two – it must be long-term and stable, under three – instruments should strengthen the fact of other instruments, under four – inflation should be low, interest rates positive, and exchange rate stable, because in such an environment there are incentives for saving and investing in the real sector, five – public borrowing must be as low as possible in order for the private sector to have more opportunities to provide adequate investment funds. General instruments directed towards certain industries should be used, not to individual enterprises within these industries. Seven – there must be freedom of choice within different directions of action, as well as flexibility, in order to successfully respond to unpredictable crises. Eight – if direct financial support, subsidies, customs and non-tariff protection measures are applied, they must have a transparent and precise procedure. Nine – an important component of industrial policy is investment in demographic, especially human capital. You don't have a strong economy that doesn't have good demographics, and we're going to have to deal with it in the next period. Look at Turkey and why and how successful it is, see what measures many other countries are taking, because in large numbers alone, in large absolute numbers you can achieve great results. The ten - educational system must ensure the proper international quality of the skills of workers, entrepreneurs and managers. To make that clear, and soon to come to our country and Ursula Ronald and Ambrodjo, she is the president of the Swiss Economic Institute, he is the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education of the country, which is the most successful in the dual education that we will talk about later. The bottom line is that they have to earn the best and the best to live those who have a pass on the market. You can be a doctor of science fifty times, like one of Ambrodja's sons, making less money, and making about 6,000 francs, 7,000 francs, kids who are auto mechanics and plumbers earning 12,000 francs, because that's what you're asking for more. We need to learn that it's not a diploma that we've ended our lives, but that we have to work, that we're on the market and that what we've done, we get the money we've earned. Eleven - In order to mitigate the negative fact of industrial policy measures on the overall economic system, it is necessary to place emphasis on the application of new technologies, especially in traditional industries. Twelve – Industrial policy makers must take into account the easy and fast international transfer to production from one location to another. Thirteen – national, regional and local specific local advantages should be developed for the production of certain goods. Fourteen - in industrial policy, a special emphasis should be placed on the creation and development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to develop appropriate connections on the network principle. Fifteen - there must be a consensus between the main employers, employees and the government on the main economic and social objectives. Sixteen - the public component of technology policy should create an adequate network for development information among interested partners. Seventeen - since the private sector is not interested in investing in non-commercial infrastructure parts, the authorities at all levels must actively act on its revitalisation, modernisation, new construction and development of appropriate public-private partnerships schemes. Eighteen -- in the long run, Serbia would have to develop another path, which is the way of relying on its own forces in the development of key technologies and strategic industrial infrastructure. It is not realistic to take this job seriously or begin in the next term, but we must lay the foundations for the government that will be elected next in this National Assembly. Chapter III – Reform of active measures to encourage employment through the National Employment Service. The number of unemployed on the National Service's record in June was 706,611 persons and you immediately have in mind that we don't really have that many unemployed. You have a significant number of people who don't want to be employed at all, but by applying to the Bureau of the National Employment Service they want to achieve the work of their rights, but we'll talk about it. Of which 364.133 are women – 51.5%. Compared to the same month of June 2015, therefore, we always measure the month per month, the number of unemployed persons decreased by 5.3% and 39,399 respectively. Unemployment in Serbia has a long-term character, although there is a certain improvement in indicators in this area. Even 64% of unemployed people are looking for a job for more than a year, leading to ageing knowledge, loss of energy, working skills, and how the likelihood of finding jobs decreases in the proportional length of the unemployment period can also lead to permanent exclusion from the labour market. The rate of long-term unemployment of 11.6% in 2015 is lower by 1.4 points compared to 2014, which shows a positive trend and results of applying active employment measures and positive results that have passed new laws, especially the Labour Act for which we have fought so hard here and fortunately managed to fight. It was he, the labour law, that meant the start of labour legislation reform and everything we talked about today, all structural reforms, all the fiscal results, everything we've achieved, that we wouldn't have realized anything if we hadn't passed a new labour law, but nothing at all. We wouldn't have been successful in anything if we hadn't passed that labor law that made so much noise. He was the foundation and he was the basis for Serbia's progress and growth. The new law on the employment of foreigners, which was adopted at the end of 2014, regulates the area of employment of foreigners in cases of working relationship, the conclusion of other contracts which exercise labour and self-employment rights and prescribed types, conditions and procedure for issuing licences. The law harmonised with the relevant directives of the European Union and the Convention on International Labour Organisation. At the end of 2015, a new law on conditions for sending temporary staff to work abroad and their protection was introduced, which after a long time regulated the rights of employees who refer to temporary work abroad, the conditions and procedure of posting and obligation of the employer, as well as the co-operation of authorities and organisations that carry out the tasks of state administration in relation to the protection of the rights of employees. This law established a new concept of notification of state authorities, reduced documentation that employers are obliged to submit and a contact of persons was introduced, provided transparency of data on employers who direct employees, thus providing them with much more security, security and protection at work, and you remember that in some countries we have had more deaths precisely thanks to the poor conduct of employers and, of course, to the poor work of the state. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work has also been adopted, which has been implemented to specify and harmonise the terminology of the basic text of the law and to comply with the relevant domestic regulations and provisions of the EU Directive. In the next period in the field of labour legislation, it is necessary to: 1) Regulate the work of temporary employment agencies. Legally regulated work through temporary employment agencies, so-called Supporting labour, setting up and working agencies should ensure adequate protection and level of the rights of employees that the agencies grant to the employer-user, in accordance with international standards, the International Labour Organisation and the European Union regulations. 2) Regulatory activities of seasonal character. The introduction of a voucher system in the process of contracting seasonal affairs and the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has educated the Working Party to draft a law on coaches to carry out seasonal affairs in which representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce were appointed. 3) Improve solutions relating to the organisations of employees and employers. 4) Continue to comply with labour law regulations with EU directives. New amendments and additions to the Labour Act will also ensure greater flexibility of work that will contribute to increased employment, more favourable working conditions for employees and other persons employed and their more efficient protection, more effective collective surplus resolution with active participation of employees in the process, greater protection of employees in status changes, employers and more active participation of staff representatives in status and rights of employees, social dialogue at a higher level through better regulation of ways, identifying representativeness and the process of concluding a collective contract, in order to resolve social conflicts in a peaceful manner. The current state of preparation and the plan for the implementation of the structural reform, the National Employment Action Plan for 2016 was adopted, is planned to create new measures to be covered by the Action Plan for Employment for the coming year, in line with the results of the analysis and with the needs of the labour market. The adoption of the plan is scheduled for the third quarter of the current year. The unemployment rate in the previous period fell by 5.3% but we rightly expect Serbia to have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the region by the end of the term of office, while at the same time not having more than 3% of the unemployment rate higher than the EU level average. Chapter 4 – entrepreneurship and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. Developed legislation in this area, as well as the ongoing process of reviewing all new legal solutions in the context of supporting the SME sector, puts Serbia at the very top of the countries that place this sector as a priority for economic development. In particular, progress in the process of registering new businesses as well as in the progress of the electronic services of state and local authorities is highlighted. The only open issue is insufficiently developed access to financial resources, which in the future can be one of the main problems of developing the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in Serbia, a sector that otherwise generates about two-thirds of employment and about 34% of Serbia's GDP. The Serbian government has taken a responsible and active approach to defining the preventive action package. Improving funding access for small and medium-sized enterprises includes improving the quality of the banking sector's offer for small and medium-sized enterprises, developing new financial instruments, as well as improving the ability to access different sources of funding. In line with what I'm telling you, our biggest problem is that banks in our country make good money on government securities. We can't force them, because if we went into it, we'd introduce legal uncertainty, and the good part of them doesn't come to mind investing in our economy, because it's always cheaper for them to work with an individual than for a relatively indivisible economy. This is one of the serious problems in the funds in craft capital for our companies that we will face in the future. We have launched the implementation of the "Year of Entrepreneurship" programme and we have grouped the projected activities in three areas. The improvement of the business environment involves changing and modernising the legislative and regulatory framework, developing business infrastructure, improving administrative procedures and involving the business sector in policy-making and programmes. Two, direct support to the Small and Medium Enterprises Sector. The economy ministry is implementing this programme in co-operation with other ministries and public institutions from the RAS National Employment Service, the Development Fund, AOFI. During 2016, the implementation of 33 financial and non-financial support programmes was planned and more than 16 billion dinars were provided from budgets and other public sources, therefore, from the Development Fund, AOFI etc. Of which the grants are as much as 4.4 billion dinars. The programmes under the “Employment Years” are the answers to the key problems and needs of the economy under one – support for the start-up of young women’s (start-ap) business with 50% grants. Under two – support for start-up of business (start-ap) equipment purchases, space equipment, re-romitary purchase through favourable loans and 30% grants. Under three – support for young Internet companies through the work of business incubators and connecting with investors. Under four – hiring new workers through incentives and return of part of taxes and contributions, financing requalification and qualifications. Under five – new investments in plants and manufacturing equipment through a combination of favourable loans and grants of 20%. Under six -- support for exports through favourable loans and AOFI guarantees, co-financing of performances at fairs, business integration. Under seven – support the introduction of standards and improvement of business through co-financing of business counselling and introduction of standards. Under eight – supporting the acquisition of new products through collaboration with science and new investments. The third area at this point consists of over 400 programmes of state, international and non-governmental organisations aimed at developing and affirming the entrepreneurial spirit as the special, long-term most important objective of "The Year of Entrepreneurship 2016" to improve the business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. Successful regulatory reform also means successful application of the rules adopted, and in the coming period it is particularly important to make additional efforts to ensure the effective application of the rules adopted. The planned measures for the next period are the establishment of an incentive regulatory framework in line with the needs and possibilities of small and medium-sized enterprises and the promotion of a participatory method, the adoption of public policies and concrete programmes that introduces business representatives in the field of business creation and increases transparency, openness and government responsibility. Systemic reform of all administrative procedures aimed at removing obstacles, reducing costs created by economies and increasing transparency. The measure includes activities on floor one - the introduction of a single legal framework that regulates the type, height, method of collecting and distribution of fees. Under two – make a list of all fees and taxis as the basis for making the register fees and taxis. Under three – forming registration-administrative procedures. Under four – further development of electronic administration. Ensuring institutional support for SME development through the programme "Every year is a year of entrepreneurship". There is a need to improve access to funding sources for the sector through the following measures: reform of public financial institutions and raising the capacity of employees for the new financial instrument, development of financial instruments for SMEs such as guarantee schemes and microfinance. Also, the continued development of human resources through the following measures. Change of education system in the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with the Ministry of Education. Harmonising formal education of the system with labour market needs, introducing dual education to the extent possible. We are far from Switzerland, Germany and Austria. Introduction of entrepreneurial education to all levels of the education system of the Republic of Serbia, entrepreneurship since the fifth grade. By the way, when these Turks came to me from Teklas and Jessur, Wahat Bay, Kemer Bay, and we talk about when anyone starts working, they told me themselves that it's possible that in your country wherever we go, not just Belgrade at twelve o'clock at two o'clock in the shop, in front of the store, everything's a lot and everybody's drinking, and a little who works. I told him that a lot of people are really working. They said if you know, my son, Kemer Bayov, my grandson, and Kemer Bay's son is seven years old and he goes to the factory every day, he goes to the factory to learn what it is he needs to do in the future. I'm not saying we're supposed to do that, but in Switzerland, Austria, Germany, from teenage days, they've been doing it and that's why they're the first, so they're the most successful, and that's why we're lagging behind, and you're scrambling all you want, as long as you want. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Who is the man? I.D.'s who? ) You usually yell Mr. Seselj, even with coffee when you drink, you enjoy yourself, and these others like to moan. On my account and coffee for you, I knew you couldn't handle it. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Burek too. I'll get you a burek too, Mr. Seselj, I know it's hard without that. Access to new markets and internationalisation of business through the following measures. The introduction of sectoral approach in the process of defining support to the economy involves identifying priority industrial branches... This is the thing, you know, this is the thing that makes us unsuccessful. That's the thing you saw on the front page of the paper, I'm talking about that work hours and everything else, imagine, it was extended working hours. So what if the hours were extended? What's the problem? The biggest problem in Serbia is when someone has to work and because it is the biggest problem we are here today. Just don't throw it at me and you'll be the ones who destroyed 98% of the Serbian industry with thieving privatisations. Just don't throw it at me and don't tell me. The activities of the National Employment Service will be in line with the needs of operators in selected sectors. The active involvement of businessmen in council working bodies for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the next period, the focus of support for technological development and innovation will be through funds that directly and through the attracting of foreign donors and investors will stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises based on modern technologies. In addition to financial support by changing the legislation, the business of start-ups will be facilitated and lifelong learning programmes for professions that are missing for the accelerated development of this part of entrepreneurship will become easier. Encouraging the entrepreneurial spirit of students will be implemented through education reform. Chapter V - research and development. The scientific community in Serbia, of course, is not an estimated national resource. Of course, underdeveloped, and we don't use enough, despite the world's modest financial support from the state budget and the almost non-existent involvement of the private sector, because don't forget when we went into action for dual education and when we started talking about it and when Verbic or Sertić got engaged, there was a big problem that none of the domestic companies wanted to participate, because domestic businesses don't plan 10 years ahead. We achieved co-operation with the Continental, Johnson Electric, they ask us to increase the number of students and students in the technical schools in Nis, the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Engineering, because they need both five and 10 years to work there. We, unfortunately, have been taught how to survive the next day and the next month, and unfortunately we do not make more serious plans. In recent years, however, Serbian researchers have significantly increased the number of scientific papers published in prestigious international magazines and received numerous international projects and continued interest in science and scientific results remained at a very low level. Our efforts in this area in the coming period will be directed towards innovation as part of the research process. The challenges ahead are great. We need to turn the outflow into brain circulation, make the sources of funding, research more diverse, allow scientists to build their careers and conduct their research outside the academic sphere, focus on the most important topics and restructure the scientific and research system. The biggest of all challenges is to encourage innovation, to make the research process permeable and in the opposite direction. We know very well how to create knowledge from money, but we are still struggling to make money with knowledge. The role of science is even more complex today than it was in the 20th century. Our daily lives depend more and more on science and technology while fewer people understand how science works and why it matters. We will have to significantly improve the image of science in the Serbian public, and excellence and respect within the closed academic community is necessary, but it is certainly not enough. So we need to show why science is important for those who are involved in science. But also the people of the sector must change themselves, not only that the importance of their own or the importance that the government attaches to them by degree and percentage of the share in the Republic of Serbia's budget is not even the most important, and certainly not the only measure that the government should take. The key problems in the field of technological absorption and innovation are low learning separations, insufficient scientific and economic co-operation with regard to the commercialisation of research into innovative projects, lack of researchers, lack of institutional framework to support innovation, uncertainty of funding of scientific and research organisations. Science issue in Serbia 1% of GDP is lower than the EU average, around 2% of GDP in 2013. From the private sector comes only 7.5% of all investment in science, which is significantly below the EU average where even 55% of all investment in science is made up of private sector investment. Don't let me tell you that this is an EU average of 28 countries, and what is the average in Germany, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, I'd rather not speak. In addition to low investment, the problem is the lack of human capacities caused by, among other things, is not a priority, and a significant brain drain, as well as the demotive nature of researchers. Some shifts were made in the previous four-year cycle of funding for scientific projects when the number of researchers financed was increased. In addition to a low number of researchers, the problem is the lack of mobility between scientific and research organisations and the private sector. In addition to financial support to the state, it is important to establish an institutional framework to support innovation, technology transfer offices, incubators for newly established innovative enterprises, etc. There is no cooperation between academic circles with the economy, as well as commercialisation of research, because everything in our country is based on the state. After all, there is still greater motivation to work in the state for a salary of 30,000 dinars, than to work with a privateer for 50 and 60 grand, because our people say – which is safe, and it doesn't have to be done so much and until we change it with ourselves we won't be able to have uncomparably better results. By your smiles, you all know I've told the truth. Unfortunately, no one's going to tell the people because we're all courting each other, they're all very valuable, and you saw that some couldn't sit for a single minute. It's been a very difficult day for them. It's been a hard day for them. They got up at one and fifteen to come at two in the congregation. A programme to support innovation and technological development in the public and private sectors, a description of structural reform, with the exception of support for innovation and no matter what reach you and everything you've added, I very much respect that you are sitting and listening, except for support for innovation projects and technological development projects in scientific research organisations and in the private sector of this reform, including the establishment of a technology transfer system, the implementation of joint projects of public and research organisations and private companies, as well as the financing of innovation projects in the private sector through the Innovation Labour Fund. An independent international evaluation of Serbia's institutes will also be carried out during 2016 to improve their efficiency and capacity to co-operate with the private sector through technology projects. In the next period, we intend to reform the entire science system in Serbia in order to increase the overall resources that the research and development sector is able to attract, primarily with its competitiveness on the one hand, but also ensure that we produce the best scientific results for the money invested wherever possible through the necessary science and economy environment. In addition to increasing investment in science, the government's task will be to attract more investment from the economy into a scientific activity that is incomparably greater in other countries, public-private partnerships and more efficient management of state property, mining, tourism, spa, local municipal activity. The privatisation process under the new Privatisation Act ended at the end of 2015, with the exception of 17 strategic enterprises. A positive impact on public finances is expected through a reduction in the amount of funds from Serbia's budget, which are being donated to large-loss enterprises and an increase in the productivity of privatised enterprises. A small number of public-private partnership projects have been implemented since the entry into force of the Law on PPP and concessions and the establishment of a PPP commission in Serbia. The most important and major project currently being implemented is the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the Vinca dump in Belgrade and which is as such, and this is the first process of competitive dialogue being conducted in Serbia, so it is also the case, the value of the project is 300m euros, and the project's success at this time depends on the success of the public-private partnership concept in Serbia. It is certainly the largest project in the area of waste management currently under way not only in the region, but throughout Europe. Ecologically, this project solves the problem of Europe's largest non-sanitary dump, where waste has been collected for about four decades and which directly threatens the Danube River. In this sense, it should be monitored together with a project to build a wastewater treatment plant in Belgrade, which is completely solved by the problem of pollution of the Danube. Realisation of this project would practically subsidise the accession targets of Chapter 27 at the level of the Republic of Serbia by about 70%. The biggest potential for attracting investment through the application of the public-private partnership model lies in the following areas – the development of Banjska tourism, investment in local municipal activity, as well as investment in mining and geology. This model could make a major contribution to the development of Banjska tourism and strategic development of the total Banjska offer in Serbia. The state property in the spas has to be activated. Our spas are mostly located in the most underdeveloped areas of Serbia. It's Niski, Toplički, Raski, Rasinski County, and great natural potentials are not used, because the PIO Fund sues the Republic for property over these spas, so privatisation is stalled. Since the PIO Fund receives a transfer from the Republic each year, which is a gift, so that pensioners can get their pensions, of about two billion euros, it is economically unwarranted that the Fund sues the Republic for property worth a few dozen million euros. So we're going to make an agreement on a settlement that would prescribe that the state transfers to the PIO Fund buys out their property rights in the spas. It is possible to implement within a few months, and then start to activate and privatise the spa. It's a big thing that we'll finally, I'd say, after 100 years of waiting we can do, because that someone's going to keep and hold on to 13 members of their union, and that we can't make them economically profitable businesses, there's nothing out of that job, so we're going to move very, very quickly and in the most efficient way possible. This could also have a significant impact on employment in undeveloped areas. I'm going to give you an example of the Kursumli spa, which has been closed for more than 10 years because of this dispute, and when activated, it alone would employ between 200 and 300 people, which would reduce the unemployment rate in Kursumlia by more than 10%. Where possible and commercially reasonable, the state will exit the ownership structure and allow the private sector to invest. We are also trying, you have seen, and with Centro Sava, because this is a recent call from the City of Belgrade to submit bids for investment showed, we are trying to find solutions to how to restore objects that are already obsolete, outdated in every respect, absolutely inefficient. As far as I know, three companies have shown interest so far, two private and one state-owned. Understandably, we will watch which is best, but we prefer not to transfer it from one state to another, but to end it in the private sector, in principle 51% to the City of Belgrade, 49% to the private, with investments that are minimal at 20,000,000 euros. If we were to affirm a public-private partnership within the framework of the municipal economy, there would certainly be such investments and in the activities covered by local institutions. There wouldn't be any interference with a private partner getting for example. The land as a role of local self-government in a joint venture builds a sports facility, an object intended for culture and kindergarten, and such facilities are leased to local self-government. In the area of mining and energy, the adoption of a new law on mining and geological research would improve the investment environment, which would contribute greatly to attracting investment in these areas. The application and model of concessions under the PPP Act and concessions opens new chances for investors. There is also a case, an example of the Jadar Project conducted by Rios Ava Explorejsin in the research of lithium and pine, and we expect great results. They have invested around $100,000 so far, but only since 2018 and 2019 do we expect serious results. The same is true of the team's magmatic zone at the Brestovac site, Rocket Explorejsn and Chinese investors, the Betek company has started researching geological water in southern Serbia with the aim of finding geothermal capacity for electricity production. The exploitation of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Serbia currently deals with around 180 mining enterprises. In addition, the following years are expected to open a mine of birth minerals, "Pissing" by the company "Balkan Gold", the opening of the Maydan iron mine and by Metalfer and the opening of the coal mine "Jerma" by the company "Hram" in 2016. It is very important to provide investments in order to further develop geological research and to create new ore capacities, expand existing and raise capacities, as well as revitalisation and procurement of new mining equipment. Given the excellent results of geological research and the confirmed potential of this sector, we can expect a greater impact on Serbia's GDP. Under three, business environment, legal security and strengthening institutions and a more efficient public sector. On 17 December 2015, the government adopted the National Grey Economy Prevention Programme with the accompanying Action Plan, which, among other things, provides for the implementation of a level analysis of parafiscal burdens and the adoption of acts by the Government, which requires the abolition of parafiscal duties, for which the analysis identified an unwarranted existence. The large size of the grey economy, around 30% of GDP, has a very unfavourable impact on domestic business activities and limits Serbia's competitiveness on the international market. The new inspection control law, as well as the adopted sublaw acts, including the Education Decision, should regulate the situation in this area. In October 2015, the government adopted a set of sub-legislative acts governing standards of inspection supervision, including common elements of risk assessment, patterns on how to keep records of inspection surveillance, the programme and how to carry out inspections for the inspector, the format of the minutes, the establishment of a single inspection information system and inspectors, and we will enable both more efficient and more effective and united work of all inspectors. Serbia has just improved its position from 91st to 59th place in the World Duing Business List thanks to the reform of the construction license system, as well as other system measures to improve efficiency. Amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction shall introduce a common procedure covering the acquisition of locational, construction and use permits. The introduction of electronic services under the Tax Administration of Tax Bonds has enabled more procedures for preparing and paying taxes by electronic means, contributing to the more transparent work of tax authorities and simplifying tax procedures. The establishment of a common information platform for all inspections at the republican level, the establishment of this system and the inspector is related to the activity contained in the proposal for an action plan for the implementation of the e-Government Development Strategy in Serbia for the period from 2015 to 2018. This reform will allow for the improvement and coordination of inspections, legal regulation and establishment of an information system in order to effectively exchange data and electronic data in the planning and implementation of surveillance, which is the aim and strategy of public administration reform in Serbia and the inspection control law. Our goal is to use all inspections at the Republic level by 2018. The already mentioned comprehensive reform of the tax administration should contribute, in addition to better tax collection, by relying more on analysis of collected data and by better targeting its activities, to reducing the grey economy, quality rules, stop bureaucracy and simplifying unnecessary procedures for citizens and business. In Serbia, around 200 laws and about 600 sublegal acts were passed on average in 2014 and 2015. In such circumstances, care about the quality of the regulatory environment or so on. regulatory reform is an essential element of the government administration's professional commitment. Accordingly, we have also adopted a Strategy for Regulatory Reform, which brings together a set of measures aimed at simplifying regulations and ensuring a better regulatory environment as one of the most important elements of the competitiveness of a single economy. In the next four-year period, this reform will entail the maximum involvement of the Government and of all state authorities, units of local self-government and public enterprises, which in their jurisdiction have procedures through which economic operators, independently of their size and strength, exercise some right or fulfil the obligation imposed on them by the state. Justice. Reforming judicial professions, for a good business environment, but for the safety of every citizen, Serbia needs an efficient judicial system. Much has been done in the previous period, but much is ahead of us that we need to do in order for Serbia to have a better judicial system, able to resolve disputes quickly and to fight corruption decisively and quickly. This is important because the key problem that investors and those who are satisfied with the reception in the Republic of Serbia are our judiciary and to resolve disputes for years, sometimes decades, and these are the things that we need to change in the next period. So far it has been done in the field of reform of judicial professions of perpetrators and public notebooks and intermediaries in dispute resolution, mediators, in accordance with Chapter 23, and all in order to improve the efficiency and quality of the judicial system, as well as to improve expertise and accountability. Executors. Reforming the enforcement and security system is one of the priorities in the area of judicial reform. A significant increase in the normative framework and the enforcement process was already carried out in early 2015, related to the even distribution of cases to the perpetrators, and since this year cases related to municipal and similar claims have been deployed through the Chamber of Executives, in accordance with the recommendations of the Report on the assessment of the requesting system from the project of rule of law and enforcement of the claim. The same project has led to a comprehensive analysis of the legal and institutional framework of legal flows of the EU and international standards and good practice and has been given recommendations for legislative and other related reform measures to improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to reduce the number of cases lagging behind in the executive process. The new law on enforcement and security adopted in December 2015 entered on 1 July 2016. Within a month of applying the law, the number of old executives, believe it or not, has been reduced by at least 600,000, by just a month. Among the papers adopted by the law, the extension of the jurisdiction of the perpetrators aimed at reducing the number of cases in courts and more precise provisions on the division of jurisdiction between courts and perpetrators, the introduction of the right to appeal and the unification of judicial practice through the jurisdiction of senior courts, the transfer of old municipal cases to the jurisdiction of the perpetrators, the settlement of costs and compensation issues in those proceedings. The application of the new law will allow courts to dissipate, 1,450,614 old cases, which will significantly contribute to better statistical results of work and reduce the number of pending cases by more than 60%. Of course we started a task force. Currently in Serbia, 239 perpetrators are appointed, in the area of all senior courts, which I think is not bad, you know, as MPs. The analysis of the work has led us to the fact that the perpetrators in the observed reporting period have solved a total of 349,697 cases, in the offices of 239 executives with 13 deputies, and besides them another 1,673 employees, all engaged in the private sector on the basis of the employment contract. Their contribution to a more efficient judicial enforcement system shows a trend in significant growth. In addition to a set of judicial laws, which have been passed on the same day as the Law on Enforcement and Security, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes which rationalise the tax in the executive procedure should be adapted to the case where the public enforcer implements the enforcement. This greatly reduces the costs of the executive procedure. The recognition of the quality of reforms in this field is also seen through the NAEDA Prize for the contribution to the reform and application of the law in 2015 given to the Ministry of Justice. The establishment of notaries in Serbia significantly contributes to legal certainty, which together with a reformed enforcement and security system reflects the establishment of a more favourable investment environment. So all the time, I'm gonna talk about the judiciary and when we talk about the judiciary, we're talking about the role of the judiciary in providing a better business and investment environment. Today, the public record works 145 public notebooks. There are still no public records of 12 main courts in the Republic of Serbia. In these offices, next to them, another 469 employees were hired. During 2015, they produced a total of 180,399 public records and executed 271,818 overa. Also, amendments to the Law on Public Registration introduced the obligation to pay a 30% cash on untaxed notes' income, and 800 million dinars have been paid to the budget since then, based on this. The public note tariff has been analysed and improved by the adoption of amendments from 2016 and by the adoption of a new tariff of the public notebook as the court's trust in the process for the debate of the legacy, allowing for the smooth start of work of public notebooks and in this area in the second quarter of 2016. Given the fact that Article 29. The law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions stipulates that in cities, i.e. municipalities for which public notebooks, basic courts, or municipal administrations are appointed, they retain as a trusted business that on 1 March 2017, they verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. It is necessary for the Ministry of Justice to collect statistics on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and signatures in the coming period, and in order to establish the situation and take appropriate measures, in order to draft amendments and the completion of the law in order to keep the municipal administrations in question as trusted. As for mediators in dispute resolution, mediators, as far as mediation is concerned, as an alternative way of resolving disputes without initiating court proceedings following this new law now has an executive title. The disputed agreement is incomparably easier to implement in reality compared to the regular costs of court proceedings depending on the value of the dispute and is cheaper by 35 to 60%. We, as a state, will have to, in order for the mediation to come to life, to take appropriate measures and stand strongly behind it. We have a whole series of activities, because this encourages the efficiency and effectiveness of our economy, as well as of all other state bodies involved in dispute resolution. As far as the work plan in the field of judicial professions is concerned, strategic documents have outlined activities aimed at establishing expertise, accountability, efficiency of higher quality of justice. In the next period, equally in line with the strategic framework, attention should be paid to reform judicial professions that were not the justice ministry's priority. Court experts, court interpreters and court translators and lawyers. The legal framework of 2010, 2011, which regulates this profession, is not in line, has nothing to do with European standards, nor with the legal assets of the EU which are subject to harmonisation in negotiating Chapter 3, and is necessary in the next three-year period to amend the same, so the Law on Artists, Law on Court Interpreters and Translators, regulatory reforms until 2020, should be followed by other measures of support. It should also be taken into account the reform of the judicial examination provided for in the Action Plan, and that the Law on the Judicial Examination has not been adapted to the judiciary since 1997. As for the efficiency of the work of the courts, we did an analysis of the work of the courts in 2015. During 2015, there were 4,951,929 cases in courts of general and special jurisdiction. The inflow of the case in this year was significantly higher in 2014, 417,810 more than in the previous reporting period. A total of 2,071,303 cases were solved, while 1,764,000 were solved in the previous year. Of the total number of cases solved, 396,000 items are old items. It is important to point out that the number of solved old cases in 2015 is higher than the number of solved old cases in 2014, which was 305,000, and that the work of courts in 2015 was more up-to-date, better and more efficient. There is progress in the length of the procedure. The criminal proceedings in the primary court lasted on average 310 days, 254 days. We hope and believe we can do it even faster and more efficiently. In higher courts first-degreed litigation 232, criminal 277 days. In the second-degree court, the average lasts 35 days. The Law on the protection of the right to trial was adopted within a reasonable period of time, which began to apply from 1 January 2016. This law must contribute to the acceleration of court proceedings, the reduction of performances against the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights, which is already happening in practice and to allow adequate compensation to parties whose right to trial is largely injured. Nikola and Nella, I'm gonna have to skip some of that, because... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We can endure. I know, you can have coffee and a burek. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You want coffee and a burek? No, it would not be appropriate for me to drink coffee and eat a keg, either in front of you or in front of the citizens of Serbia. We're going to infrastructure work. You're making it possible for me to... [[Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Would you like a five-minute break?]] (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We are the only ones who support you. These guys don't support you. ) Thank you for your support. Don't back me up any more. Infrastructure works, the results so far and the work plan for the next four years. After a long period of time, during which there was almost no investment for the needs of the judicial authorities, we did the following things. Nearly 30,000 square metres of space for the work of the judicial authorities has been provided. I'm sorry I couldn't visit this facility in Katanic, but we're going to go see it together soon. We don't know where we are. ) It is about the infrastructure within the justice system. Also, the First Basic Court in the Street of Nikola Tesla Boulevard in the area of about 10,000 m2. Also, the facility for the needs of the Criminal Court of Appeal and the accompanying services in Belgrade, 4,000 m2, particularly grateful to the US administration that helped us. A new building in Raška for the needs of the Raška Criminal Court, which is the first newly built building after 20 years and the first newly built building for the purposes of criminal courts. New premises and the General Court in Loznica, Stari Pazova and Lazarevec, More and Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, Vrsac, Zajecar, Criminal Court in Zajecar and Šapac. We are in the coming period of completion of the work in the Privred and Violent Court in Užica, Sombor of the Higher and Main Public Prosecutor's Office, in the King's General and Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, our tasks are also the establishment of a sustainable system of free legal assistance, which is understood for the budget and it is not a bit simple for us, because it is the fundamental right for all people to be equal in access to justice and to be able to effectively, under equal conditions and without discrimination to protect and exercise their rights, to be better informed about their rights and obligations, to learn about the basis of their demands and the prospects for success in the procedures that will prevent the rise of unfounded lawsuits. Also improving the legal framework that regulates the protection of personal data in order to comply with new EU rules and a new legal framework that will regulate the equal status of judicial staff in the judiciary. That is why the Justice Ministry plans to finally, in the coming period, particularly regulate the working-law status of judicial staff in judicial authorities. Consider the organisational reform of appeals courts, as well as the Administrative Court. So, the judiciary is a four-year plan. A new Law on Artists was adopted in the first year of office, the Law on Free Legal Assistance was adopted in the first year of office, and a sustainable system of free legal aid was established. The Law on the Prevention of Family Violence was passed in the first year of office, the Law on Interpreters and Translators was adopted. Reform the judicial exam and pass the law on the judicial examination. To pass a new law on the protection of personal data, to pass a law on officials in judicial authorities, to consider the introduction of an appeal court and an appeal public prosecutor's office for the territory of the entire state. Consider reform of the administrative dispute in terms of the introduction of two-stageness, which means the establishment of four first-degree administrative courts and a administrative appeal court. Efficiency. Establish all registers in electronic form. In the first year of the term of office, the implementation of a single programme for solving old cases aimed at solving 80% of old cases by the end of 2018. Continue discharging courts from non-judgmental cases, strengthening judicial professions of public enforcement officers and public notebooks, introducing an electronic delivery system and introducing an electronic judicial advertising board publicly available via the Internet, and in order to facilitate citizens' information. Administration reform, more responsibility to the administration, smarter management. Today we present you with ambitious tasks, and their implementation requires efficient, flexible and above all, smart state administration. A country that is both a partner and a service is needed for both citizens and the economy of Serbia to meet their needs and aspirations. To join the EU, we need a management that is fully adhered to the principles of the European administrative space and which is fully qualified to operate in this area. For the government of Serbia, public administration reform means building a administration that meets all these needs. Today, the economy and the citizens do anything, like weights around their legs, are being dragged out of date and over-administering. I pledge to remove these weights together until the end of this government's term. Every citizen will be able to solve his case within a reasonable period of time, or at least to get an answer as to why something is not possible without intervention and without a painful and expensive break of the counters. Most importantly, everyone, regardless of whose political, ethnic, or whether they have a relationship, will be served equally. I'm aware that's not a small promise. It's a change of culture, a number of regulations, and some legal understandings that we've learned from the pain of living with. It's also the professionalization of officials. I once had a chance to visit the institutions of the system in Japan. To see how the people who come there are treated by officials, and how the people who come there feel. It's something that, hopefully, we can reach in about 50 or 100 years, but we can certainly change our relationship and act differently in the next four years, at the time of this government's term. The new law on general administrative procedure, adopted last February, lays the legal basis for such a administration, stressing particularly the principles of partnership with citizens, transparency and purpose and efficiency. Since June, the administration has been obliged to work, instead of citizens and businesses, in the mutual exchange of information on them in its records, i.e. no longer has the right to require citizens to obtain on one counter assurances which they then carry on another counter and charge them for it. In a year, such a walk will no longer be required in the largest number of cases, as electronic data exchange will replace the issue of about 10 million paper on an annual basis. However, changing the rules is not enough. The whole government will have to seriously roll up their sleeves and make changes both through comprehensive and basic training to change our awareness and improve employees' skills, and through diligent monitoring and supervision of the implementation of policy regulations and results. This government will continue to improve quality and objectivity in the work of inspections. During the past year, 340 inspectors have been trained directly to transfer their knowledge to all other inspectors during the next period. The electronic exchange of data on co-operation and planning is being prepared. These inspectors for 2017. a year in the coming years we will equip and train every inspector for electronic work. Important and concrete co-operation and sciences produced by the project "Bebo, welcome to the world" which established a unique child-birth counter. Instead of spending a minimum of two weeks breaking into five tents, parents can now complete all the baby registration procedures in 10 to 15 minutes in one place, free of charge at the maternity ward, today at 24 maternity homes, 25 by the end of the year. Soon we will ensure the exercise of the right to a parental supplement, a child's allowance and maternity allowance for the absence of work, due to the care of the child in one place, without walking between the counters. We will also introduce an electronic office into the central administration, which, in addition to large savings in business, will allow us to introduce a regular number for all civil objects in the next phase and thus significantly strengthen order, improve transparency and reduce corruption space. In the previous three and a half years, we have reduced the state administration by more than 13%, although we still have room for savings, and we must first of all ensure better division of jurisdiction, better organisation of jobs and a better structure of employees, as well as introduce modern management methods. First of all, we need to raise the management skills and skills of the executives, more to rely on project management and describe all the officers for electronic work. The work of the state administration can only be promoted by disciplined and motivated officials, professionals, the work in the state is a privilege and should be understood, in terms of honor, obligations and responsibilities, not in terms of receiving. We want the private sector to be stronger in terms of receiving, but the one who works in the state will have to deal with it and bear the responsibility of an incomparably greater one than the one who is not in the public sector. We've already done a lot of things, together with the IMF, the World Bank, the IBRD, but I think we have a lot more to do in the coming period, and we need to do it in order to simplify it, reduce it. We have a lot of so-called. secondary legislation that we will also have to codify in the framework of regulatory reform to behave in a much more responsible way than in the previous period. Strengthening the capacity and responsibilities of local self-government for its own, social and economic development, our goal must be fiscally responsible local self-government which is unfortunately not today. In 85-90% of local self-government absolutely does not exist. Let everyone get mad, let the members of the party I'm still running get angry. That's unfortunately a huge problem. We're missing discipline that's at a better level this year than last year. Last year she was at a lower level than she was before, but still not at a satisfactory level. The responsibilities of local self-government, according to data from the Serbian government, are almost no longer growing. It grew dramatically by 2014. It only grows in health care institutions because of those moronic regulations we made in 2008, 2009 and 2010, for about 250 million dinars monthly and lagging behind some earnings, which is, of course, the result of intense political pressure and direct supervision of the Ministry of Finance. The problem is the lack of systemic financial discipline, money is spent irresponsiblely, and for anyone who is managed by people, whether local self-government or the Serbian government is often driven away by our incompetent or irresponsible behaviour. The energy of local self-government is also infrequently focused on the stoning of privileges and helping the republican authorities rather than on their own development, as this is objective for them in the short term more politically productively. Of course, I also want to commend those from different political parties who do their job well, there are them and I congratulate them once again on discipline and responsibility. Why are they handling it? It is easier to provide the government with resources and support by persevering and building personal and political ties than to invest in its own capacity and development. The criteria when the Republic helps, and when not, are not clear enough and I have to tell you that we helped you not in line with objective criteria, not even according to whether we know or not, we helped where we have the biggest problems. Now let me ask you what we're going to do with the Smederev Palanka, let the Parliament say, let whoever they want say? All public enterprises are bankrupt, all of them. The municipality went bankrupt, they can't pay anything, and then an expert remembered to build a football club to transfer salaries, Smederevska Palanka, this expert Kena, Kena, I don't know his name. So, listen to the football club then went bankrupt and now there's no more pay, there's nothing left. Now, all they have to do is start a handball club to pay the community's salaries. There is no such case anywhere in the world. In Koseric. In Koserić, here, for years already, five million euros. Imagine small Koserić owes five million euros to municipalities, and these are the ones who write you texts in the famous and influential newspapers and each day teach you how to behave and then wonder what hurts your head. Then when they come to you or when the Kragujevac and Nis and all the others in which the debts have been accumulated, and what to do but help, and what to do, but watch, help where you can and what you can do. The solution is, of course, in a precise distribution of jurisdiction and responsibilities between the Republic and the locals, which must be simplified and strengthened by establishing firm limits of permitted behaviour. The child, neither the plumbing nor anyone else can pay him anything, is worth anything, there is not a single utility that can receive a dinar because they are all bankrupt and now what we do but the state of Serbia has to help Smederjevska Palanci. It's not his fault, I didn't even tell him, it's because he was commenting on the other one. This requires and strengthens the republican supervision, but focused on key outcomes, incentives for responsible behaviour, conditional assistance or rewards and greater manoeuvres, of course, for local self-government, dedicated and more resolute support of advisory financial, above all to strengthen capacity. Forced financial administration, when we speak in establishing sound financial discipline, setting up a financial administrator for the entire finances of local self-government, does not suspend wider self-government, is established by automation as soon as any budget user of local self-government enters late. Therefore, the management of the entire local self-government is punishable for not treating an indirect user. It is up to them to appoint responsible directors and create normal conditions for their work. Establishing sound records of the commitments of local budget users, setting up an expert unit to act, such as the IMF is working with its members. Building a frame of potential financial administrators, establishing a sustainable starting state, adopting realistic budgets, i.e. financial plans with the help of an expert unit, where necessary, to restructure existing debts under certain conditions, to adopt appropriate rationalisation plans, to desecrate assets in function especially those with the highest potential. The lack of public property in Serbia has impaired economic growth and it is therefore important that a huge part of the productive potential is not paralyzed, as key industrial sites are anchored in bankruptcy, return of property to the local and public enterprises, are done in an extremely dysfunctional manner. Public enterprises of the military and agricultural land affected locations with potential for industrial development, but most often untapped. It is therefore necessary that the property has a owner who will put it into office, and the solution is to clearly identify the person responsible for the property and development capacity issue of local self-government in the government. To establish an inter-resor team that will first look at property ownership issues in an unintegrated way and find solutions, to get the Republic out of the bankruptcy of a strategic industrial location in a systematic way, to encourage local self-government over homeownerships, by conditioning ownership of these strategic locations with appropriate performances, that the process of returning property to self-government is largely automated and radically accelerated, to further tax property that is not operational, and that is one of the most important measures and a new address in the government must be systematically handled with local self-governments to build their capacity to manage development, i.e. It provides them with support in identifying development opportunities, not the need to respond to investor requests in the development and management of projects, especially in the EU. The system of monitoring the outcome indicators of the performance of units of local self-government. Introduce a multi-stage inter-resorial surveillance system over the effects of local self-government. So far, we're just an example of China that we have to adapt to our conditions. Since the early 1980s, the government has introduced an impact assessment system for local self-government, as the main emergency aid the state can successfully manage its employees. The impact assessment system is working not only to set the right priorities, to achieve economic growth and maintain stability, but also to successfully encourage competitive behaviour in local self-government to be as good as possible. The performance matrix of Central AD is the main instrument on which results are measured on the basis of different economic, social and political variables and these output indicators have a scale of one to 100 and are ranked in three levels, veto indicators that include social stability and birth rate, claims indicators – those that include economic growth in investment and fiscal income, a lot of points have bonuses and soft indicators – those that include education, health, cultural activities and pensions. Reaching these indicators brings fewer points. The reform of the large state system and the completion of privatisation. For the sake of better competition, but also the rational availability of state resources, we continue to withdraw the state from a part of the economy that is not a strategic resource. In the previous two years, we started to reorganise and restructure three of the largest public infrastructure systems – EPS, "Srbigas" and "The Railway". The Serbian government has been tasked with completing an undertaking for which no government has had the courage in the past 15 years. The transition, the transition from collectiveised to market view of the economy, began 25 years ago in the countries of new Europe, but also in Serbia. In other countries, it was completed 20 years ago, while the process continues in Serbia. When the new Privatisation Act was adopted in August 2014, a total of 526 companies with 92,000 employees were in the process. Of these 161 companies were in the restructuring process, which protected them from forced collection by creditors. 41 companies were privatised during this government's period, and for 262 companies, it was launched or in the process of opening bankruptcy proceedings. The privatisation processes have been suspended at 105 companies. A pre-prepared reorganisation plan or a famous UPR was adopted and 32 companies started to implement it. A public call for sale of 101 companies has been made. No additional public call has been issued. for 11 strategic companies, all measures have been taken in order to function further and after the expiry of this deadline. A public call for selecting a strategic partner was issued for Galenika, including companies that launched the bankruptcy process of severance took 19,469 employees in 247 enterprises and for these purposes, the Serbian government paid 12.3 billion dinars. A sale contract was signed for the China company Hestil for 46m euros, "Zelezare Smederevo". Much more important than the sale price is the plan to invest Hestila in "Zelezar". The aim of the investment is to modernise, improve efficiency, expand the production programme and improve the ecological environment. There are 5,050 workers working there today. None of them got fired. Everyone's been offered a job contract. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers has been adopted. The text of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Banking Act has been finalised. The objectives of the proposed measures are to reduce the bankruptcy process multiplely, remove the observed procedural disturbances in the process, reduce the time limit with the removal of the moratorium, increase the protection of creditors and faster payment of claims. The plan for the next period covers the privatisation of 73 companies, 18 of which is the larger and more significant "Lasta", "JAT technique", "Simpo". Continuing the privatisation process of other ministry portfolio companies, as well as the privatisation processes of large companies, such as Telecom Serbia, Nicole Tesla Airport, Danube Insurance. Don't forget, when we talk about the Airport, that thanks to Er Serbia, something that had a total value of 50m euros today for concessions contract at 25 years starting value with afront payment, with it we'll go to tender, it'll be around 310m euros. It just tells you what it is that we managed to do in the previous period plus "consess fi" tax, a concession fee that will be paid at a rate of 10, 11, 12m euros per year at all 25 years. This shows that some of the results we have managed to do in a very serious way and with discipline and responsibility to change what has already been destroyed. RTB Bor, we have to change everything. They have to improve their business through UPPR, but it's all going hard. It's going very complicated, and whatever I'm going to say to you, as well as to JP "Resavitica" and our plans, and that's, of course, we have no problem today, because of the price of oil and the price of low gas, with Azotar, Petroheimo and MSK, but that's what we have to do, and that's our priority tasks in the next period. What's the key thing is reforming public enterprises. Twenty-three public enterprises, the founder of Serbia, ten limited-responsibility companies and four shareholders whose founder is Serbia, who are active in the general interest and 691 public enterprises whose founder is an autonomous province, i.e. local self-government units, have been registered. The planned activities for the next period are: continuing the process of restructuring public enterprises in a way established in individual corporate and financial restructuring plans, introducing corporate governance in the work of public enterprises that should contribute to increasing their efficiency by reducing unnecessary resource spending, increasing the scope and improving the quality of services by modernising technology, professionalising management and labour control systems. In this respect, the following is planned in the following period: drawing up a comparative functional analysis by looking at the situation in public enterprises and capital companies whose founder is Serbia, establishing the degree of knowledge and skills associated with corporate governance among members of supervisory boards and directors of those enterprises, setting out recommendations for the continuation of the corporate governance process, establishing rules for the introduction of a licensing system for directors and members of supervisory boards in public undertakings. Guidelines for the development of the annual business programme for public enterprises provide for restrictive measures in the planning of part of the cost of business. The current situation in the preparation of the structural reform plan. In order to reform public enterprises, a restructuring of major systems in the transport and energy sector has been led to their orientation towards market principles of functioning, and this is, of course, the EPS, "Serbian railway" and "Serbian rail" within the framework of an arrangement with the IMF, Serbia has committed to introducing a principle of sound budgetary constraints in the business of these companies. The government adopted corporate restructuring programmes for these major systems to improve their organisational structure and management system, as well as to reduce the negative impact on public finances and the rest of the economy. The railway company Serbia is divided into four railway companies: infrastructure management, passenger transport, goods transport and holding companies. A study was adopted by the government's inter-resor working group, which also contains a plan for reforming the railway in 2016-2020, and which provides a framework for the continuation of the process of restructuring labour force, property and the obligation of the "Train of Serbia". The required number of employees in railway companies has been identified in co-operation with the World Bank and other international financial institutions. With regard to the restructuring of the public undertaking EPS, the reorganisation programme and the financial consolidation plan have been adopted, a new organisation structure has been established in such a way that seven companies for electricity production have joined the EPS and five dependent companies for the distribution of electricity have been merged into the EPS distribution system operator d.o.o. Belgrade. There is an EPS supply company, as well as a company with the status of a foreign business company EPS trading, as well as a company in accordance with the provisions of the Brussels Agreement of August 2015. Of course, after the process of reorganisation and financial consolidation has been completed, an EPS legal status change will take place in a stock company. With regard to the restructuring of "Srbigas" the initial restructuring grounds for "Srbigas" were adopted in December 2014, a new organisational structure was established that includes the existence of independent companies for transport, i.e. natural gas distribution, transport of gas Serbia d.o.o. New Now and gas distribution Serbia d.o.o. The preparation of a comprehensive financial consolidation plan with consolidation with the World Bank is under way, with the aim of defining the measures needed to achieve the longer-term financial sustainability and competitiveness of "Srbigas". What I'm trying to say to you is that the biggest problems, of course, we're going to have because of our size, because it's the largest company in the Republic of Serbia, it's the Elektroprivred of Serbia. But I think with both management and trade unions in the previous days, we've managed to make important arrangements. There are severances at different levels, and at different levels we also count years of internships for people with a well-fused working experience, especially for miners, for workers in production. Today, if I may say so in front of the citizens of Serbia, I am somewhat more optimistic about progress and success in the reorganisation of Serbia's Elektroprivreda than I was yesterday. Point four - investments to strong agriculture and sustainable village. Agriculture and rural development - focus on medium-sized holdings to become competitive and exports, improve technology, apply standards in export products, marketing. Given the importance of agriculture for the national economy in which it participates with 10% in GDP, 21% in exports and 20% in labour, a successful response to agricultural challenges is imperative. Such an answer was not right to this day. Serbia's agriculture paradox is seen in the stagnation of growth despite a significant increase in exports. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How many other sides? I still have 143 pages left here. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We have another 30) Because you had 60. I told you it's about 260-270. I skipped something else. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: When will we get this second to prepare? I told them to do it in the day so you'd have to get ready to read all night. (Vojislav Seselj, from place: So all night again...) As far as you're concerned, I'm sure you'll sleep. You've been sleeping under a lot of difficult circumstances. Maybe you didn't understand me. This is what I commended Mr. Seselj. The key challenges in this area in Serbia concern the unfavourable structure of agricultural holdings, the technical and technological backlog of part of the agriculture sector, mostly medium and small holdings, the weak organisation of cooperatives, as well as the underdeveloped food industry, whose production is based on low-processing products. Don't worry, I'll have to tell certain parts of my head, not because of you, but because I just couldn't, now it's four, more than four hours, eight hours I couldn't stand it, so don't worry. It's a good thing Mr. Seselj admitted that he could use a break. [[Vojislav Seselj, from place: One 15 minutes break...]] Well, that's why there's no break, but I'm going on. Therefore, there is a technical and technological backlog of the agricultural sector, but also of the food industry. As trade with the EU is now fully open, low performance of the food industry could be a limiting factor in the chain of agricultural production and processing. With regard to the average yield of cereals, Serbia is in line with the low-income European countries – 4.8 tonnes per hectare, and we are almost double behind Belgium's most successful 9.2 tonnes per hectare. It is, of course, the result of inadequate technology, especially in small holdings, but also in inadequate cultures or types of agricultural production in certain agricultural areas and small holdings. The structure of the land is unfavourable because the largest number of land units is small or medium size and practices extensive production. Of the total number of holdings, only 3.1% is more than 20 hectares and covers 44% of the used agricultural land. On the other hand, the holdings up to five hectares account for 77.7% of the total number and use 25.2% of the land. Such farms are, of course, small to be competitive, both for direct sale on European markets and for the sale of raw materials to agro-processors. Serbia's current agricultural policy does not favour large producers in terms of small and medium, except that agricultural producers involved in production in areas with difficulties in agricultural work are in a more favourable position when applying for incentives. Serbia's agriculture is well mechanized in terms of tractor numbers and strength. However, tractors in medium and small land were mostly used and worn out, and a lack of specialized agricultural machinery is present. The equipment of livestock accommodation facilities is very uneven and is primarily conditioned by the degree of specialization and size of the herd. Large regional differences are also present. Investment agriculture, incentives for employment, social cohesion and sustainable rural development. The burden of wrong decisions from the past is taken by the government of the Republic of Serbia as an exceptional opportunity and a commitment to offer a new agricultural policy a new start, although it will be very, very difficult. To achieve sustainable development, we must look beyond the short-term objectives. We cannot allow agriculture to be put to sleep on state spending, while Europe invests in competitiveness and modernisation of farms. So, to be perfectly honest, we were giving and I remember how much Snow White was struggling to explain that we were able to pay up to 50% of the price for a single combination, to give money, a grant. But they don't want people in a combination, they want to give 1,000 or 2,000 dinars more. That money usually ends up being spent in the first store, instead of ending up on the property. That's what we have to change about ourselves. We'll have a little more money than we had, not because the minister is more successful than someone else, but because we're in a better fiscal situation, but that doesn't mean we're throwing money away. We will support the grants much more than before building new and modernising existing facilities for keeping animals on farms, storage, cooling, cleaning, drying, freezing, classification and packaging of products, protected areas for producing fruit material, fruit, vegetables, medicinal plants and flowers, raising new multi-annual plantings and vineyards, buying new agricultural vehicles, machinery and equipment, improving existing, as well as building and equipping new irrigation systems. It is a policy that we also advocate in collaboration with leading international financial institutions, such as the World Bank and the European Bank for Development and the European Investment Bank or the German Development Bank. The government will support investments in agriculture through the development of adequate financial instruments and the most favourable loans to help farmers and processors invest in their production for greater competitiveness and implementation of structural adjustments. The amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and the adoption of a Regulation on the long-term lease of state agricultural land on the basis of investments will continue with key reforms in agriculture. The local self-government regulation has given its citizens special responsibility to provide a transparent, precise and clear procedure for achieving the right of the lease championship with a decision to give consent to investment projects that will support the economic and social development of the local community in the most appropriate way. Opening new markets. We will seek to enable farmers and the food industry to access new markets efficiently, and today I have also talked about the untapped potentials of both the Russian market and the BRIK countries, but of course by increasing our exports to the European Union. We will strengthen the border crossing and simplify the procedures for imports and exports. We'll improve the information systems in the wind and protect plants, where we see the biggest problem. In the wind, so when I was talking about the food safety system, it was like a public and private lab infrastructure. We need to focus ourselves on the additional value of agricultural products, protecting geographical origin and branding, supporting organic and integrated production -- will be the guidelines of a new agricultural policy. The aim of all measures of the Serbian government is to abolish unnecessary procedures, bring food safety standards into line with trade partners and expand Serbian products on foreign markets. We're going to have to start another dialogue sometime, because these stories of genetically-defined food, and every day we're eating genetically modified food, and we pretend to be some of the biggest protectors, and because of that, we can't carry anything out, and because of the injections for swine fever, we can't take our pigs out and we pretend we're very smart and very different from everyone else, and in fact, we don't know a lot of it or we protect the interests of certain large companies, certain large companies, tycoon interests, and we don't do anything for the common peasant and our country. You will notice that any initiative on this issue would come across stronger resistance and scarier resistance in all the media that immediately donate these companies, which I can also talk about tomorrow in response to the questions of the MPs, and lead to a move against anyone who thinks we're part of the World Trade Organisation, to make better business plans, etc. Hey, don't do that, that'll ruin our chances, that won't give us healthy food, you'll destroy Serbia. They talk nonsense, they say the most pointless things. Do you know what a cherry tomato is? Modification of the genes of one disgusting animal and one plant and we eat it now and we enjoy it and we talk about eating genetically unmodified food and we're very smart. Now tell me, which one of you hasn't eaten? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What animal is it? You wouldn't like it, it doesn't go with a barrel. Over the last few years, we have witnessed a harmful impact that sudden competition in the EU's liberalised market, of course, can be on our agricultural producers. The current spillover of the milk and pork crisis from Europe to Serbia, that we currently do not have enough advanced instruments to deal with market disturbances. We responded each time and did literally everything we could to protect the native peasant. We did so in this way, to be quite open to you, honourable MPs, that we were taking measures that were partly contrary to EU regulations and we knew that they were partly contrary to EU regulations because we had no choice. We would destroy the entire dairy industry of Serbia, destroy the entire meat industry, the complete meat industry, especially the pig tollers, and that was the biggest problem. As far as we could react, the state and government have reacted, and we will take the burden of responsibility to the EU for breaking their rules. Protecting against the risks of climate change. More and more extreme weather events and changes in temperatures affect agricultural cultures and agricultural producers' incomes. The reduction in yields that can go up to 40% is especially expected on agricultural land with insufficient or inadequate irrigation systems. That is why we need actions in which the Government will support hosts through active measures and financial instruments and support farmers in irrigating its properties, help to introduce the necessary technologies, such as city protection networks, drop-by- drop systems, mobile irrigation systems, as well as implement measures to improve the protection of land. In the next four years, in collaboration with farmers and the food industry, the Ministry of Agriculture will work to achieve the following concrete objectives: to mobilise up to one billion euros in investments to modernise farms, equipment and machinery, storage facilities of primary production and processing, mobilise up to a billion euros in investments based on long-term lease of agricultural land, double the export of agricultural and food products to five billion euros and contribute to at least 200,000 small agricultural holdings becoming economically sustainable under the conditions of the liberalised market. Connecting to other markets in the region in the world, traffic infrastructure. Many times we've all said that traffic infrastructure is contitio son qua non of every progress and I've repeated it countless times, and I say today. So what's the difference between all of us? If you ask any directors of any company in our country or in the world where you'd rather open up a company and hire people, in a country with destroyed roads and bridges or in the one with highways, fast tracks, Internet and good schools, you all know what kind of answer we're going to get. When we've taken over infrastructure projects in the previous term, of course, which is what the next one will say, but it seems to me that the completed kilometers can speak more precisely, but you'll always listen, and that's why I'm very angry and I'm going to talk about it tomorrow, some things that are happening on our corridors and in our travel infrastructure at all, but it's probably a habit for 30, 40, 50 and 60 years, that no deadline is respected and that whatever you agree, there's always enough reason why that deadline is exceeded. Most often it's wrong planning, bad projects, third time it's unforeseen situations, water, water sources in tunnels, the fourth time it's fallen whole hill, i.e. the ice glider has appeared, the hill is down, the fifth is – there's been a three-day payment, and because of that three-day late transport of goods, it's been six months, and that's how it's going. We faced something better in the previous period, and so we built a few miles and roads and tracks, but that's not good enough, although I'm proud of it, as Prime Minister, which you can go through and when you go to Greece and when you go to Bulgaria, when you go to Zlatibor, you see what's done, you see how much work is done. I don't think it's ever worked again, but it has to be better and it has to be more. Two months ago, I was told something was going to be open in August. It won't be open in August, it'll be open in October, because they lied to me. If they lied to the Prime Minister, and I asked them ten times, then you might think they're lying to everyone else. So now all of you will go who have lied in such a way. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is promised by Velimir Ilic. ) It was not promised by Velimir Ilic, it was not promised by Mrkonjic, I was with other people two months ago when they promised to do so, so they lied to me, so much so you know. Don't throw it away. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I don't throw anything away, I'm just asking.) ) Zorana has done her job decently and well, so she is there as many who are not there, and those who have done their job well, and those who have not done it in any way, whose work I am not satisfied with, will go away, and you will see it very soon, do not be impatient. Many times you've heard me say the names of places most people haven't heard of, and when I spoke to the Serbian House of Levosoje, they wondered why I repeat it so much. What is this new Serbian house, is it a Serb house, what is it? We'd go to Europe, and he'd go to the Serbian house of Levoso. But just so you know, we did it the fastest way we could end it, and if they double-crossed me for the deadline, of course, our companies. To understand why, it's a problem that everyone's faced, and it's a problem that everyone's lied about, because they finance their previous debts from every new job, and unless you give him a new job, even though that job isn't done, he won't be able to finish the current job. Isn't that right, Grouchy? That's right. Now, that's a disaster. Now, that's going to change nicely, and I guarantee it, because I'm going to do it myself, but I'm literally going to do it personally because I can't stand that kind of insolence. Because if we were to say "Planum" tomorrow -- sorry, you didn't do your job right, you didn't do it right, they're not gonna end two or three very important objects at this point. Why? Well, because there's no money. They spent, they ate their future, and so did the Star and Partizan. Ask them about the contracts with Telecom by 2018. Eat the future of some children by 2018 or some new leadership. Well, that's what our construction companies do, and they're used to it. Great, we'll find some new ones. We helped everyone to survive, we gave up more work than anyone has ever done, and to cheat us, to deceive us, to be late in Golupac, to be late for one, to be late for another. We're less late than ever, so much so you know, and yet my anger won't diminish the rage of all normal people when they see they're unable to respect any of the deadlines. Everyone can laugh at me to tell you the truth about it. When we're done with this government's mandate, you'll be able to go to the Bulgarian border on the highway from Horgos, you can go from Shid. So, you will, you will be able to go to the Macedonian border on the highway everywhere and through the Grdelička gorge, where we are missing 28.6 kilometers plus 9.8 kilometers left-wing Serbian house today, we are all finished. We've opened the Grabovnica - the Gredilla ravine. So, all this will be done as you will be able to go to Cačka, I hope to see Požega before the end of this government's mandate at least on the highway where both Zlatibor and Zlatar and many other Serbian tourist centres will be available. And that will be the result of this government. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Will this be a full mandate? ) It's better with you, Mr. Seselj, that I don't beat you four more times. This way, after that full term, I can get out of your way and give you a chance to get somewhere else, and that's just a chance. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It was a shift generation in the wrong direction. ) In addition to what I have said, infrastructure projects are important, we will complete the construction of the Drina Bridge from Love to Bratunac. The project began in October 2015. It will be completed with all access routes by November 2017. Also, the Željev Bridge in Novi Sad will be open for traffic in the first half of next year. We've had a lot of problems in the relationship between the Republic, the city and the province, and now all these problems are smooth and everything is going well. In addition to building new highways, a project is under way to restore part of the road network and improve traffic safety. The need to rehabilitate the network stems from the fact that over the past two decades the maintenance of our roads has been partially neglected. It's been spent as much as it could be spent, and today we're forced to compensate for this accumulated backlog. This important initiative worth 49.2 billion dinars, around 400m euros will allow us to rehabilitate 158km of roads by the summer of this year, until autumn to start work for an additional 67km. During 2017 and 2018, we will intensify the rehabilitation work so that a total of 1,100 km of roads will be restored by 2019, with the number of traffic accidents significantly reduced as a result of this intervention. Over the next four years, we will invest 369 billion dinars, three billion euros in railway infrastructure, rehabilitate, modernise, build a total of 874km of rail. In 2015, our railway network carried 17 million passengers and 12 million tons of cargo. When we modernise the railways, complete the reform program, we expect a 30% increase in rail traffic. We're going to invest 115.7 billion dinars or 941 million euros in the modernisation of rails and rail vehicles. This will include 27 new diesel fuel trains, seven multi-system locomotives and a remont of 23 electric locomotives. We'll also remount 400 cargo wagons. This year we begin construction of the Belgrade-Bipest track, works on Stara Pazova shares – Novi Sad, which are financed from the Russian loan. For the first time in history, Serbia will become part of a European fast track network with a double track that will reach a speed of up to 200km. We have already begun the reconstruction of the Resnik – Valjevo section, 77 kilometers after which we start to reconstruct the rest of the part from Valjev to Vrbnica at the border with Montenegro. The plan also includes reconstruction and the Stalac-Junis shares on the Belgrade line – Nis and modernisation of the Nis railway – Dimitrovgrad within which construction of a railway bypass is planned around Nis. As far as the Nis – Presevo railway is concerned, there are three parts of the rehabilitation work in progress. It's through the Russian railroad and the Russian loan. We will continue with the second phase of reconstruction of the Belgrade Prokop railway station. In 2014, Nikola Tesla Airport broke all records in the number of passengers. For the first time, we had 4.6 million passengers a year. We're expecting 4.8 million passengers this year. We believe the Belgrade airport is the fastest growing airport in Europe. We believe that right now, whether the government will decide, and I think it is closest to deciding on the concession model of airport management, we will provide new investments of at least 700m euros and an additional inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget is understood. "Er Serbia" currently flies to 44 destinations for the transport of passengers and cargo across Europe and the Mediterranean and the Middle East, and so far has proved to be one of the three safest and safest European airlines. The creation of jobs in the air traffic sector is not limited by our air carrier but extends to companies and accompanying services that turn Serbia into a hub of air traffic for the whole region. We believe this airport business will be completed by mid-2017. A year. As for telecommunications infrastructures in the Republic of Serbia, which form electronic communications resorts through which electronic communications services are provided for citizens, businesses and public sectors, it is necessary to systematically regulate both the regulatory framework and the areas of investment so that Serbia can reach EU countries at the speeds of the Internet flow. In view of this, it is believed that the investment in the electronic communications sector will be one of the most significant incentives for GDP growth, the reduction of the unemployment rate, the modernisation of society, the digital agenda for Europe predicts that by the end of 2020 100 of the EU's population has a wide-ranging approach of more than 30 megabits, i.e. 50% of the population has access to very fast, wide-ranging connections with speeds greater than 100 megabits. In 2015, 70% of all households in the European Union had wide-ranging internet access. According to Eurostat, only 56% of households in Serbia, it is the source of the Republic Statistics Institute. We should be equal by 2020, and according to what has been defined as digital agents for the Republic of Serbia with the countries of the European Union. Of course, it is necessary to reduce administrative costs, simplify procedures for obtaining the necessary permits to build optical networks that will enable joint use of existing capacities. There is already a built network of optical systems in Serbia that have not been used enough, so it is necessary to provide conditions for them to be put into office. Currently, an untapped network of cables with 80 knots has been built on a network of long-range power lines of 6000km. This network represents a backbone for the formation of a national broadband network. It is possible to connect state and local institutions through existing nodes. In addition to administrative authorities and education institutions, science and culture are significantly lagging behind developed countries in terms of these infrastructure equipment. Tourism, IT services, creative industry and cultural centre. One additional opportunity to create new jobs, which today in Serbia has not been sufficiently exploited by tourism. Serbia has an extraordinary climate, natural beauty, rich history, a significant tourist potential that can be used more significantly. I am sure that we will be able to achieve even better results in the coming period. In this sector today, 32,000 people are working and indirectly generates another 48,000 jobs for our citizens. We've done a lot of things in the last period. We have cumulative growth of an average of 12.5% every year. So, to what we achieve in 2013 we have a new 12% growth, in 2014, we have a new 12% growth rate. Since 2012. The number of arrivals by foreign tourists is why it has increased by 40%. In the first six months of this year, we had 1.3 million tourists who came to Serbia, up from 12.7% compared to the same period in 2015. We achieved a record foreign exchange inflow from tourism last year, which amounted to 945,000 euros. Compared to the previous year, 9.5% growth was recorded. This trend of growth is just the beginning of a strong development of tourism. Our goal is to reach 9.6 million overnights, to make the contribution of the tourism industry 5% in 2020, which is twice as much as we have today. The most important thing is that by achieving 5% of GDP, we would make and generate new 20,000 jobs, which is of priority for the Republic of Serbia. We'll invest in the next four years, set it up, that'll be one of our real priorities, and represent our capacities, our potentials. I want to inform you, if I'm not mistaken, Rasim, in a month you should all know, who you are going abroad, for a famous book, the DKEYewitness Travel brochure will come out for the first time in Serbia. We didn't have it, it wasn't anyone's initiative, it was the joint initiative of Minister Ljajic and mine to go with it. We sent them a memo and soon such a book will appear for the first time in world bookstores and all other places in the Republic of Serbia, which will certainly contribute to the inflow of tourists into our country. At the same time, we will have to better define our priorities, not to go with the offer of everything, but to single out areas where we can especially attract tourists and insist on it. A lot has been done through Exit, Guchu, many of our manifestations, but what we haven't used so far, or least used, and what we can use, it's a Danube as an important potential. That's why we invested so much money in Golubac and Gradište, we will invest much more and not only in Golubac and Gradište, but in all municipalities, so from Apatin to Kladov and Negotin and try to attract a huge number of tourists from Germany and Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, who want to see the Danube, the beauty of the Danube from Kazan to everything around the Danube itself we can offer, from the Goluba Fortress, Lepensko Vira, Tabula Trajana to today's remains of the old bridge found from the Roman period, not far from Kladov, I think they can be both the rights and the best, Viminium, of course, can be the best invitation for everyone. At the same time, we will see to it that we strengthen our mountainous and banish potentials. The mountain potential with Belgrade is growing rapidly, the Banian potentials in Vrnjačka Banja dramatically, but we will have to see what to do with what we have found, closed, destroyed and destroyed, such as the Mataruska Banja and many other spas, Bogatovačka Banja, with extraordinary potentials, with good potentials, which simply in the privatisation process were completely torn apart in 2001, 2002 and 2003, that there is absolutely nothing there today. Technology and the IT industry in Serbia are growing at high speed. There are 2200 IT companies in Serbia who employ more than 19,000 people, and this is as much as 10% growing on an annual new one. Someone may think that 19 000 jobs are low, but these companies contribute to more than 43 billion dinars annually, when it comes to the revenues Serbia is making from exports. We can't compare ourselves, we can't measure ourselves with Israel, we can't measure ourselves with some other countries, but it's certainly that we've got a lot more than we've invested here, and that's why, above all, in our education system, we're going to have to invest more in our education system. In the past two years, over six and a half thousand young people have been trained through specialized programmes in IT and other sectors. These programs have trained young people with skills they need not only to fill the gap in the labour market, but also to get a well-paid job in their local community. As an example, I can quote Zorana Lazarevic, who was a doctor at Nis College, and then realized she couldn't get a job as a music teacher. Her life turned completely around when she discovered the training program from information and communication technologies. After the six-month programme and several dozen other students in Nis and Novi Sad, they acquired advanced IT skills, although it was difficult, especially due to lack of experience in the sector. Zorana worked hard and managed to complete the program as one of the best participants. Soon she received a well-paid job at the local IT company, and then won a $30,000 prize for the best start-up idea at a abroad competition. Now she plans to start her own IT business, has time and money to deal with music. Such an example is also Mladen Djordjevic, who obtained a degree in IT engineers, for a long time could not find a job, joined Zrenjanin on the program "Educate to Work" and then got a job as a junior programmer in the local IT company. Instead of leaving Zrenjanin, he stayed and helped form a local programming market. In the coming years, we will take the following steps – introducing information in primary school material, as is done in 13 EU countries and in all Protestant Scandinavian countries. There have been stories about this and in public, here's to stop it now, in the term of this government, the information will be introduced as a mandatory subject to the basics of school, in primary education, and we'll end it. In order to ensure effective reform of the curriculum, we will soon co-operate with the National Education Council and make sure that the curricula in Serbian schools paves the way for well-paid jobs for young people in the IT sector. The expansion of the pilot program where the specialized "tweet", so it is the technical-dual education of the school in Novi Sad, has a four-year curricula focused on IT. So far, we have a small number of these schools, technical-dual education, which brings up 1600 graduates a year, which will be able to get a job on these well-paid jobs. We will work on reforming this curricula to ensure that it focuses on education of students who can get a job at exactly those best paid jobs, funds for IT professors in colleges and for the "tweet" programmes mentioned. We will also have to train young people in Serbia to work on these best-paid jobs, make sure that those who transfer knowledge are paid enough. We'll do a review to determine if there is a lack of IT professors and if there is one that would be market-friendly and suitable pay. We're going to explore the mechanisms to provide incentives for colleges and higher schools to hire these teachers, because, you know, that's one of the biggest problems we're facing today. We will also establish partnerships with international leaders in technology training such as Microsoft and Apple in order to co-operate with them and use their expertise in training young people in Serbia for future jobs. As for sports, we've had record successes in the last two and a half years, and now that I know, now many will say that now the Olympics is not going, wait a little longer... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Because Thomas went also to Dragica. I just want to tell you the opposite, which is to be patient and show some faith in our athletes. What Serbia could provide, Serbia has provided, the largest prize in the region. We've given a lot to prepare our athletes for the Olympics, just so you know. We have allocated serious money from the Republic of Serbia's budget to prepare our athletes for the Olympics, bigger than ever, and I believe that by the end of the Olympics, we will ensure the greatest success in all the Olympics so far, and we will prepare for the next Olympics. We saw where we were wrong in certain sports, where we could get more medals with less investment, as some in our neighborhood did with so-called. Flying targets, etc. So I believe that for the next Olympics we will be even more incomparably prepared. What is now important is that there is no day of late payments for around 550 national recognitions, no day, and about 350 scholarships at the annual level and for all programmes of the national alliances. We've provided money for all our athletes who participate in the Olympics. I wish they'd done a little more and a little bit harder in certain sports institutions, but what do you do, it's always there for everyone to lecture the state and the government, and we're forbidden to notice that something could've been done a little better. We have succeeded in combating negative phenomena in sports, which is much more important than any medal won. We are taking note of major progress in the fight against doping in sport, primarily thanks to the fact that Serbia has brought among the first countries the modern Doping Prevention Act, whose implementation covers all participants in the system of sports, and that the Antidoping Agency of Serbia is one of the best organised institutions of this type throughout Europe. Serbia's Sports and Medicine Institute has gained the status of a national training centre, which further extends its capacities through the revitalisation of Kartash, if I am not mistaken, thus creating the best conditions for the uninterrupted preparation of our athletes. In addition, the Institute has greatly improved the work in the field of sports medicine through active international co-operation, continuous human development and improvement and capacity expansion. In the area of funding for sports infrastructure, we've really done a lot. An athletic hall was built in Belgrade, where we will host the European Championship, four physical halls in schools in Kraljena, Šapac, Užica, new sports facilities in Raška, Svrljag, Kursumlia, Ljig, Vlasotinca, Beli Palanca, Bojnik, Kruševec, Kragujevac, Vršac, Čuprija, Zrenjanin, Smederjevska Palanca, Vrnjačka Banja, Novi Pazar, Tutin. A large and serious reconstruction of the Youth Sports Centre "Karataš" was launched, as I said, and the terrains in Krupnje, Ljubovija, Tutin, Arilj, Kučevo, Negotina, Velika Plana and Titell were reconstructed. Construction of sports infrastructure will also be funded using EU funds from IPA funds. An additional 23 sports facilities in 23 local self-government units will be reconstructed and refurbished, as well as 25 children's playgrounds according to high-set standards for child safety, and work will continue to build national training centres for water polo, volleyball and basketball. We have invested particularly huge money in Vrnjačka Banja, with which we will continue, which brings great income to Vrnjačka Banja and will especially bring in the future. I want to say that the Ministry of Sports is working on a program to make children more of a physical education, because today we're free of fields and basketball and football, and there's no one on those fields. When we were young, though, it was a long time ago, you had to wait in work to come play a game of basketball, and now there's no one around all day. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: They are now not going to the physical either. Well, if that's the case, Mr. Palma, they don't go to physical either, then I'm even more concerned. Anyway, it's a big job for the Department of Sports. Serbia as a cultural centre for Serbian, Slovenian, Balkan and European traditions. Art and culture are Serbia's window facing the world and the international cultural public. We are proud to show our achievements in every artistic area, without exception. That's why, one of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Culture, to be quite open, this job was started in the previous term, now it remains to be controlled on the daily level, because the works were finally launched, following failed tender procedures, muggings, hangings of various people who wanted to get a job, and then cancel the procedure, and then evo-new. It's all over now. The National Museum of the Republic of Serbia must be completed within 540 days, as foreseen by the treaty, the Museum of Contemporary Art also. But what is very important is that culture must be moved and not only be in downtown Belgrade or only Belgrade, but also in other centres and cities, from Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Sudotica, Leskovci, Zrenjanin, Kraljev, Pancheva, Čačka, Valjeva, Smedereva, every other city. It is precisely, according to this, that we are going to try and help different cultural events across the Republic of Serbia because culture must also be experienced by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not just those who have the privilege of living in our capital. Secondly, remember that when we talk about these key cultural institutions, we increase our tourist offer, thereby strengthening our offer of services. What was once very important to us and for all the children who came from the side, it is the first time you go to the National Museum, visit the National Museum, the National Theatre. Only later do you go to Calemegdan to see what Belgrade has done, so what Toma Rosandic, Simeon Roksandic, did one, the other or the third. This, unfortunately, has been standing for ten years, and works started on July 25th of this year and run from that day to 540 days. Construction works are worth a billion dinars, so people don't think they're some kind of tiny repairs. The billion dinars are about 8.3m euros today. The construction site for the reconstruction of the Museum of Contemporary Art began on August 1st of this year. Since August 15th, works on adaptation, reconstruction and construction of the building are being carried out, worth around 700m dinars. As far as information is concerned, the area expects a continuation of reforms. We will implement the adopted media strategy in general, end the withdrawal of the state from the media, find a sustainable solution for financing public services, because what we have today with public services, and that when someone reports for short-term loans, for liquidity loans, you see that this is not a sustainable business and you see that there are countless problems. I'd be a hypocrite if I said it was the current leadership's fault, but it's years and decades in which everyone keeps it as a political tool and a weapon where no one can say anything about it, and people's money is being spent. They must behave incomparably more responsibly and see how and how responsibly they spend our money. As they ask me -- how we spend money as the Government of Serbia, so I'm going to ask them nicely, because we end up writing in the general deficit how much ours have spent, how much they've spent on stupidity, and how much on smart stuff. I don't mind, let the series be done, let the series be recorded, the cultural shows, it's all right, but you can't have 1,000 or 1500 employees more than you need, you can't throw money at nonsense and don't take short-term liquidity loans. Find a way to get a long-term loan so you can solve that problem, but now, what am I gonna do? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Vojni Bujosevic. Sadly, he is not the one who has contributed most to such a situation today, otherwise it would have been easier for me to resolve. Also, as far as freedom of the press, media freedoms, it's precious in the civil and democratic fluids. For each of us who has accepted the duty to answer the people's trust with selfless commitment, the issue of freedom of the press is not asked, it is understood, its development is supported and respected. Of course, the question of responsibility is important. I'd like it to go against freedom of expression and all media freedoms, but you'd better have, if you have to choose what's less evil, it's better to have less responsibility than lack of freedom. Despite all the different stories of censorship, self-censorship, the media in Serbia have been completely freed from any type of pressure, as I have said, unfortunately, infrequently and every kind of responsibility. We will behave as we have done so far, in no way exerting pressure. Despite the fact that I have experienced or survived, and personally the greatest number of pointless insults, slanders, lies, falseness, I have never filed any lawsuits, no action against any media because it is the public authority's procedure to suffer, but of course they have the right to answer that. I think the right to answer is a key right for everyone, and it is our job to continue to do everything possible on the development of a different opinion and the possibility of this different opinion reaching every citizen of this country. What I would say for us is, most important and what I wrote most about is education reform, because it's human capital for the future, and we have to learn, learn. We need to raise knowledge to a pedestal from which you can see further and from which you can move on to new campaigns, to acquire new knowledge. Anatol Frans said that education is not about how much you remember or how much you know, but about how much you can tell how much you know and how much you don't. It's the only way to make constant mistakes. It's the only way to the new force this country needs. It's a way to know what boundaries and when we can move ways to increase our own capacities. Knowledge should guide this country, knowledge should shape it and set goals for it. Before that, we all have to learn how much we don't know. We need to accept that unpleasant fact and learn how to change it. It is not a basic problem that our knowledge is relative to all other young people, that we learned to read and write some 150 years ago and that almost 1,000 years later we founded a university and began to practice science. It's an advantage that's pretty easy and quick to make up for today. The problem is something else. The problem is that we are used to our own ignorance and that in some way we enjoy this ignorance, that we have placed it as a rapper and that we do not allow knowledge to break through, which when they tell us that a Dutchman speaks seven languages, our comment is – he sees a fool, which when someone tells us to do 12 or 13 hours, our comment is – sees a fake and a liar, because we can't imagine someone working 12 hours, because we can't imagine anyone speaking seven languages, because we don't succeed. And thanks to that, we've come into a paradoxical situation, and everyone here is convinced they know everything, regardless of what happens sometimes they don't know anything. So we don't have any specialized knowledge, we don't have enough experts, we don't have a master of our craft, we have those who are able to perfect knowledge and carry it on. We all know, in one word for everything we're experts, we have an attitude about everything, but when there's a fact and a solution, to when something really needs to be done, that's where we reveal that terrible fact that we don't know it. I'll remind you of the deficit story, the growth story. The welcomes and lectures in this House have been given to us by those who have led us to minus 3.6% of the growth and those who have led us to the deficits of 5, 6, and 8%. When we were able to turn it all around that we didn't have a deficit and that our growth was plus 2.6%, and not minus 3.6%, they explain to us that it wasn't good and that it's better to go back to when it all went down to minus. What do you want? That's our nature. This must change in Serbia, and that is the most important task, to learn to learn, to specialize, to discover new fields of knowledge, to become frames to solve. When we learn that, we will have generations of salvation that will not seek to escape from problems or to subdue problems. We'll have a generation of frames to solve them. It is, if someone has not understood, the best way for young people to stay in this country, to have reason to stay and to know what they will do with themselves and what they will do with it, to know the solution. That's what education reform is for, and that's why we're going to implement it, to get generations with solutions, generations able to respond to every task, to develop and preserve their country, to prepare the right way for those who come after them. Knowledge is, in other words, a continuous flow in which we must re-engage. We have to become part of it so we can use its fruits. We must prevent a stream of ignorance and negligence from taking us away, to realize that only knowledge allows everything to remain in the corridor, to flow peacefully, to produce fruit and to lead to the goal. Education contributes to the country's social economic development to the greatest extent and is the most profitable investment in long-term well-being. It promotes innovation, provides young people with the necessary skills to compete in global proportions, which is the key reason for the development of a society. In the current system, our expenditure on education, which is about 5.2% of GDP, is relatively high in international comparisons, while the outcomes of education, for example, are measured by the PISA test, is the International Programme for the Evaluation of student achievements, which is carried out every two years by the OECD based on a standardised methodology, incomparably lower than those that would justify our level of investment. If only you had in mind, we're spending this on wages. I think 91% of our education budget goes to pay and with so many salaries we pay, in that sector we have very, very low and very bad results. These are things that have to change in the next period and I don't care what anyone says and I don't care how many strikers and I don't care how many politicians they like to bring, because ability and knowledge have to overcome incompetence and unhappiness. What is important, objective one, is to coordinate the outcome of the educational system with the needs of the labour market, increase quality, relevance of education and training. As regards higher education reforms, particular emphasis must be placed on the importance of the study programmes, as the unemployment rate of graduates with higher education is 40%, while emigration of young people and professionals is high. That is why every serious reform of education begins with a reform of higher education, in order to focus more on competitiveness, orientation towards final results, innovations, as well as on a map of the path towards funding that is targeted by impact. One of the first laws on which the work is intensively started is the law on higher education and expect to be here in parliament before the end of 2016. Greater mobility of students and teachers is a prerequisite for increasing the competitiveness of our higher school institutions. Changes in the Law on Higher Education and their implementation of the work of higher school institutions are becoming more transparent. A national repository of doctoral dissertations was developed, which in the meantime became the largest treasure of knowledge in the region. It has changed the way in which diplomas acquired abroad have been recognised in a cheaper and more efficient way, in order to remove the barrier for the return of experts from abroad, but all this is still not enough, because we are facing a growing competitive global market. We need to make sure that our students are ready to compete on the global market, not to succeed in Serbia, to satisfy parents or their own vanity, to run after diplomats, but to be ahead of their peers in the region with their knowledge. We will focus on fostering key skills, such as critical thinking, problem solving, and IT that will encourage the employment of those who finish schooling. The quality of higher education needs to be improved, the introduction of stricter, I repeat more stringent, binding criteria for selecting teachers at national level, which all universities would have to meet, as well as tightening, for example, as used by the University of Belgrade, the conditions for accreditation and the drastic improvement of the system of compliance with the conditions for accreditation. Currently, the rate of enrolment in Serbia's universities is 50% of the total number of graduates in Central and Eastern Europe, which is over 60%. A few years ago, a decade ago, the University of Belgrade was the most prestigious institution in the region that attracted students from around the world. Today he is on the Shanghai list, but we will have to work hard to restore standards of excellence at Belgrade University. By 2020, the goal is to ranks among other world universities and to make Belgrade a regional education centre. The government is currently giving scholarships to over 100,000 students, and more than 30,000 students receive government scholarships every year for studies at state universities, but many of them can't find work when they graduate because they expect to get it in the state service, because we didn't give it a good way to divide people into thinking about the private sector, establishing their companies or working in the private sector. We will try to radically alter the way our universities function, so that those students who meet labour market requirements come out of them. By 2020, we will double the number of those who graduate from science, technology, engineering and mathematical areas. We will apply stricter certification procedures, accreditation for our institutions, to make sure that every programme prepares students for labour market requirements. Next year we will carry out a rapid assessment of the higher education sector with a view to this, this is a fundamental indicator of the impact on university institutions, including the degree rates and the possibility of graduates being employed in different areas, because this is what is most important. And now we come to the essence of what we should do and what should lead to better results in the next period. It is a reform of secondary vocational education and dual education. A young man, if he has no experience in a particular practice, finds it difficult to decide to start a business on his own, only 3% to 5% of young people will start their own jobs if they have not gained some working experience during their education, but in those environments where they have gained this experience, you will not believe, the percentage of young people who want to do so is between 15% and 20%, so three to four times more. This tendency towards entrepreneurship is developing exactly a dual model of education. Our dual model of education and its advantages, it was shown by foreign investors, friends and colleagues from Switzerland, Germany and Austria. When I was in Switzerland there, I was able to meet the governors of four American states, because Americans today see that their economy is proportional to the economy of Switzerland, Germany and Austria, precisely because of dual education, because Americans have also made college the highest goal anyone can achieve for their child. Not anymore today. In Switzerland, Germany and Austria it's not, be what you can make the most, wash the dishes if you can get 5,000 euros for it, you don't need a doctor's degree for it, if you're a doctor, if you're able to have a salary of 10,000, if you're not there anyone to help you, do something else. That's why we want to teach kids, teach teenagers to start working and develop a entrepreneurial spirit, and I don't care about protectors, I don't know what rights, this or that. It is the only way for Serbia to start, essentially to move forward and to ensure long-term growth, long-term and sustainable growth of our economy. A 14-, 15-year-old kid to see how it works at the factory, see how it works. People I've seen models, I can do it for tomorrow and I can prepare you to see how much Denmark, Switzerland, Germany and Austria are in front of other countries. The Netherlands today has a problem due to an inapplicable dual education which is one of the EU's three most developed countries. If we could make 1% of what they're applying and we could apply in our country, we'd do a lot of things. Unfortunately, there has been no interest in Serbian companies so far, and there was even less interest in our education and education system. Because that's what's taking down someone's privilege, because it's been destroying the established system for 50, 60 years, to keep me in my position, don't take in a young professor, don't take in one who knows more than I do, that I keep this mine, I'm fine and I'm fine. Guys, it can't be like that. We love you very much and we respect you, but you can't do that. Because that's how we lag behind, we lose the race in the region, let alone in developed Europe. About 1,300 businesses in Serbia today have some kind of co-operation with schools, but we have to get to 100,000 to make sense, not 1,300. We have to increase that by 80 times. And people on the other hand, we have to do it so we don't import labor. It takes us two more years, importing welders and plumbers. Maybe that sounds funny to you, the lawyers and managers won't, but the plumbers and the welders we'll be importing in two years if it continues like this. We won't be able to choose Mr. Seselj from where, because we'll be looking for you from Afghanistan, because we Serbs won't be able to be good plumbers if this continues. Preschool education, we do this, of course, with the Swiss Agency, for development we work with the German GIZ and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, we will continue. As for increasing the overall level of education, preschool education is very important. I still have insufficient access to preschool education, only 60% of children from three to five years of age are enrolled in preschool institutions. For example, in Bulgaria, more than 80% is registered in Romania, and then you understand how and how much we're going to have to invest to change that. Also, we will have to see how to increase from the poorest parts of Serbia participation in the work, i.e. attending preschool institutions across Serbia. I am also particularly grateful to the Novak Djokovic Foundation for improving early childhood education and will come from the president of Kim, the World Bank, along with them to launch these programmes in September, as well as UNICEF and all others. It's hard to talk, I can see my throat hurts already. As far as health care is concerned, in 2014 precisely because of numerous unrealised projects, untapped loans and donations, Serbian health care was considered the worst. It had the worst quality assessments in Europe. The challenge was in the past peridou to stop the health collapse in Serbia. I think that we have partially achieved this even though citizens, especially patients, still have very reason to be dissatisfied with the service. Thanks to what we have done over the past period, we have progressed six places in the European Health Consumer Index, with 554 points achieved, we have improved the overall score by 81 points compared to last year and made enviable progress in three key areas of patient rights, availability of healthcare and treatment outcomes. Although in 2016 we climbed three additional places on European indices, there are still many things left. Our spending on health care is terribly high. According to current data, we spend nearly 10% of our GDP on health care, which corresponds to 431 billion dinar figures, so we spend three and a half billion euros each year on health care. I don't know where or how we can get a deadlock to see a billion of us go missing somewhere. I don't know where or how. Just look at everything I've got, I'm really not able to tell me where it is, right now, to arrest everyone, to do everything. The money's gone somewhere. We don't offer a favor for those three and a half billion. We have much better public procurement than before. We have a problem with generic drugs. But if we went to generic medications, Mr. Seselj, it would be something more accessible to patients, but count on us to shut down Galenika and Hemofarm, if they didn't exist anymore. So there are a lot of problems that the government has to face and have to deal with, but it's not a key problem. It's impossible we couldn't get more facilities back up. Now, through the Public Investment Office, we're renewing health care facilities, rebuilding school institutions. I'm not going to give it up, and the last child going to a health home or an old man going to school doesn't have a proper toilet, so we're going to talk as much as they want me to be prime minister for the bathroom, but the prime minister for the clean toilet, unlike the ones they left for us, and we're going to keep doing it in the next period. We received the consent of the European Investment to the tender documentation for the first phase of the construction of the clinical centre and the tender was published in 29.12.2015 in the EU Journal, "Official Messenger of Serbia" and the portal of the Public Procurement Administration. The estimated investment value of works was 96.1m euros, covering a reconstruction of 86,000 square metres, a deadline of 31 months. We were able to get a more favourable purchase than estimated value, for about 20m euros, so at 75.46m euros, which scares me to tell you right away. Whatever my minister and all the experts tell you, that's the thing that scares me the most. Whenever we get that much more convincing offer, I know we have problems afterwards. I'm just waiting to see how it's gonna be. As early as 2017, citizens of Nis and the surrounding areas will be able to be proud of the new Nis Clinical Centre. The realisation of this investment took place up to two and a half years ago, and then we managed to bring this project into the final stage. We were able to provide funds for the completion of the work at the clinic for cardiosurgery of the Clinical Centre in Nis, which started in 2014 and so far carried out a hundred cardiosurgery interventions. Getting a gamma knife was a big deal. The golden standard of neurosurgery began in November last year, and for now it's really great results. More than 368 operations have been performed. We paid four million and 700 thousand euros for the treatment of 801 patients in Turkey in seven years since 2008-2015, just because we didn't have a gamma knife in Serbia. Just make sure it's someone and who could have made certain combinations why we didn't take it for ourselves, so we don't have to pay anyone. Over 20 years in a number of health institutions, little or almost nothing has been invested. In addition to adaptation, the government plans to invest in health infrastructure and build new capacities such as "Tirshaw Two", General Hospital in Vranj and Onkologija Two". Construction of the first public bank of stem cells built under the Institute for Mother and Child, Dr Vukan Cupic, enters the final phase and the Serbian government increases the amount of money from year to year, the amount of funds for this purpose. In 45 municipalities of Serbia, we deployed 64 sanitary vehicles supplied by the Ministry of Health. Where that car didn't disappear, and they disappeared because experts said that health homes needed to manage themselves with the support of local self-government. They spent all their money on salaries and then to sue the health care homes and to make up their salaries, they gave up the ambulance and everything we bought for the people's money, and now there's nothing left. That's the case, if I'm not mistaken, so far in six local self-governments. We will continue to promote transparency by publishing the waiting list and waiting time for most critical medical interventions and treatments. Where there are narrow throats, additional funds are significantly reduced waiting lists. Last month, the first patients were given therapy at new linear accelerators in Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, for which we gave 700 million dinars last year. Another minimum of six state-of-the-art accelerators will be obtained by the end of the year, the tender is now planned from the World Bank. Electronic business will be intensively introduced into the health system with the aim of better management of the health care system. We've improved the level of services in maternity homes. Epidural anesthesia is now free, costing mothers between 5,000 and 15,000 dinars earlier. Over the last two years, we've trained 2,650 specialists. We set up a paying and treatment fund abroad. The fund started working in 2015. So far, we've paid for 60 people, mostly for children, which, if you remember, has always been from different sponsorships before. Better management is necessary. Prevention must exist and a new vaccination calendar has entered into force. We're also going to go to breast cancer, we've discovered that over 32.9% of women who belong to a risk category, regularly examined from early detection of this disease, which means that we're going to have to increase it dramatically to protect the health of our women, 470,000 in Serbia have been diagnosed with diabetes and other chronic diseases, such as hypertension and receiving some form of treatment, but if diabetes is not seen at an early stage, the later price of treatment, as you know, is at least three times more expensive, three times more expensive. That's why we're going to have to focus all our energy on better prevention of critical diseases. Now we've got a lot of cute scanners, because what we've discovered before, we're going to save more lives, and to add another argument, less important than this, but it's not irrelevant and it's going to cost the state a lot less. We intend to establish a comprehensive protocol for early detection of diabetes, hypertension, and the functioning of the cervix. This protocol will be tried in 20 selected municipalities to ensure that improved early detection procedures work properly. Human rights, concern about birth, social responsibility, co-operation with civil society, the reforms we have planned are the long-term interest of the entire society, not only of these governments, they concern and touch all segments of society. The economy and the civil sector can not only be observers, but equal partners in the overall reform process from its design to the implementation of the right of a successful partnership begin and develop in a constructive dialogue between the two sides which do not always have to have the same attitudes, but must be prepared to face them in the desire to be born of something useful for society in general. The civil sector in Serbia has so far shown that thanks to its knowledge and experience and ability to touch all the problems of modern society, it has a serious potential to be such a partner to the government and the public sector in the reform process. As for the rights of national minorities, it seems to me that there are many things we have achieved here, but much more is ahead of us and less, I would say, in a regulatory sense, much more in the conduct of the will and of the government of Serbia but also in the province government and the will of local self-government to help members of national minorities in different ways. This primarily refers to the work of the Ministry of Education because we still have members of national minorities who do not have textbooks in their own language and cannot do it again. I am pleased that the Croats have received textbooks in their native language, but we have waited several years for that. No one knows why we've waited so long and no one can understand why we've waited so long. I expect very clear and productive co-operation of national councils with the Ministry of Education, publishers, authors, but also across the academic community, and I especially need to mention Roma and Roma women. We're going to have to work a lot more on their inclusion and be proud of our multiculturalism as the greatest virtue of our society, and it's just looking at the co-existence of different nationalities, and we can never get tired of the commitment we have to guard and develop different cultural identities. As for the relationship between the state and the Church and the religious communities, we have plenty of room for dialogue and co-operation. With all the traditional churches and religious communities, we want to improve dialogue so that the challenges of the 21st century can be met by joint efforts to prevent and overcome. The Serbian government in the Serbian Church and traditional Christian churches and religious communities, in the Jewish community, sees an Islamic community partner in building a modern society with high spiritual and material standards, of course, the Catholic Church, Protestant communities. In accordance with the Constitution, they are inextricably linked to its societies and institutions of life, development and progress. Also, I think it is good to say that the modern Serbian states today would not be without eight centuries of existence in the continuity and joint struggle of the Serbian Church for statehood of Serbia and in this sense thanks to the Serbian Orthodox Church and its role today and its work today. As far as gender equality is concerned, we are not satisfied and are not satisfactory results. Women make up 51.3% of the general population, the goals we want to achieve are at least 40% of women entrepreneurs compared to 30% today, at least 30% of the board of directors and supervisory boards of public enterprises, at least the percentage of women among the appointed and appointed persons in the executive authorities. Only 5% of women are in office of the president of the municipalities, or the mayor today. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: Ministers. Five out of 19, more than before. (Vojislav Šeselj, from town: Five out of 20. The president is the first among the equals. Not enough. Thus, 50-50% of women participate in the management and supervisory bodies for education, science, culture, information and sport, as well as in international bodies. Also evenly allocated time spent on unpaid work by men and women – parenting, economics, ageing. Now women spend 5.08 hours in unpaid jobs, and men spend 2.58 and 40% less, respectively. We'll work hard on it, and hopefully the results will get better. As for the position of the LGBT population in co-operation with civil society associations, ten days of seminars on police behaviour towards LGBT were held. The police administrations of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac have appointed liaison officers with the LGBT population. Communication and co-operation with this population and civil society organisations that oversee protection and the exercise of the rights of persons of different sexual orientation have been improved, and I hope that we all contribute to this by our own attitude not to make a big political issue, but also that this is one of the human rights that belongs to each individual, each man and our job is to respect it. So far, we've managed to get our hands on all the migrant flows under control and for the sake of time, the right to tell you, I'm going to use it to talk about it a little bit more. Also, I want to say about social protection and very important results in that area that we have managed significantly to fight the gray economy, that we have also managed to charge 14.8 billion dinars more than planned and therefore the PIO has withdrawn less funding based on the grant of 9.8 billion dinars. Payments to beneficiaries from the ministry's jurisdiction are not one day late and no payment for children, fighters, people with disabilities and other social protection is reduced for about three million and 300,000 citizens. So far, in the fight against abuse of disability pensions, we have reviewed more than 51 thousand pensions. Pensions have been suspended for 305 users and savings from 88 million dinars have been achieved. For 11 years, the existence of inspections has been issued a total of 74 banned homes for older people, and during the second half of 2014 and 2015 it is prohibited to work for 37 homes for older people. In 2015, control was carried out in the field of combat disability protection for persons with military disability and family disability users per fallen fighter. This prevents about 700 million dinar abuse. Debts have been settled to the PIO Fund and the National Employment Service. Resolved debt to military pensioners for a period for which we have, as you know, neither been guilty nor in debt since 2008. We had to find a lot of money for that. In January 2016, a difference was paid based on the extraordinary coordination of pensions for 29,338 military pensioners, totalling 5,57 billion dinars. The Serbian and PIO government's decision corrected the injustice against agricultural pensioners. The difference in funeral expenses for some 66,000 deceased pensioners has been paid. 1,750 million dinars were allocated by decision. The court proceedings were avoided, saving about two billion dinars. The NSZ paid off its debt in 2003. For some 15,600 unemployed, we paid 1,725,107,000 dinars. We have a significant adoption increase of almost 31%, which is very positive. It has been established in the last two years of 347 adoptions, where the Ministry of Labour and the future will have an obligation to encourage it and to see what it is that it can do and do. As far as the Social Protection Act is concerned, some ambiguities have been found. Our goal in 2020 is to make the share of the net income of users of financial social assistance in the line of risk of poverty for single-member households and for households with two adults and two children 80%, as well as the resulting increase in the risk of poverty by 30%. Plans for the promotion, inclusion of employees of social assistance in the process of work through work activation. You can't take welfare without cleaning up the street. So you have something to do, you don't want to do. Now, if the state gives you money, you can come out and help us clean the leaves. There's no big philosophy here. You may not love me as much as you want, but he loves to be respected, not reluctant. Because the easiest thing to do is not all work and ask the state for welfare. Improving the work of the central register of compulsory social security, improving the data exchange system of mandatory social security institutions with other state authorities. Of course, the fight against abuse, further reform of the pension system in order to be financially sustainable and stable and for future generations of pensioners, to create a social map, to strengthen users to get out of the social protection system, to build, to rebuild, to adapt and equip all institutions of social protection, to improve and to protect the investment of community support services, to transform the networks of institutions, for the first time to introduce social health services that involve the joint growth of health and social workers in order to improve the efficiency and humane treatment of persons with health and development problems from the social protection system, to continue the fight against domestic violence and exploitation of children, to open the first safe house for victims of human trafficking, to build an adequate asylum system and to manage migrant crises. It is about making important laws that contribute to higher employment, reducing work on black, improving social dialogue and harmonising rules with EU legal assets. This is from the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes until the Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Law on PIO and the strategy for improving the situation of persons with disabilities for the period until 2020. A large number of people with disabilities belong to the category of persons below the poverty line, about 60%. It is a very unfavourable and educational structure, more unfavourable than in the general population. So 53.3% of these people have completed primary education or incomplete primary school, while only 6.6% have higher or higher education. It is very important to us, precisely because of this unfavourable educational structure, as well as lack of work experience, the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. We also adopted the Law on Sign Language, and the Law was adopted with the help of the guide dog. Priorities are: employment, creation of new training programmes for people with disabilities, education, introduction of specific support programmes for preschool and school institutions, access to services, social protection, deinstitutionalisation, that is, improving the development of family accommodation, related foster care and foster care for children with disabilities, health care. She cares about birthrights. Demographic statistics worry us very much. The natural movement of the population has been constantly getting worse since 2002. In the period from 2005 to 2015, we lost 383,000 inhabitants only through natural growth. So we've lost the size of the New Now. It's only because of the natural birth of the lower. In just 10 years, we lost an entire New Now. On an annual level the size of the town of Prepolje or Negotina. It runs from -1.7 promo in the Belgrade region to 8.3 promo in the region of southern and eastern Serbia. Only seven municipalities record positive rates of natural growth, which are Tutin - 7.8, Novi Pazar - 6.4, Presevo - 3, Sjenica - 2.6, Novi Sad mainly due to refugee population - 0.9, Petrovadine - 0.4 and Surcin - 0.3 promila. We have to do something about it. It's not a question of giving money to a third-born and fourth-born child, because that's not what we get, on the contrary, we lose money. What we get is if we encourage mothers and parents to have their first child. To have the first and second children, we have the most problems with that. Those who have a second child decide more often on a third child than anyone decides to have a first child. That is why Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, too, will have, I think, special powers to order measures and a special budget to set aside to improve those measures. Because the fact that we're going to fix Serbia's economy, that we're going to run a good policy, what's worth to us if we die out as a nation. As for the prevention of domestic violence, the number of reported cases has increased by 32.4% in the past, which does not mean that there are more. On the contrary, we would say that there are fewer of them. But that means that people, especially women, have encouraged themselves to come before the competent state authorities and talk about their problems. That, of course, doesn't mean we solved the problems. On the contrary, we have many. That is why a new law will be passed in September, a law on the repression of domestic violence. He envisions specialised police and prosecutors to fight this phenomenon, as we have already said and announced, a strong centre for social work and a special co-ordination of state authorities and institutions. Especially significant activities in the field of child protection. Since the "No Drugs in Schools", "Click Safe", "Secure Internet in Serbia", "Net Patrol", "Unicef Program", Project "Safe childhood", the development of a security culture among young people, it is our job to reform society and economy with one goal – to leave children a brighter future, a regulated country in which they can work and be decent to live. Organizations dealing with children's rights have made proposals to the Serbian government on how to improve the situation and they are precisely composed of what I said. And the organisation of the month of the fight against trafficking in human beings, drugs, campaigns, schools and all affirmative measures for sensitive groups of students were introduced through the so-called so-called. Sublegal act. A rule on the recognition of discrimination has been adopted. Units dealing with the prevention of discrimination and violence, the protection of human and minority rights in education have been introduced. We're going to have to invest more in prevention. Every penny in prevention is equal to seven dinars that are spent later on restoration. We have, unfortunately, a lot of hard experiences, mostly with lush waters. A total of 19 floodwater dams have been built in Serbia for the past 20 years, between 1995 and 2015, and in 2015 alone, we built 29 dams for lush water. We will have to step it up and use the Public Investment Office as well and, if there is any extra money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, to do so. As for environmental protection, we face great challenges. Our enterprises in restructuring and bankruptcy are otherwise covered by waste that has been deposited on warehouses for the past 20 years, without knowledge, money and help. Tykun firms whose owners bought fairies and yachts, instead of investing in new technologies, went into bankruptcy and left behind dumps full of dangerous waste and heavy metals that come into the land, water, air and poisoning our children. So don't ask me how much money we spent in western Serbia to give people the chance to have healthy water and to live where they lived decades before. We didn't or at least did it in this area during the period of the previous government. Not because the minister is guilty, but because we've given the least of our money the least of our attention, and that's what I'm the most responsible and responsible for. In the next period, I believe that, and we will also see about the Law on Government and Ministry, how we will stand there, but we will also have to work to develop improvements in the waste management system, improvements in water management, water supply and waste water management, improving air quality through reducing harmful emissions. All these programmes are to be implemented, as the EU expects us to, but we are primarily expected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We talked about energy well through both EPS and through "Srbigas". We today have a convincingly low electricity price in Europe, so 30% of us are cheaper than the first country to us and we will have to look for ways to reduce heating bills and improve energy efficiency, thus also strengthening our construction industry in the coming period and optimization in many municipalities. We will have to finance energy efficiency projects throughout Serbia. So far, 11 projects have been funded, with their local self-government achieving an annual savings of nearly two million kilowatt hours or about 40%. As you know, we're doing Bones 2 and that Kostolac power plant is otherwise worth 108.7 billion dinars and one billion dollars will certainly attract new industries. We have a large number of projects that we are building parallelly, therefore, from the construction of the Niš-Dimitrovgrad master gas pipeline, the trans-Balkan corridor that restores the network of electricity transmission in western Serbia, the 400 kilovolt power line between Pančev and Spasca, the 400 kilovolts of Kragujevac-Kraljevo, the rise of the voltage level of the transmission system in western Serbia between Obrenovac and Bajina Basta, the interconnection between Serbia, Bosnia and Montenegro, the 400 kilowatts of Bajina Basta-Kraljevo. We have also installed an additional 53.84 megawatts of renewable energy sources in a wide range of renewable sources. The fight against crime and corruption, as a special part, was taken from what we talked about all the measures in the judiciary, on purpose and especially because of the role of different authorities in this struggle from the Ministry of the Interior, an independent prosecutor's office to an independent judiciary. I'd like to introduce you to some information. We've reduced the overall crime rate by about 8.6%, which means 16,700 less crime, 23.5% less murder. I'm saying this because of people who, in an unserious and irresponsible way, every day say that I don't know what's unusually happening and that it's much worse than it used to be because it's their only political opportunity to say that something reminds me of the '90s. It's their only mantra, they don't know anything else in life. Then when you compare the data not from 1990 but from 2011 and 2010, you see that we have a quarter less murders than we had. Why does it seem today, and why does it look like, besides that political mantra, because the others don't, they can't say what they can do and what they can do in the state? Another important thing that we're talking about here today is that today we're all talking about taking care of every murder, today we're taking care of every crime, that today we're looking for responsibility and the Home Office. Three months, they'll blow my head off for three barracks. They killed the whole country for three barracks. We had 13 murders a day with phantoms on our heads, no one ever asked them, and today three barracks killed us alive. Are you nervous or what? I stand five and a half hours, don't worry. I'll hold out as long as it takes. My voice's a little weak, but don't worry. Don't worry. We made progress in the fight against drug dealers. Over the past two years, we have seized 4.9 tons of intoxicating drugs, arrested 215 members of 30 different criminal groups belonging to organised crime, involved in smuggling, counterfeiting, corruption and numerous other criminal activities. We have opened nine new police stations, a facility in Belgrade, Surcin, Batajnica, Resnik, Block 45, Novi Sad, Nis, Ub, Priboj, Presevo, which is why we can protect more citizens and more territory today. We have, of course, focused on improving police responsibility over the past two years. The number of crimes committed by police officers has been reduced by 9.4%. To make our schools safer, we increased the number of patrols and strengthened school security by deploying 372 police officers to 689 schools. We doubled the number of representatives in primary schools, leading to a reduction in the number of crimes and violations recorded in schools. The number of crimes was reduced from 1.667 to 1.524 and the number of violations from 727 to 634. We have significantly reduced juvenile crime by 23.7% over the past two years. Our paths are somewhat safer, although we are still alone saying that the paths of death are also due to our carelessness and our irresponsibility, speeding, drunk driving, and that the interior ministry will have an additional task to take rigorous measures in the coming period to protect the citizens of Serbia. It's obvious that rational measures don't help, that they're going to have to be much sharper, more repressive measures, so people understand what we really want. Fighting corruption. Fair society rests on one key principle – they are all equal before the law, they all follow the same rules. Serbia was in situations where there were too long two groups -- the first group that were ordinary and honest citizens, fighters who did the right thing, and the other group did those who did not follow the rules and who abused state funds and functions. Our message to citizens is clear – breaking the law is not worth it, proper and responsible behavior is the only way to improve individuals and communities. Today we promise, as I promised in 2014, that we will put the fight against corruption at the top of the agenda, that we will break this vicious circle in which some people do not play by the rules, but instead take money that does not belong to them, which would otherwise be invested in opening jobs, education, social protection. Over the past two years, we have initiated criminal proceedings against seven former ministers and ministerial assistants, three current directors of public enterprises, 11 former directors of public enterprises and even judges. Fighting corruption to create an even arena for all citizens is just the beginning, and I'm the first one to tell you that we have a long way ahead of us. That is the road we begin by clearing up the very top of this evil. Achieving a fair society through a reduction in corruption is a path of several steps. The first step is to obtain credible knowledge of illegal works. The second step is to make sure that the perpetrators of these acts are brought to justice and that they are timely in the process. The third and perhaps most important step in eliminating corruption is to prepare evidence enough to make it clear to the court the act of corruption. Serbia successfully implements its 2013 anti-corruption strategy, and in the meantime, the government adopted an Action Plan for Chapter 23, part of which provides for measures to combat corruption. These two plans are in a comprehensive way regulating a plan to fight corruption for the current and future periods. At the beginning of the term of office of the previous government, a Code on the Protection of Alarmers was adopted, an act effectively protecting citizens who are ready to report corruption, has been applied for a year. Many suspected it would work, and the results were opposite. So far, the court decisions have protected 35 alerts. The quality of the law indicates that the European Commission has adopted more than 90% of the laws on the new EU alert directive. We also through a strategy to investigate financial crime, which is the first comprehensive document envisioning police reform, prosecutors and courts with the aim of full system arrangements and repressive state authorities capable of combating organised crime and corruption at the highest level, the idea of the strategy is not only the activity of those repressive bodies, but the active involvement and association of a wide range of state authorities that co-operate and exchange information to condemning convictions for those criminals who have robbed the budgets of the Republic, autonomous provinces and local self-government. The implementation of this strategy has begun, drafts of amendments and additions to the Criminal Code have been made, a new Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, corruption and terrorism, amendments and additions to the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts. These regulations will be adopted at the first congregation meetings. In the coming months, according to adopted laws, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime will continue its work in enhanced capacity and with extended jurisdiction. Four special departments of the Prosecutor's Office will be formed in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis and Novi Sad. Each of them will deal with corruption from the territory of its entire appeal area. By the end of the year, this is one of the things, rare things that we haven't fulfilled even though I didn't say in the exposé, but another time, we're finally going to pass a law on the origin of the property. In the context of the tax administration, we will form a special unit that will deal with determining the origin of the property. You can't report to the government that you have 30 thousand dinars in the company of your father, anyone else, and that you're going on a raft in Porsche, Ferrari, or I don't know what, because for 30,000 dinars and 300 thousand years, you can't buy neither Porsche nor Ferrari. We don't mind driving both of those cars, but give the state to Serbia, give it a tax, give it what it belongs to. The work of this tax unit will be in line with the work of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and mention the future and special departments of senior public prosecutors. The new Anti-Corruption Agency Act is ending and we need to sit down with the people of the Anti-Corruption Agency, see if we can reach some compromises. Where there is disagreement and to come before the National Assembly because it would fully institutionalise the fight against corruption and I mean the whole system, all the bodies and organizations of the institution necessary for that. As for the execution of criminal sanctions, the minister adopted sublegal acts that are closer to regulating the situation of treatment against persons deprived of freedom in accordance with international standards. I think we have established sustainable systems for informing persons deprived of freedoms in achieving and protecting their rights in institutions. I think we've done a lot for them, not just something that contributes to the resociation of theirs, but that they can feel much better, than we felt before in our institutions and I believe, and when you analyze the situation in the institutions between 2010 and 2015, today the situation is a little bit better, because we have had huge investment in housing capacities in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions during 2013, 2014 and 2015. Two blocs to house the person of freedom in Belgrade's District Prison, the reconstruction of a block for the treatment of somatic patients at a special prison hospital in Belgrade, reconstruction of the reinforced surveillance department in KPZ Nis, the reconstruction of the bathroom in the Belgrade County Prison, Novi Sad and Uzic, as well as the KPZ in Sapac. The restaurant, dining rooms and condemnation rooms were renovated in Čačka County Prison, the district prison in Leskovac was renovated, the rehabilitation of the sanitary network was completed, in the County Prison in Subotica, as well as the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors. In 2014, reconstructions of two blocs for the housing of persons deprived of liberty and laundry at the Special Prison Hospital in Belgrade were completed, a reconstruction of a detention block in the OCZ Belgrade, made in Nis Cultural Hall of Convictions. A new facility in Subotica has been completed for 50 people. In 2015, a number of more of these results and I think that what is very important, we have several other objects for which we have not provided for Zabela, the District Prison in Leskovac and now that money, now we provide these financial resources as well as a new pavilion for the accommodation of 240 persons deprived of liberty in KPZ Sremska Mitrovica, a surface of 2400 square meters. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic goal and task of all the reforms we are carrying out is to create a society that believes in itself and its opportunities. For such a society, we need an individual who believes in himself, who can, and can, and will. To get that, we have to get back to the basics, the one... Just a few more minutes, don't worry. What Jean Jacques Russo wrote about in his perhaps most important part of "Emily" or "Requestion". He said - a man must teach his child to maintain himself when he becomes a man, to endure the blows of fate, not to fear abundance and poverty, to live if necessary in the icy fields of Iceland, or on the hot hills of Malta and more than that. He must teach him to live, not to breathe, but to work, to use his organs, his senses, his abilities. In short, all the parts of us who give us the feelings of our existence. That's the essence of what we need to do and go through reforms. To create generations that won't run away, that won't obey who will be able to answer each of the questions that the future brings. Generations that will replace the problem so popularly in the Serbian language with a word challenge and that will know that for every challenge there is a solution and a skill to apply it. That's how this country changes and I believe in that change. Because long ago in Serbia we don't have any real political, better said ideological problem to use that word. We have a social problem, the inability to change and thus change our country. We also have a problem of unpreparedness to move to work more, to want to perfect ourselves, to advance, to conquer new areas of knowledge, to advance our own opportunities. To say that once again, to move our borders and our society and nothing to do with politics or ideological differences does not mean whether or not we build roads, bring investors, increase the number of employees, fix toilets in schools and hospitals. Or if it has to do with politics, then it's just that relationship that moves that policy out of the field of ideology and moves it to a folder called life. And who today in Serbia hasn't learned that life is more important than empty, fake, pointless politics, I think that in politics, the real truth has nothing to ask because there's simply nothing to offer. The story of the East and the West, dictatorships and censorships, autocracy, military and political alliances, nations, religions, partisans and Chetniks, capitalism and socialism, globalisation and post-capitalism are mostly fossils and dizziness ahead of what is called life. And for one very simple reason, they don't offer solutions to this ordinary life, for the life of every citizen of this country that lasts today and here and who we have to fix, not by talking, not by big thoughts, but by a series of practical solutions. In most cases, they come down to words, words that I so often use, and which are different ideologists and various politicians most ridiculed, work, work and even more work. Knowing what this work is done and the effort that we put into knowledge and work and the belief that this is the only way we can get to a solution. It's the first lesson we all have to learn and the basic lesson we have to give to future generations. All the rest, all the myths, all the divisions, the differences and fairy tales they make don't lead this country into any future. On the contrary, they return her back to the past in mythomania and megalomania, constantly seeking the culprit in someone else, and in something else and further stoned and such a stoned division in which she is again so dear to us – it's not my fault, it's him. In order for it to stop, and it has to stop, it takes a lot to find that common denominator of the survival of every society's development and progress. What is the need and desire of each of us, more importantly, is what will be the basic model in the behavior of those after us. In the end, by one belief, each goal is nothing but a dream with a clear deadline. If that deadline were to be respected and that dream would not only become a goal but also be achieved, it would take a few important things, and today in the end I want to talk about them. It's terribly important that we know what we want, that we dream of what purpose we want to achieve, and as far as I'm concerned, I have no doubt about it. Everything I've told you, every point and every part of this plan and programme, fundamental, serious and responsible and many things you haven't heard, which I've had to skip, and what you'll be able to read, serves only one goal, a modern, economically strong, European, respected, righteous, democratic Serbia. The servant gives her a start, to develop her and to train her and strengthen her, to teach her work and learning, to help her, and to allow me to paraphrasise Delano Roosevelt not only to build a future for young people but also to build young people for that future. To build a foundation for generations to come and these generations to be able to build upon. All together, the goal must be to achieve a dream exactly in such a Serbia. And in the next four years it must be achieved. I call upon you to join me in this belief, to believe in yourself, in all the people of this country's ability to make their dream come true. To make sure we can make an even better, nicer, healthier, fairer, richer, happier country. To believe and to swear on that country, our Serbia. To invest every second, a minute and an hour on the achievement of that dream. Don't let anything be difficult for you, so you don't know about excuses. Don't ever think that you're more important than that dream and that country, because what it's going to be tomorrow is going to depend on just that willingness, that you're going to work, that you're going to put all the effort, all the knowledge and all the time in Serbia. There is no task in choosing who we choose, no dream that can dream of someone else and has no faith to the one we decide for ourselves, it depends on stability and peace and further development. And all that we need to achieve, achieve, and even in accession negotiations with Europe also depends on it, and Serbia depends on it, on our work, on our faith, on your faith. I call upon you together to raise the scale and our expectations and our accomplishments and our faith. If we do that, Serbia will be a good country, for that ordinary life, for that common man. That life that exists based on its work and which is united gives great results and great pride, and nothing less than that with this plan, which I have presented to you, and I don't want to achieve. Only pride on and for your own country. Dear People's MPs, I know that as the government does, a good part of you won't be satisfied, neither will I, but perhaps most importantly, what you and I need to understand and accept, you and I are not the most important, much less me and our pleasure. They must be satisfied with the citizens of Serbia, who, thanks to whom we are here and because of which it has been possible for the past two years to start long-term delayed, difficult and necessary reforms whose first results are being seen, which are why Serbia is no longer at the bottom of each scale, but is starting slowly, but surely with them to climb up and stop looking at the back of certain countries, whose back we should never have looked at, but we were brought into such a situation. In front of these people sitting in front of you, but in front of the citizens of Serbia, it is above all a struggle, they have not agreed to stay, and some to deal for the first time with problems in the new government of Serbia, which are in front of all of us because of the privileges that once took place, because they know they will not be. They are fully aware that they are and that all of us are waiting to fight, fight and fight. I want to thank all the people in the previous government, who have worked hard, hard, and who have shown that they deserve this place. I will go into history because we have been able to reverse Serbia's course of reverse, and we have come today to live in a country with clear prosperity and progress. Nothing in the next four years will be easy. Nothing will be understood. We know there'll be little to go through without resistance. Unfortunately, most often unwarranted, motivated by one of the primary human needs not to wave, to remain tucked in in their own little peace in which we will never be the target of anyone. Maybe that's why the fight ahead won't be easy or short. Besides, we never made that promise. It will be a fight for a better, safer, more decent, more beautiful Serbia. It will be a struggle for all of us to endure in this struggle regardless of the obstacles we will surely face. There's no victory without community and team. I believe the team I've chosen is ready for the goals and wins we've drawn. I'm ready to change anyone who stops on that road and doesn't meet their expectations starts with me. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I present to you candidates for members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ivica Dacic – for the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister. Nebojsa Stefanovic – for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović – for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. Rasim Ljajic – for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Dusan Vujović – for Minister of Finance. Goran Knezevic – Minister of Industry. Branislav Nedimovic – for the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. Aleksandar Antić – Minister of Mining and Energy. Nela Kuburović – for the minister of justice. Ana Brnabic – for the minister of state administration and local self-government. Zoran Djordjevic – for the defence minister. Vladan Sarčević – Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. Zlatibor Lončar – for Minister of Health. Alexander Vulin – for Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. Vanja Udovici – for Minister of Youth and Sports. Vladan Vukosavljevic – for the Minister of Culture and Information. Jadranka Joksimovic -- for the minister without portfolio, will naturally be in charge of European integration. Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic – for the minister without portfolios, and we said today in one area for which she will be in charge. Milan Krkobic – for the minister without portfolio, will also deal with regional development and coordination of the work of individual our and public enterprises and state institutions. For the Prime Minister – Aleksandar Vukic. Serbian citizens have shown in the elections that they believe in a policy of seriousness, believe in a policy of responsibility, believe in a policy of self-burning, industriousness, denial, dedicated work. I believe in these people. I believe in better, I believe in more decent Serbia. I want to thank everyone who isn't a part of the majority, who could sit for almost six hours today and hear this shortened exposé, because that's what he's saying and that we can respect each other, that we can not only hear each other but also hear each other. We will also be able to respond to all those who have shown such attention and respect. It is our job to respect differences, to respect different opinions, but we will not deviate from our goals, from our views that we are sure that Serbia and its citizens lead to a better future. Long live a better and more decent Serbia! Long live our only Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-09-0.u930	Dear MPs, we have heard the programme and the proposal of the government's composition, which has been presented by the government's candidate, Aleksandar Vukic, and we thank him once again. Just one more minute of procedure, I must put to the vote a proposal from the parliamentary group, that is, MP Milan Lapčević, to propose a long debate for the parliamentary groups, that it be 10 hours. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Don't yell. This proposal is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -28, v - five, abstention - one, did not vote 156 of the total presence of 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly... (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Don't yell, please let me finish the procedure. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Please, MPs, listen to me carefully, some MPs obviously do not know the Rules of Procedure, that unless they have done so immediately, they have submitted applications for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Only one parliamentary group has not done so and will not be able to discuss the mandate proposal unless it does so immediately. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. No more Rules of Procedure, we had... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How is there no?) It's not the end of the session. I'll finish now, not before me. I thank you, now everyone has given up and since we've worked a long time today, that is, the mandater really had a exhausted and substantial exposé, I'm fixing a break and we're going to continue to work tomorrow, when I'm going to open the debate at 10.00 hours. Thank you. You'll have a list of speakers in the open parliament in the morning. At 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 167 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for continuing work. You have received resignations from the MPs: Aleksandra Vukic, Rasim Ljajic, Ljiljana Đurović, Svetlana Kozic, Biljana Rubaković and Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, acting as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly regarding the examination of these resignations, which has determined that the case under Article 88(2) has taken place. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88, 88, 3 and 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliament. In accordance with Article 88(2), paragraph 2 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time on which the MPs were elected: Aleksandra Vukic, Rasim Ljajic, Ljiljana Đurović, Svetlana Kozic, Biljana Rubaković and Dr Sulejman Ugljanin were elected on the day of their resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, the discharges of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a candidate programme for Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government. I ask the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, to come forward. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
