ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52386	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first special session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 125 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 165 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended today by MPs Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Jasmina Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure for the need for the National Assembly to complete the debate as soon as possible and elect a defence minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see for the First Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, I found the following Dn e n e d: 1. The election and taking an oath from a member of the government. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, all members of the government, as well as a candidate for a member of the government, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic. You have received a proposal from a candidate for a member of the Government who is in agreement with Article 133 paragraph 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 25(2). The government law, submitted by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who proposed to me as defence minister Zoran Djordjevic. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, conditions have been obtained for me to open a search for a candidate for a member of the Government, to elect a member of the Government and to take an oath before the National Assembly. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52387	President-in-Office, Prime Minister, MPs, I'm advocating a 27-member violation in connection with article 119 of several other members involved in government control, but this is enough to begin with. So today you've opened a session to elect a member of the government. In case a member of the government is elected today, his election will be announced in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and after that, the government will likely be disbanded on the same day. So, he even if Sevin Bolt couldn't get to the place he was supposed to sit, so he can't sit in his seat. President, you have violated Article 27 and 119 because we choose a member of the Government who cannot sit in office and this is a simple farce of the President, the Government. As a result, within the deadline provided for by law, the Prime Minister did not come before the Assembly and propose to elect a member of the government, but waited for the last day of the National Assembly meeting, he now smiled favorably on the whole people's faces. The whole people's face is laughing now. Why didn't he propose to elect a member of the government within the legal time limit? You violated the Rules of Procedure by those members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52388	Dear Messenger, you've been killed by too much of a word. So, you called for article 27, which refers to the working bodies of the National Assembly, and about article 119, which refers to this special session, but well, I actually understood the essence of what you wanted to say, not that the injured Rules of Procedure, but something else. The prime minister proposed within the legal deadline of the candidates, and this was opened yesterday's first regular session and the possibility of today being on the agenda, and believe me, the citizens of Serbia, indeed no one has rebelled because we are going to choose the defence minister today, we give our opinion on this candidate. If you think I've broken the entire Rules of Procedure... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. )......................................................................................................... I agree with you, we'll see at the vote how the MPs vote. Thank you. Is anyone else interested in something like this? (No) I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 269. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a search on the motion for a candidate for a member of this government. Does the motionary, Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, want a word to explain his proposal? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52389	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the people, of course we have done everything that we have done within the legal period and everything in accordance with regulations that I could say about when and how they have been changed and what practical situations have been adapted in the previous period, because what is not always quite and completely meaningful has come from an earlier period because it was such a political account with Dinkic, while he was a member of the government and then these regulations remain and we always respect them under the old golden rule of dura lex sed lex, whatever they think of certain norms and provisions, our duty, our obligation, the obligation of the Serbian Government, the obligation of the National Assembly of Serbia is to respect the law. In accordance with the legal standards, which is clear to you, in accordance with the legal deadlines, we submitted this proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia after an unusual, unusual and slightly strange situation. For the first time in our, certainly, modern political history, as far as I know, it has not happened before, because of a severe verbal fall of the defence minister, there has been a decision by the Serbian government, then what is more important to the representative of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to deny the confidence of the defence minister and, however painful or politically, not easy for some of us, I think it was an important thing for Serbia, that it was an important thing and a milestone for behaviour, especially those who would represent the government, since we saw that some in the National Assembly, but also outside the National Assembly, did not learn anything from that. On the contrary, they continued to be very proud of the ladies, but also of certain professions and people who do not politically share their beliefs, but of what we are different and what we must insist on as a standard in established, for many years, it is to show that we have changed, to show that we understand life differently around ourselves, that we respect women more, that we respect our public and that we have to act more responsibly and more seriously. Time has passed, and I hope there will be no time when we will ever have to explain tear gas or bottles or I don't know what in the Serbian Parliament, the Serbian government or anywhere else. It's simple, and what we did was no concession from the public, it was our desire to change ourselves, because we were always able to answer—and look what the other one did, look what the third one did. Look at them from all political sides, they shared and made insults much more difficult at the expense of the ladies than Bratislav Gasic did. It's just that such disgusting remarks and insults have suggested to women that it's a shame to say such things here in the National Assembly. But it was our duty to act. We have reacted and shown, I think, that kind of responsibility and seriousness that is necessary for modern Serbia. Accordingly, in accordance with the constitutional obligation of Article 133, Article 8 provides that the Prime Minister is required to initiate a procedure for selecting a new member of the Government and in accordance with Article 25(2), following the termination of the term of office of a member of the Government, in accordance with the law. The government law is scheduled for a 15-day deadline to propose to the National Assembly of the new minister, I have just made a proposal for you to choose Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister. It has its own not only formal and legal reasons. The technical government, which I don't know how the esteemed gentleman who spoke earlier concluded that it would last until today or tonight, seems to be giving himself the right to represent the President of the Republic, but as he represented him for those few seconds, he left the O.R. faster and better. Since there are some people in this room who don't have an audienceal therapist rule, let me hear the other side, but I just hear myself and then I run out, I guess I have a lot more pressing and smarter work to do than hear my colleagues and representatives of the government. What to do is, I guess, something that's common and something we face all the time. So there are a few important things, not just those that we talked about, which are always in the first place, which are laws and legality. So, the government is running errands, but it can also lay down regulations if they say so, if that's what the defence interests require. You know that we are in an uneasy, not easy situation and because of the migrant crisis. I'm not saying we're going to need anything, but you never know if there's any need to involve the Serbian Army in any way, and I would say, any effects of the Ministry of Defence in this difficult and responsible job. The legislator, therefore, has put an emphasis on the exemption from the ban on the adoption of regulations if it imposes the needs of defence. The defence minister also has a specific position compared to all other ministers. She looks after not only the ministry as a state administration body, but also the Serbian Army. His responsibility lies not only with the Assembly, according to the Prime Minister, but also with the President of the Republic. This place is thus more complex than some other duties. Such a complex system and organization is never good to be without a manager. I know, of course, that someone wouldn't tell me, that we don't know what it's going to be or what the election results are going to be. Of course we don't know, and of course these election results are uncertain, and that's why whoever gets the people's trust will be able to suggest anyone else or perhaps Mr. Djordjevic, or perhaps propose someone from a previous period or someone who has never been a minister. So it's important to us how it works by May, when someone decides and defines how and how the entire defence system should function. Zoran Djordjevic was elected because he was elected. It's our suggestion. It is you who will decide whether to be elected because it is a valuable, hardworking, dedicated man, a man who, I would say, is well and teamly doing his job, part of the Ministry of Defense system. He is a master of economic science in the area of international banking and finance. He is a member of the Mensa Association of Serbia. He speaks English and Russian. He finished what we are particularly proud of that we belonged to the defense system, completed the National Defence School of the High Security and Defence Studies. I think he has good relations with everyone in the Serbian Army, that he understands the needs, especially budgeting, the income and expenditure side of the defence ministry. He knows exactly what his obligations are. I don't think anyone's ever had any or any significant objections to his work before or from the system itself. I think it's important that without any turbulence, one not easy goes by, I don't want to say harder words, a period for us, especially since we still don't know what will be the result of the March 7th meeting at the EU Summit on the migrant crisis. This is expected as some kind of their eighth session and final decision on which way they will go to solve the problem of the migrant crisis. We hereby establish or guarantee the full survival of a stable, good system, a system in which, of course, there are always many difficulties, but I would say much less problems, a system in which everyone behaves responsibly, seriously, and a system in which everyone understands well what the state of Serbia is and what its basic needs are. So I would ask you to support our proposal, and we are prepared, of course, to listen and hear all your suggestions, all your ideas, all your suggestions, all your criticisms. I would also ask you to understand that somewhere since 12:45, the Serbian government will represent Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. I'll be back in the O.R. later. I want to show, as always, full respect for this high house, for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and for all the MPs. Once again, thank you very much. I want this opportunity to thank all the MPs for everything we've done in the previous period. This was one decent, good assembly of parliament, in which we have brought many laws, important and good, one of those I am very proud and one that has caused, I would say, the greatest attention or the most resistance in the public, which is the Labour Act, because it has established new foundations, a new system and a new chance for Serbia's recovery. I want to thank all of you, honourable MPs, who have supported the Serbian government and who have been against it, because we have both received support from each other, which is what you have learned and have worked hard to apply in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52390	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52391	Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr. Djordjevic, the SVM parliamentary group will vote in favour of the election of Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll do it for two reasons. The first reason is the protection of institutions. We believe that the defence minister can not only, but must be elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Prime Minister, according to the Constitution, the Law on Government and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, was obliged to propose a candidate, which he did, and the National Assembly cannot, but must elect a defence minister, regardless of what is likely to be disbanded in a few days. So that's the first reason. There's another reason he's connected to the partnership. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians is part of the ruling majority and has tried to be a partner in the realisation of the government's bid for the past two years, to be part of Serbia's aspirations as a normal and decent state, as the prime minister has repeatedly said, but it was our electoral slogan in 2012 and therefore we agree with these efforts to make a contribution. This government of the Republic of Serbia has taken very important steps in the past two years, not only for the Hungarian National Community, but also for those citizens of Serbia who live together with us and who have the same goals as we do. I just want to remind this esteemed home that this meeting of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, namely this Government of the Republic of Serbia, has eliminated from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia the principle of collective guilt after nearly seven decades, that important steps have been made towards so-called. The historic reconciliation between the Serbian and Hungarian people, that concrete measures were adopted in the interest of proper or proportionate indifference of members of national minorities in the public administration, in general, that very important infrastructure projects were launched. I also think about projects related to railways, Budapest-Belgrade or Belgrade-Budapest, Subotica-Segedin-Baja. I'm thinking about refinanceing the construction of the so-called so-called construction. Ipsylon arms on Corridor 10 next to Subotica, to refinance the construction of the National Theatre in Subotica. These are just some examples that show that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken major steps towards the realization of our common aspirations, and therefore we can, based on these concrete results, be satisfied and hope that we will be able to continue working on these and similar tasks after the next elections. It has already been said that the defence minister, unlike some other members of the government, and in the government's technical mandate, has the opportunity to lay down regulations if the reasons for the defence of the Republic of Serbia so require. In addition, we must say, if there is a choice, and there will be, you Mr. Djordjevic will remain in this position for at least four months. So it's not about days, it's not about weeks. It's at least four months. The important thing is that you, Mr. Djordjevic, are from the defense system, that you were Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defense. I'm sure you won't need time to spy, get to know the job, but from tomorrow you'll be able to carry out those tasks and responsibilities that the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia has. Besides, we can't talk about the defense system, even if it was a personal matter, like in this case, without mentioning the migrant crisis. The Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians was the first party, if I may say so, which here at the National Assembly in July last year spoke of the dangers of the migrant crisis and the first place in the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be citizens of the Republic of Serbia, their security, their security, the security of their property. When I talked about it last summer, I didn't formulate a single sentence that was directed against anyone. I said solidarity to help anyone on our territory, but first it should be a protection of the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're glad to see similar sentences spoken over the past few months. In this context, the National Security Council's decision of 25 February should be mentioned as regards the fact that the President of the Republic has given the defence minister permission to place Serbia's Army on full alert in case of need. I hope so, and we all hope that there will be no need for the Army to take any step towards the migrant crisis. We hope that the police professionally performing their tasks will be enough to ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of this migrant crisis or the new migration of the people, are safe, that they feel safe. We feel this decision or view this decision as one preventive decision. It would certainly be good if the National Assembly had no obligation, but only the possibility of selecting a new defence minister, and then we would advocate having a defence minister in full capacity and therefore support this step to elect a minister and, specifically, Zoran Djordjevic, as former secretary of state at the Ministry of Defence, chooses for this post. Once again, the SVM parliamentary group will vote for Zoran Djordjevic's election as defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, one sentence. Maybe it's not a topic, maybe because of this sentence I won't get a round of applause from a part of the hall, which I might get, but since it's a defense system, as Kato was saying, ceterum censeo, that I use some Latin words, as did the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. So, the SVM continues to advocate the Euro-Atlantic integration of our country and we continue to believe that it is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and we hope that the time will come when this option, this possibility, not because of sympathy or antipathy, will come seriously, but only because of the state interests of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52392	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52393	Dear National Assembly Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the government, SPOP MPs support Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's proposal and will vote for Mr Zoran Djordjevic's election as the new defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. He felt that the prime minister had shown an extremely responsible attitude towards the citizens of Serbia, towards our public, and especially towards the women and members of the journalistic profession, that he had kept his promise to resolve the previous minister because of an inappropriate and inappropriate statement and that he had proposed a new candidate for the defence minister in the process that the Constitution and the law had promised. Serbia is needed as soon as possible by the first man of the Ministry of Defence, because as a country, a region, the continent, we are facing growing challenges of peace, security, order and legality, and above all because of wars, conflicts, due to acts of terrorism happening in the Middle East, as well as in North Africa. Certain security challenges exist in the region, of which it is very important that Serbia can commit itself to strengthening its defence system. Of course, the Serbian government has been properly assessed in international circles, as a factor of stability in the region and that no inflammatory statements have come from our side, but rather the Serbian Government is committed to the process of reconciliation in the region and we are facing, therefore, as an entire continent with a major refugee, migrant crisis, a challenge that may at some point be overcome by both the jurisdiction and the possibilities of civil authorities and members of the interior ministry, which will also require the response of the armed forces, or the Army of the Republic of Serbia. It encourages the EU to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia that we are dealing with this biggest refugee crisis, after World War II and indeed all the praises for the government of the Republic of Serbia that all make migrants, these unfortunates, refugees who are on the ground of Serbia get all the help they need and when it comes to housing, food and financial assistance and good words, which means a lot to these people and what they keep pointing out and when they arrive at countries that are their destination. In the past three and a half years, since the election of the current prime minister, Mr Alexander Vukic, was then made as defence minister, many positive and essential changes have been made in the defence ministry and Serbia's military. We believe that it is necessary to continue these reforms that will lead to an even greater level of security of our country, to further professionalisation of the military, to its even better training, to training, to equipment and, therefore, to much work on, the higher social status of employees in this area, to continue this very important, positive trend of increasing exports of our dedicated industry and to continue co-operation with other defence and military ministries, to continue our very significant participation in peace missions, for which we also get praise from partner countries in the context of whose contingents we participate and from all other significant factors of today's world. Because we're from someone who was the very territory in which the peace missions were in, we've become the one who contributes to establishing peace and guaranteeing security in the crisis areas of the world. The best confirmation that the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are on track is the huge trust of the citizens they have in these institutions. Research shows that lately citizens have the highest confidence in the Army of Serbia again, almost 50% of our people point out that the army is the most trusted institution and this reminds us exactly that the military has now regained that trust, the one that it had in the most famous days of our winning and military tradition, let's say after the great victories of the Kingdom of Serbia in the Balkan Wars and World War I. So that's the level of trust in the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence. The confidence also suggests that there is a great interest in professional engagement in Serbia's military and that every competition called appears 10 to 12 times more interested in engagement and that an increasing number of people and girls and young people are applying for voluntary service to the Serbian Army. Serbia today has an army that can guarantee the country's sovereignty and independence, most importantly. Mr. Djordjevic was the State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence in the previous period, which assures us that there will be continued extensive reforms in the defence sector, which have a truly positive flow, which have received support both domestic and professional, as well as the general public, as well as all relevant foreign policy partners of the Republic of Serbia. We believe in the SPO that it is very important that he is a man from the system, so to speak, from the portfolio, which is well aware of everything that has been done so far at the Ministry of Defense, which is familiar with the plans and how these plans are achieved. Mr. Djordjevic, as state secretary at the Ministry of Defence, has already become an active participant in the process of co-operation of Southeast European defence ministers, has achieved successful and intensive co-operation with representatives of the Western Military Alliance's Foreign Committee, the European Defence Agency, and his working meetings with UN representatives, the government of the Russian Federation, are represented by the embassy of the most important countries of today's world, the United States, France, Italy and other representatives. He had more meetings with the NATO Office, as well as with representatives of the National Weapons Directors' Conference. Significantly, in the activities of the Ministry of Defence there will be no interregnum, there will be no empty walk, there will be no waste of time, but these activities will begin to continue, so they will be continuous. Our Ministry of Defence is in line with the declared state policy to successfully maintain a distance towards the partners both in the east and the west, which is witnessed by a number of military-technical agreements, for example, such as those with the Western Military Alliance such as the Sofa Agreement on the Application of Contracts and Charters of the Agreement, then the IPAP Agreement on joint activities and deepening co-operation. Then, the NSP agreement on co-operation in the field of logistics support. There are also joint military exercises, both with members of the Russian Federation and with members of the Western Military Union, equally successful training members of our army in several foreign states both in the east and west. Experience and information are also exchanged at the same time. What we think should continue, which has been successfully launched, is the expansion of a network of Serbian military diplomacy that has been constantly strengthening, which is evident and the fact that our country has received several new defence statements where it has not had them before. They are specifically hired to work in favour of our country, to represent the capacity of the University of Defence, VMA, the Centre for the Completion of Staff of the ABHO, the Remont Institutes and the Peace Operation Centre. The SPO parliamentary group supports all signed and ratified agreements with other countries, as well as with military alliances, because it is a guarantee that we will be part of the collective security system, that we are a respectable factor, a partner and that we are an equal player in decision-making in today's world. We believe that our armed forces will never be forced to engage and that Serbia will solve all issues with other countries through peaceful diplomatic and political means. This is undoubtedly contributed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's views, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the SPO most strongly supports the European reforms that are being implemented, the Brussels agreements, the process of reconciliation in the region, the particular contribution we make to achieving in BiH and this process of reconciliation between the Serbian and Bosniak people, we support the Prime Minister's determination to make this much reconciliation in the region and for the best possible relations with neighbours. We particularly support Serbia's integration into the family of organised democratic European states while preserving our traditional good relations with the Russian Federation, but also with China and other important countries of the modern world. We believe that all these will successfully start jobs, projects, activities, to be successfully continued in the coming period after parliamentary elections and the formation of a new government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52394	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Suleiman Ugljanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52395	Dear Presidents, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Sandzak Democratic Action Party will support the election of a new candidate for the defence minister, primarily for two reasons, I must say. First, as a successful economic expert, and because of the situation in which our country and the military themselves are located as a good economic expert, it can enable the sustainable development and work of our army. First thing, we as a state have a good brand, a good scientific and teaching staff for the education of officers, it can be one big, big capital of our future work and the development of our defense. Another thing, we have a good dedicated industry, and if properly, as a good economist, a programme for the proper direction of development of our dedicated industry, also with our quality products, we can be competitive on the world market and that can make our army's life sustainable. The third thing and the most important thing in all of this is VMA. Our VMA is at the very top of the world, both in knowledge and in experience and in equipment as far as medical science is concerned, and it can be a large scientific and teaching base not only for ordinary countries, but also for major military alliances. These are some opportunities that have defined us to support Mr. Djordjevic as future defence minister, because as a good economist, all of this can be used as one basis for our economic independence of the military, to take her off the state budget. Another thing I want to talk about, I'm going to say as Bosniak and I expect Mr. Djordjevic to be a young man, another thing that we support is that he was a young man in the '90s, and he didn't have time to be responsible for many of the things that the JNAs did at the time, later the Yugoslav Army, and I expect that he will have the strength and will to initiate a lustration procedure for all those people who are through the military and in the name of the army and in that command staff, to initiate a procedure for all those who are guilty and who have done nothing, and could do for the mass abduction of Bosniaks in the North of October 1992, for the shelling of Bosniak villages in Priboj which the Army of Yugoslavia, then the Uzki Corps and for kidnapping of Bosniaks in the North. If lustration is carried out and they are punished, then the Bosniaks will be much more free to live and feel security in this country, not to expect in every single person a danger to life. Third, our country, by decision of the International Court of Justice in 2007 found guilty of the Convention on the Prevention of Crime and Genocide, because it did not prevent genocide in Srebrenica and did not arrest and punish the perpetrators of these crimes and did not hand over to The Hague tribunal. All of this is one great burden that burdens us all as citizens of this country, as MPs and all responsible people. I expect that Mr. Djordjevic will have the strength, courage and ability to initiate the procedure to shed light on these crimes and to remove responsibility from both the Serbian state and all future Serb generations for the evil that someone has done against Bosniaks on their behalf. Finally, when we talk about an economist, a successful economist, a capable man I want to say that we expect, you know SDA Sandzak from the very beginning advocates European and NATO integration, I think in continuity Mr. Djordjevic will manage to bring our country to a place, to the status of getting a membership invitation and thus obtain a great precondition on the scale of safe countries, to raise our rating and become a country favourable to foreign investment. It's all going towards our faster economic development together. I repeat, I congratulate the government for deciding to place those people in this place who know how to make money, not those who only know how to spend money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52396	Thank you. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52397	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Ugljanin, but in two words, I am forced to react. The state of Serbia is not advertised by the International Court of Justice's wrong verdict in The Hague, but it is true that everything that has happened in Srebrenica has always been, I would say, the subject of the strictest condemnation of any normal and every rational one. I want to ask you, Mr. Ugljanin, it's been many years, we all said what we had to say. There have been many crimes against the Serb people in various parts of the former Yugoslavia, but if in each of our discussions we always return to what happened 20 and 25 years ago, I fear, which, of course, I believe should never be forgotten, but if in everything we always go back to the past and draw conclusions that someone has no confidence in the unbalanced faces, I think that Bosniaks and in Pazar, in Tutina, Shadows or anywhere else to live, in Belgrade, New Sad, Subotics feel free or feel free to feel like citizens, citizens of this country and to trust their state bodies. Because I'm sure no soldier, no policeman makes a difference to our citizens because one Serb, another Bosniak, third Hungarian, fourth belongs to any other people. I think it's the wealth of Serbia. I think that's how all the members of the government behave. As nations in the former Yugoslavia's space, we have been through terribly difficult times in the past 100 years, since the Balkan wars, the First World War, the Second World War, in which many have suffered, especially the Serbian people dramatically suffered, especially Serbs west of Drina and Danube so much so that, I would say, the people of the Second World War are a four-way people on the side of the victory force. By the number of his victims, a small nation would suffer as much! I'm telling you this because I know and I know how I was raised and what we've all been through. Somehow we lived, although I was born in 1970, we lived in what happened between 1941 and 1945. I'm just afraid that some other people today don't try in a similar way to talk about themselves and their peoples, because such things, this is not a replica of what you're saying, can always lead us to difficult emotions and serious problems in the future. Serbs and Bosniaks must live together. We can live beside others, but we Serbs with you Bosniaks must live together. We can't live side by side. We have a significant number of members, a significant number of Bosniaks in our country, in Serbia, we have Serbs four times more in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, what do we do about it? What do we do with it? Shall we say that these are not Serbs here, or that these are not Bosniaks here? How, in what way should we look at this future rather than live together? And I'm not ashamed of all our proposals, even though I know it's not popular, because in Serbia it's always popular to say all the worst about the other one. You say all the worst because that's how you're going to get huge support from people, huge support from the people, because people like to hear it very much. Even though it's an election, it's not my idea to talk like that. I think we have to live not only as close as we can, but we're ready to talk to Bosnia and Herzegovina, not just implement the CEFTA agreement. I think it is pointless for trucks to stand on the border between Serbia and Bosnia for two, three and five days. One day we'll end it, when we have a fundamental single market that we can attract together. Remember, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina can say together – hey, so there are 12 million of us, come to us to invest. Suddenly you become the sixth or seventh country in Europe by size, the size of the market. That's all I'm talking about, how much more interesting you're getting. That's why I'm sure and I hope that we've learned our lessons from the past, not because we have to love each other, not because you have to love us or I don't know who else, but because it seems to me that reason requires. We have a lot of heads that count things in different ways. I say things, because these people can never count people, and they're supposed to count people. Well, some say -- we're in Bosnia two million and 300, we're going to take these Serbs, which is a million and 300, and yet these of us on the other side say -- we're a total of seven-eight million, and there's two-and-a-half million, we're three- or four times stronger, we can always beat them. And? Is someone really going to disappear? Is someone really ready to destroy the entire nations? Does anyone really think that's going to happen in the future? And you know perfectly well that I'm telling the truth and you know how many hotheads there are between one and the other, in both countries, both in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia. I think that's exactly why you should talk, and that's why I am thanked, with respect for the state authorities, the military and the police, because I'm sure both the military and the police are protecting all citizens of Serbia in the best possible way today, without any difference that can be made on the national issue, religious or any other matter. I'd say that kind of normality and security brings us stability. We have repeatedly been silent and have not responded to the various provocations that came from the region. Not because we were weak, not because we weren't supposed to say something, or not because it wouldn't bring us political points, but because we wanted to shut up. I've spoken to people several times in government sessions – please don't let anyone answer this, I won't answer, don't answer. Because peace is more important to us than to answer every word. We struggled to respond to Croatia for the first 48 hours, insecure because we don't understand what happened. How is it even possible for someone to wage a customs war against Serbia for no reason? Now, let me ask you all in the O.R., I am grateful to most people for their support because, at that moment, Serbia was truly united in defending its national, state and economic interests, but what were we to blame for at that time? For nothing. What we had migrants and what the migrants no longer wanted, the refugees could no longer cross through Hungary to Central and Western Europe, but were heading towards Croatia. Imagine that terrible Serbian guilt. Then they said - trucks and buses from Serbia couldn't, and they still got on buses to take ID cards, so when they see he's a Serb, they say - go outside. So that's what we've reacted to withheld, calmly, but resolutely, wanting to show that we want normal relations with everyone in the region, and we've been looking forward to doing so with the help of Europe, not saying we win this crisis, but to overcome this crisis because they've given up their... Whatever I'd call those measures, that would be an insufficient expression. But I just wanted to show you that even then, even though you realize that we're not weaker by anything, we've been restrained, we've watched at every moment just how we're going to treat each other and how we're going to treat our neighbors, because we want to live together and because we believe with them, apart from each other, with the Bosniaks together and together. So, because stability is what is most important for Serbia. If we manage to maintain this, I have no concerns about whether Serbia will have a positive economic growth in 2016, there is neither the World Bank nor the IMF, 2017, there is no World Bank, no IMF, no 2018, no for 2019. So we're going to have five years of intense and dynamic economic growth without even one year of recession. But to have it, we need this kind of stability. So I ask you once again to show greater trust, greater faith in the competent state authorities, and I am absolutely sure that then all other people, and those Bosniaks who have confidence in other politicians, will be able to gain that kind of confidence and security, clear knowledge, clear knowledge that they are here on their own, that they live in their own country, that they live in their own home, and that we do not make any difference between whether they are Serbs, whether they are Bosniak or whether they are Hungarian, because they all share Serbia's homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52398	I'll give you my word, but just for a little while, even though there's no real basis for replication, there was nothing there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52399	I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister, but for the sake of truth, for the sake of good intentions and good faith in working together, I must say a few words. There's one fact, we all know that a crime that doesn't get punished will be repeated. I was talking about Mr. Djordjevic in the best tone possible and on the organs of our party today, and because he is a young man and is an economist. And what I'm saying is, I'm obliged as a MP and at the same time as the president of the Bosniak National Council to say some things, what pains the Bosniaks. Don't let it offend you. I want to say, we'd better make a diagnosis to solve it. If we don't have a proper diagnosis, we can't work it out. Mr. Prime Minister, crimes against Bosniaks have been committed by men in the uniforms of the official state military, police and under command. We need to know that. All reports speak, witnesses speak. We faced witnesses three days ago. Therefore, I am not going to spread a further story, we have a solution, give as Prime Minister, help us to create conditions for Bosniaks to return to the action group, to draw up an action plan for Chapter 23, to respect the opinions of Bosniaks, specifically numbers, letters, dates in this action plan and to put the resolution on the agenda in this Serbian Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52400	Time. Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52401	... That's how we solve everything for all time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52402	Ambassador, thank you. I've given you two minutes to thank you very much. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52403	Madam President of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Vucicu, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Mr Djordjevic, future defence ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, will support the proposal by Mr Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to elect Mr Zoran Djordjevic as Minister of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Reading his biography, I came to the conclusion that at the moment, Prime Minister Vukic's decision to propose Mr Djordjevic is fully in place for the defence minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why? For the reason that Mr. Djordjevic has been the Secretary of State for more than four years at the Ministry of Defence and at a time when you, Mr. Prime Minister, were Minister of Defence and when Mr. Rodic was Mr. Gasic and surely you had in mind, knowing him and his work and the quality of his work and what he had achieved so far, as State Secretary, when you decided to propose to Mr. Djordjevic as Minister of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The question now raises how long he will be defence minister. As far as Unity Serbia is concerned, I am sure that after these elections, this assembly majority will form the government of the Republic of Serbia and that Mr. Djordjevic will continue to carry out these tasks continuously. The Single Serbia Parliament Club has no dilemma as to whether Mr. Djordjevic should propose, support, in fact, for the minister of defence of the Republic of Serbia, but should say a few words about the army under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence in the Serbian Republic, which returned four, five years ago and increasingly regained its reputation, the one that had both in the domestic public and international public. It is certainly the contribution of all ministers who were back three, four years at the head of the defence ministry, as well as people who were part of the defence ministry, state secretaries, assistants, so there is certainly Mr. Djordjevic. What the government has been doing for years and creating this policy of military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia should also be stressed is that it should co-operate with both the NATO Pact and Russia and with all other forces that mean something on the international scene, and in this part you have full support, both for the Prime Minister and for the Ministry of Defence by the Single Serbia, not only the Single Serbia MPs, but for all members of the Single Serbia. It is normal for us to expect that there will be speeches in this debate on some other things that are not the subject of today's session, but it will be tied up because yet the elections are announced, as it is said, are expected to be, let me say, conditionally on April 24th, and many may use the opportunity to try to get some political point before the official elections are discussed. Unique Serbia can only say the following -- all citizens who go to these upcoming elections should decide on the basis of what they see, not what they hear. So, both at the local and state level, you can see what the locals have done in their territories, local officials and local authorities, as well as what the government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the coming period. When the summit comes to the conclusion that even the next better authorities will not be from the government that is now headed by the state of Serbia and the Unity of Serbia calls on citizens to trust them and to be able to form a government, and thus, Mr. Djordjevic remains again, as we choose him today, defence minister. So, if I don't owe a lot of people and don't use this opportunity to say something else that's not related to the agenda point, and I'd like everyone who takes part in the debate today, and not to engage in individual cases, against those or those, those people, national minorities, etc. if something was done, which may not have been in line with some of the regulations that existed at the time. Let's look into the future, let's develop Serbia, let's make Serbia more beautiful, richer, want to live in Serbia, that young people stay in Serbia, and this will also help the defence minister and that information that I heard a certain day ago that encourages me. Some time ago, I heard from people who run the Jagodina military department, that from month to month there were more and more young people who wanted to volunteer to serve the Army of the Republic of Serbia. This is proof that both the Ministry of Defence and the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing well. Unique Serbia, once again, gives full support to both the Government and the Minister's proposal, and I will conclude by doing so, Mr. Prime Minister, any honor that you are after a long time ago, I do not know how many years, you are the only prime minister who has respected the Constitution and made a proposal for a new minister, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, Mr. Djordjevic, allow me to congratulate you in advance on your choice as Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52404	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52405	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected National Assembly presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports the proposal to make Mr Zoran Djordjevic a new defence minister. It is a very logical proposal, a very high-quality proposal, given his career, given his human, moral capacity, but of course and educated, which is very important to us that during his career and work in the Ministry of Defence himself, he has completed high-level security studies at the state university, which, of course, qualify him to perform in a quality and good way in the coming period as defence minister. Of course, the area of defense is the area that penetrates all segments of our social life. It has a drastic impact on economic life, it affects energy, agriculture policy, everything that a country and its policy define in the global world and global conditions. I cannot mention what is most important to the security policy, which is the foreign-political context, a context which, thanks to Prime Minister Vukic, defines our country as a highly respected country on the international side. I think that for the past 25 to 30 years, we have never had such a good foreign policy position, where we are respected by the United States, by our European partners, fulfilling our strategic goal of making our country a full member of the EU, but respected by our friends and partners from the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, South Korea, so from the Far East and the Middle East. About three to four weeks ago, I had the opportunity to attend an important gathering on renewable energy sources in Abu Dhabi, otherwise, the United Arab Emirates have, or define a special envoy for UN renewable energy sources, and here I had the opportunity to see how much Serbia was appreciated there thanks exclusively to personal efforts, personal contacts, people businessmen, US politicians, the EU competed to give to Mr Al-Jaber, State Minister, projects that would be implemented worldwide. But Serbia, although it may not be as interesting for companies such as Mazdar, for companies such as Emerpropertis that are now implementing the 25 billion-euro project in the coming period, becomes the country in which Emerpropertis will invest 3.2 billion euros and with full responsibility, I argue the biggest project to be implemented in the territory of Europe. Of course, it is not necessary to lose sight that this is very important for our security policy and for our international reputation when it comes to our defences, when it comes to our security forces. To recapitulate with foreign policy what all our partners say is that Serbia keeps what it promises and that Serbia finally has what is the condition of "son qua non" foreign policy, which is credibility. And thanks to this, we also have credibility when it comes to defence policy, when it comes to security policy, we participate actively in European integration, we participate actively in major military alliances and in their work. So we have a clear, good, quality and proactive role, and we have raised the level of work of our dedicated industry that can represent one of the basic, main pillars of our economy and our country's development and of course regional co-operation and cooperation in the fight against the greatest monsters of the 21st century, which is a threat to international terrorism. I must also mention Serbia's good role in the migration crisis, when it comes to regional co-operation, and that is what defines Serbia as one country that is no longer on the table of international forums, but Serbia today is a country that is part of a solution, which offers solutions that are highly constructive and that in any case defines the better position of our country that reflects and security policy. What he expects, I hope, a new defence minister in the coming period, is a job that can never be done. It is a job to raise the efficiency and efficiency and the military, to raise the level of personnel team, to raise the level of conditions within which the military works and works, but in any case, given the quality and what defines the biography of Mr. Djordjevic, whom I am honored to know personally, defines that he will manage this sector in one, good, honorable, moral and quality way. I would like to join Mr Petrovic, that this should not be and hope that there will be no period of four months, but that he will continue his job in the next four-year term. What Serbia needs and what Serbia defines as the engine of its development in the coming period, are people like Mr. Djordjevic, who have moral capacity, education capacity, to run such important segments of our country, which are important for overall development, because of the overall context of functioning in the region, but also in terms of global aspects of the functioning of the whole world. We see that although there are no direct threats to our country, for our region, almost the whole world is dealing with the issue of international terrorism, the migration crisis, and exactly the answer to the question, when this crisis will be resolved, when there will be a more lasting peace, one focus on the economic crisis, on economic issues, on honor and dignity of ordinary people, exactly how the great forces and major military alliances will deal with the problems that are happening today in the Middle East. Will great world players, such as Iran, Saudi Arabia, such as Japan and China, define their relations or redefine them, at a better and better level, so that, of course, it has a positive effect on the whole world. Serbia, in any case, needs to be prepared, ready, to develop its army, its defence policy, to develop regional co-operation, to develop European integration, integration and ties to strong military alliances. In any case, it invests, as much as it does in the field of defence in science, in the university, in defence studies, which has been very well done so far, but I hope that Mr. Djordjevic, in any case, will do everything that defines innovation in the military and innovation in the knowledge itself, in new technologies, will define both our policy and the security of our country and our citizens, which is, in any case, the priority of both this government and this Parliament and all state institutions. I want you to do this job in the most responsible, conscious and best possible way. Thank you again and we will support your election in voting time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52406	The word is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52407	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Ministers and members of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's proposal to elect Zoran Djordjevic as the new defence minister, is a wise and rational decision for the New Serbia parliamentary group, and we will vote in favour of your proposal at the time of voting, because we believe that you have been very dedicated and dedicated to modernising the army, to the preservation of Serbia's defence system, to improve its internal organisation. Also, you have been very active in all activities of the Ministry of Defence in the work of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, whose member I am, and above all in the submission of regular three-month reports, in the laws that you have proposed. It is very important for me that you participated very actively in the implementation of the UN Resolution 1325 Action Plan "Wifes, Peace and Security" and that we, thanks to this way of implementing the action plan today, have more than 10% of women soldiers in Serbia's defence system and in peace operations. When running for a function, biography and personal references, as well as the results achieved, are the best proposal and the best opportunity to assess how the proposed candidate will perform his function. I mean, as a member of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, I have to say in the work that you've submitted, when it comes to the Ministry's reports, the results that the team's work has achieved, and it's best to have those results compared to one of the previous ones before you took office. It is very important to point out that the defence ministry's budget was spent with 99.7% and that the budget spending earlier was lower by 12%. It is very important to point out that the number of hours of attack planes has been raised from two to 40 hours, that since 2008 four times more Serbian military members participate in peacekeeping operations, that savings amounting to 1.3 billion dinars have been achieved, that the housing issue has been resolved in 2015 for 900 Serbian Army officers and soldiers, and that since 2012, since the moment you are secretary of state at the Ministry of Defence, 4,082 housing issues have been resolved by 2015. Serbia's military participates in 11 peacekeeping operations with more than 600 soldiers a year and preserves world peace and best represents the state of Serbia. The revenue from the sale of the dedicated industry has been increased and amounts to 1.1 billion dinars, with contracts for this year still worth 400,000 euros, the value of licenses issued for the export of NGOs is over $750,000. The number of workers in defence industry manufacturing factories has also been increased, by some 2,015 workers. Salaries are also up 15.4%. Voluntary military service has been increased. Of the reported 4.413 candidates, it is addressed to serve a military term of 2.359. After the 21st year, secondary vocational education of seniors was reintroduced. Military equipment has also been purchased in the last three years 35,865 sets of new uniforms and 31,445 pairs of wool boots. When we talk about these results, it is certainly very important to note that they are also seen in international circles. I, on this occasion, must point out, because of the citizens of Serbia, the research of a respectable Global Firepower web portal that takes more than 50 different factors into account in order to measure the strength of each army individually and the Army of the Republic of Serbia is ranked 60th, I am talking about research for 2015, from a total of 106 countries of the world whose armies are even considered. Well, maybe someone will say -- well, 60th place is not a place, and I would say to those who would think so, I want to answer that armies over 100 countries are not at all taken into account when it comes to this research and that the Serbian Army is better ranked than three countries in an environment that are members of the EU, that is Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia. While, for example, the armies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia have not been considered at all. Only Croatia, Romania and Greece are a little more ranked than we are. I will conclude my statement with the fact that the fight against corruption in the Serbian Army is very important. Research done, above all by international agencies, shows that we have progressed in 2014 and that we are no longer in the Group of D countries at high risk of corruption, but in a group of countries with moderate risk of corruption. These are the results of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, which, Mr. Djordjevic, qualify you to perform such an important function in the coming period. Once again, I would like to say that the NS parliamentary group will support your choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52408	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52409	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have found ourselves in this situation today, we will agree with the unusual but certainly not unique and never before, a situation that has never happened in Serbia before. The minister who is elected during the term of office of a government, after the change of the previous minister, is certainly not something that has never happened in Serbia's history, as said here. It has been three months since the incident and the insult that Minister Gasic made to a journalist and two months the Serbian public has waited, journalists have demanded the prime minister's promise to replace the defence minister. Two months. At the time, the Prime Minister spoke – I'm looking for a replacement, I can't find the right person. Finally, Minister Gasic's shift took place on February 5th of this year, and then within the last legal deadline, the 15-day maximum is 15 days, as early as possible, finally the Prime Minister has proposed to the current State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, which was there with the previous three ministers for a new, fourth candidate for the defence minister in less than four years. Then we waited another ten days and three previous sessions of the Assembly for this point to finally come to the agenda and behold wonders, it is practically the last working day of this Assembly, and therefore, unlike the previous two times when we changed ministers in the term of this government, first Minister Vujovic when we chose as Minister of Finance and then Minister Sertic for Minister of Business, the prime minister came to be here, explained his proposal and participated in the debate, and that is good, because it is his legal and business obligation. The previous obligation has not been fulfilled twice. It is a good thing that today is here and that we can talk from the discussion and the very proposing prime minister and fellow MPs, at least about the candidate for the defence minister and future development of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, since how much tomorrow this parliament will be practically dissolved and we will have a little less than two months and elections. This session should, in some way, be one review of what was done in a little less than two years from now, the prime minister himself talked about it, talking about a number of laws adopted here, which he is happy and proud of, but I can say that because of a large number of these laws to Serbian citizens today is worse than it was two years ago, starting with the Law on Work that the prime minister spoke of, then the Law on Pension Reduction, the Law on Salary Salutation and a number of other reform laws, about a number of Lex specialities that we have brought here over the past two years, which have reduced legal certainty and reduced the number of investors that come into Serbia. Investors follow and see that according to the laws in the Assembly, which are passed in the Assembly, that there are privileged investors, those who change laws and there are others and because they are recognized in those others because they are not friends with the Prime Minister, they do not come to Serbia, they come to the surrounding countries and today Serbia is after the investments...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52410	If we can at least connect the investments from the DOD domain, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52411	Of course. These investments are supposed to bring...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52412	If I didn't get an objection to breaking the Rules of Procedure, I wouldn't want to break the Rules of Procedure. So, at least something about a intentional or something, if I may direct you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52413	Other colleagues also spoke positively about the results and investments, I guess I can speak a little critically about how policy was conducted, as others praised. Let us from the opposition say a few words against, because this is the only place you can say it. These investments that bypass us will not lead to an increase in GDP such as growth and growth in the countries around us. Serbia is today a country in the region with the smallest GDP growth. The average growth in the region is 2.6%, and in Serbia 0.8% last year. It's a good thing it's there, but to get to the region, to reach Europe, it has to be 6%, 7%, and that's not possible with this kind of policy. That's why the government in the elections, due to Serbia's future, cannot and must not receive citizens' support. The wages in the region today are the lowest and that is the result of the government's work. Pensions were reduced on average 5% by over 600,000 people down 10%, 15%, 20%.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52414	Ambassador, would you be so kind as to fit in somehow?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52415	This economic policy, poor, is a prerequisite, i.e. it does not create preconditions for the development of the Army, for changing the fact that funds from the Ministry of Defence are now spent on salaries increased from 76% to 80%. It's a candidate for the Secretary of Defense, seeing as you have some smile on your face, listed in the report for the last quarter of the work of the Ministry of Defense we're getting. You can see that from 76% to 80% increased pay-out. Here it is, staff management – Compared to the previous period, Serbia's Ministry of Defence and the military has been reduced from 85.8 to 85.3 and increased from 76.7% to 80% in income. So it's the Department of Defense's work report. We're a long way from that 40% pay-out formula, 30% for equipment, 30% for investment. Of course, we cannot talk about this today with the minister, or candidate for the minister whom I am prime minister says is temporary. It's not something we come up with. That's what the prime minister said, explaining this proposal for Mr. Djordjevic. What we cannot say or no one has said about whether there are plans and what to strengthen the contingent of the Republic of Serbia's military military missions. We have not talked about whether Serbia will start from a dead spot of practically halted Eurointegration and work to strengthen the common security policy with EU countries or whether we will send here combat messages from EU members who are our neighbours. Are we going to talk about that we need some kind of arms race, like someone in the region is going to be at war? We are practically surrounded by the countries of the NATO Pact and the only military force we can fight with is the NATO Pact. However, the prime minister has experience in waging war against the NATO pact. He beat him once already. But I don't think the citizens of Serbia need another such victory. What the government has done for these two years is to increase poverty in Serbia, 150,000 people are more poor today than they were two years ago, 30% of young people are at risk of poverty, and two million more people are at risk of poverty. This government does not offer any policy and measures to change that. The government has failed to agree on any new structural project within four years of its mandate. All the roads, bridges that the prime minister is opening these days, some obvious and unfinished, and then holes appear after two months, so the prime minister blames someone else for it again, are roads, bridges that are agreed, planned and provided funding by 2012. I'd like to hear what mile of highway was agreed on, for which mile of highway secured investments over the last two years? This government can be praised by the asphyxiation of media freedoms, by abolishing freedom...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52416	Which paper do you mean exactly from the area of defense? We have to stick to the subject as it were. I'm really trying very hard not to interrupt you. Exactly there are several magazines dealing with defence and the Serbian Army, so exactly what were you thinking?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52417	We can also talk about embarrassing articles in the "Defence" list that appeared against a state body when the former Army minister led the conflict with the Citizens' Protector. Then in the "Defence" list, you could read embarrassing texts about one representative of the state body, if you want to talk in detail about freedom of the media. We can talk about how we have an inefficient judiciary today, how criminals are released...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52418	We're out of military courts, MP. You've been involved in judicial reform for the past few years. We don't have military courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52419	We don't have military courts, but the courts are being prosecuted against both military and civilian personnel. Army members are in this sense equal to other citizens of Serbia. The situation in the judiciary represents everything, as well as the state of education, because members of the military have families, they have children. These children go to schools where teachers and teachers with the lowest incomes in the region, teachers and teachers who strike for five months last year and who speak for themselves today, and at the recognition of the minister himself, have not met what was agreed with them a year ago. Of course, members of the army, like all other Serbian citizens, are concerned when children are sent to such a school and how their children will be educated and what their future is. And this government does not offer a future for Serbian citizens, or offer them a future here. It offers them a future somewhere else, unfortunately, because in Serbia they will not be able to work and live decently if such a policy continues. In the end, this whole game and the play about the Secretary of Defense led to a paradoxical, perhaps first-looking and harmless, but essentially a very dangerous situation. In fact, a few days ago, we were informed by the Justice Minister that after the National Defence Council session, the President of the Republic authorised the Defence Minister to raise the situation in the military so that the military would be used in case of a need to assist police in the event of an escalating crisis with migrants. It was reported in a situation where Serbia did not have a defence minister, it had a duty-holder, an official of the finance minister who reduced salaries to the military, who reduced their wages, but no one, or almost no one spoke about why the President of the Republic passed his law and the Constitution gave authority to command and decide on the use of the army in war and peace, because he could not do so because the function of the defence minister was not to command the military, but to manage. It's impossible. That is why this division is made to know which of the civilian authorities is in command, and who is in charge of the military, and the division has been deliberately made, because the President of the Republic is in command of and deciding how to use it, and the minister is in charge. That playing with the state could have tragic consequences. Unfortunately, during the term of office of this government, we could see that. Because of such a game and will in command and leadership, seven people have lost their lives. I hope that the new defence minister, in this short time, will help to come to the truth about what happened on the night of 13 March 2015 and why seven people lost their lives on that night. I hope the defence minister will help to get to the full truth of why and how it came and whose responsibility was when the military members clashed with police officers on the streets of Belgrade. I hope that the new minister will allow better control, civilian control, security services and that the situation will not repeat that we have had the illegal monitoring of the activities of the political parties by the VBA. I hope the new defence minister will not go into conflict with other state authorities, that he will stick to the law and the constitution, which was not the case with the previous defence minister who, believing he had the protection of the prime minister, thought he could do whatever he wanted. We will not vote in favour of a proposal to elect a new defence minister, as we have not voted for the government's election, nor for any minister elected in the meantime. We are pleased that this session will end this term of office of the Assembly, which will have a very quick opportunity for citizens in the elections to express their views on this government and on the work of all its members by the Prime Minister, each individual minister, and this one we will choose today. I am sure if the elections are held in an even fair and democratic atmosphere, that this government and the parties supporting it will not get citizens' support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52420	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52421	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, it seemed to me that you wanted to joke with both us and your fellow Members of Parliament all the time, but that you wanted to make jokes that should be liked by the citizens of Serbia. Everything you said, or almost everything you said, is absolutely pointless, incorrect, misread. You should have asked some of your colleagues who were in the defense system for certain things you were talking about, because it's obvious that you don't know anything about it or little or almost anything, and all the other information you've been putting out in your head, I guess that's what you're saying when you're going somewhere alone, and there's no one to oppose you, and then you probably convince yourself of the truth of that data that they don't have. I'll try to answer a few things for you. You said how we met today in this situation, so as a change of minister, it's not the first time. No, I don't. The change of the minister due to his statement, only one statement in such a way, was given for the first time. You understood what I said. She understood the general public what I said, but you didn't think I'd be able to answer any of the lies you said in your statement. You say we've been waiting for two months. We've been waiting for you for 12 years, so we didn't wait for anything like this to happen. You say: behold, miracles, and your wonders are not welcomed, or what we welcome is better than to be welcomed. You lecture us every day and tell us how worse it is for the citizens, and you've led the country to bankruptcy, you've destroyed it. You just told us, I remind you, dear friends, honourable MPs, that we need GDP growth of six, seven percent. You say, in a year of fiscal consolidation, you have plus 0.8. In the year we save the country from the bankruptcy you brought us into, it's a little bit, and six, seven percent. When did you have six, seven percent? In 2008, when you had almost minus four, which is a record-breaking negative record in the state of Serbia. I'm sorry, 2009. Then you were, Mr. Djurishic, in power, bringing us to minus four, and now you're talking about plus six. You've had the biggest minus in Europe and the world, and now you're talking about how you would make plus six. Let those who pulled us out of your minus four, who pulled the country out of recession and started putting it in the plus, started making it a positive GDP, working. Just don't disrespect them. You say the labour law is wrong, you say the number of investors is down. I want to give you, respected citizens of Serbia and respected MPs, the latest NBS data - the total level of investment, the final data for 2015, is a billion and 800m euros, without even one major privatisation, as the type "Maxia" or some others they were only proud of. As for investments, they say, you heard earlier, everyone in the region is more successful, investors go to the region. The first to us in the region, of those who are not EU members, has 420m euros in investment levels. It's the first one next to us, and we're at a billion and 800. I didn't know 400 million was more than a billion and 800 and everyone went to them. I didn't know, but it's possible. Please, as God, ask us to give you accurate information, ask us to give you accurate and accurate information. It's so serious that no one can play with those things. Otherwise, since they talked about it here, they never know what it is they want, whether we're going to grant or not to grant subsidies. Until we had the Investment Act adopted by the National Assembly, yes, one part of the investors, even though we offered good conditions and until then, would go to Macedonia, Bulgaria or somewhere where their ministers had total arbitration freedom to give as much money as they wanted to any investor. You can't fight it, you can't fight it. Now we have better conditions and we can give up to 50% of the investment. All investors come to Serbia, absolutely all of them. What are you gonna do if somebody doesn't see it? I opened 27 factories, which isn't enough. It's never enough, but it's a lot more than it's done before, and we'll do it in the future. You're telling us that there's some kind of war-hoofing message that you're saying that we want to fight with NATO. What movie do you live in? What movie did you watch, so you came to that conclusion? Perhaps it bothers you to say that if someone gets ballistic missiles to target Serbia, that we have to defend our country or you would act so irresponsiblely that someone in the environment, who does not always show a friendly attitude towards Serbia, unlike the Serbian relationship with them, can arm themselves with these powerful tools and weapons without Serbia having an answer? Is that your message? My message to you, the honourable MPs and all the citizens of Serbia, Serbia will be a safe and secure country, we will secure our borders and we will be able to defend ourselves against anyone who goes after Serbia. That's our constitutional obligation, that's what we have to do in the future, and those who say -- well, let's get out of the way and see what someone does. We're not challenging anyone, we're not provoking anyone, we're not just sending friendly messages everywhere, so we're not gonna let anyone humiliate our country, we're not gonna let anyone threaten our country, and we don't have an adequate answer. I've, by the way, met all our friends in the West, told them and asked them not to arm that country, they haven't got that tool and weapon yet. He had more different promises that it wouldn't happen. We don't have a problem with that. If it happens, Serbia will have an adequate response. You're saying we boasted about winning NATO. No, I don't. We were just on the side of our country. I never said that you only won NATO, on the contrary, some others said that, so then you took it as a mantra, to repeat for the next 15 years, you still live in a period of 20 years, because you can't live in the modern age, you have no idea what you would offer the citizens. But then I was on the side of our people who was the victim, today I am on the side of our people, and I will always be on the side of our people. I'm not ashamed of it at all, I'm proud of it. No crime was committed by me, but those who attacked this country, those who killed Milica Rakic, and those who killed little Sanja in Varvarin, those who killed our people who were not guilty of anything. You're telling us, you're talking about pensioners, 5. 19% were pension cuts. With an increase of 1.25% then calculate what it is, it is about 3.70% in nominal amount and I am therefore particularly grateful to the pensioners. But if we had continued the policy you had, the pensioners wouldn't have retired. Some of you ruled out that, such as military pensioners, by your decision of 2007. We are paying, almost 200m euros today, because of your irresponsibility, 200m euros today we have to take from the taxpayers of Serbia to give to the military pensioners, because you took it from them in 2007, and you lecture me on responsibility to the pensioners. We give it back to military pensioners. That's our job. That's what we do. Pensioners know, they get a secure stable pension. We don't have a quarter falling by 15, 20, 30 and 50% on an annual level like that was your case. It's not big, it's small, it's not easy to live with it, but these people know in what economic conditions Serbia is left behind. That's why they want economic progress. My friend Milan Krkobiæ was recently at a rally, I think in Novi Sad and I have two questions left, I saw it on one television, he asked the pensioners, now as he can – do you want... . (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: "I apologize." Don’t worry, discipline is not taught in the National Assembly, nor is it polite. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: But not at the stadium. Mr. Zivkovic, you're there and if you didn't learn anything back, it comes to you. It's not worth it. You say you were talking about a helicopter again. Then when you don't know what you're going to do, you get it out. About people's intention to save one child. I don't know what more to tell you than to talk more about yourself, but to those you talked about. You're saying the Secretary of Defense is conducting an investigation. You are destroying our system of division of power, excluding the D.A.'s office, not doing their job, but doing the executive power. That's the kind of state you'd like to create for us, Mr. Djurishic. That the executive authority is conducting investigations in such a way, you said to the letter that it would deal with it. He has nothing to do with it. That's what the D.A. and the D.A.'s office is doing, is making a final decision whether there's a criminal offence or not, whether there's an indictment or not. It doesn't matter who the Secretary of Defense is. But what do you care, you said it that way, and you don't worry much, because that's what you say every day, so there's no one to correct you. You're talking about listening. I don't know what kind of wire you're talking about. About how you've been listening to me, or how you've been listening to President Nikolic, since you've been listening to both of you, like the first and the second men. That's normal for you. Great, if it's normal. It is good for Serbian citizens to hear that it is normal to listen to two leaders of opposition parties as you did. Great, and congratulations on that. We don't do it, and we never do it. I thank you for that. You talk to us about the media all the time, and I don't know what. You're telling us that, you who brought the worse Information Act than the one that was in 1998, for which I paid the highest price and for which I apologized to the citizens. You, who choked every free word anywhere in Serbia. You, who arrested the owner of the Courier, when you didn't like the Courier, and then decided to give him the Politika and Novosti, in order to defile your political opponents. You're telling us about it. There are no such examples in Serbia today. Such examples today in Serbia, fortunately not. Serbia is a free country. I'm always free to accept that kind of criticism and talk about what it is that we can improve. What is it that can be different, what is it that can be better. I don't have any problem with that, just don't tell us. Since we don't have a memory like a chicken, we can't remember what happened three, four years ago, when no word should have been published against you anywhere. And today, there is no newspaper in which there is no publication of the worst detestable and untrueness of both me and my family and everything else, and I am not going to talk about many other people and this calls for Parliament or the Government of Serbia, etc. So, as far as the inefficient judiciary is concerned, it's just a special topic, and we're still living in the reforms that you've been doing in the judiciary, we almost couldn't do anything after that because of the continuity of the judicial function as you know, which is the constitutional principle. If anyone needs me, I have the most objections to it, we have the most objections because we can't change anything from what you left us and still give us the sermons, tell us how and how we should behave on that matter. And citizens are supposed to believe that. Great, put us back in power to give you back -4 GDP growth. In the end, if you'll allow me, as far as highways and jobs are concerned, you've made lots of deals, only five kilometers of sidewalks you couldn't do, and you've made lots of deals. Everything you've arranged, we pay today, we pay regularly and pay dearly, and we pay expensive interest on it, but we do, and that's why we build these highways and we're going to build a highway to the Macedonian border and the highway to the Bulgarian border. The completion rate in 2012 was 17% and 9%, and today it is 77% and 59%. I think that's a big difference. I think it's a huge difference and that the citizens of Serbia see it. And that the citizens of Serbia see it very well, because you can't hide the path. We started building in the previous two years 345 bridges, 277 built. Count how much we have left, we'll build. I think that's good results. You should be looking forward to it. It can't always be bad. When I talk about the Ministry of Defense from a previous period there's something you can criticize, there are things that are good. You were talking about data you obviously don't read. We have been reducing since 2013, according to the 4.1 classification each year. So, at 68.4 2014, 62.5, then 60.35 are our salaries. The operating costs are 28.4, investment 11.4% is not good otherwise you know it's ideal, which is taught at school 50-30-20. We haven't gotten to that yet, but we're getting close. To know only one piece of information - income from contributions that I think speak for all people, who speak for all people in Serbia enough or unequivocally clear what the difference in the economic strength of the country is. The contributions in 2012 amounted to 287.3 billion dinars and accounted for 51.1% of the total revenue of the fund, and in 2016 at least 370 billion dinars, or 62.6% of the fund's income. This is an increase of 83 billion dinars -- an increase in income rates to contribute to the total revenue of 11.5%. It's a wonderful thing for Serbia. It shows that the economy is on healthier feet. Is he okay? Well, it's not good. It won't be good in two, three, five years, so you can say it's ideal, but it'll go better every year. And finally, to make a joke, you won't mind me saying, since you've been commenting on whether someone's temporary and someone's permanent, and someone doesn't know what his duration is, I'm going to tell you -- we're all temporary here, especially the government is temporary, only Tadic and Chad are eternal. Thank you very much. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52422	On what grounds? Marco Djurisic throws. Yeah, I don't think we're hearing from each other. Article 104. - on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, and I have decided that there is no basis for replication. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: No grounds? No, there's no basis for replication. I learned that from Vice President Gordana Komic. I followed you closely all earlier terms. Konstantin Arsenović has a word. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52423	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable MPs, today we elect the Secretary of Defense. I have one completely different approach to all the other debaters. It's important to me that the man that the president has proposed can perform this function, whether it has qualifications and abilities. What we know and what we heard, I think it does. I am particularly pleased with the principle and I think that this should be respected in future when choosing such one person as the defence minister or any minister, if possible, to emerge from that environment in which he has already worked. In this way we provide a continuity of work, bringing a quick man into work so that he can do what is expected of him. Here's the dilemma, some set it up, whether it's two months now, three months. It is important to me that a ministry such as the Ministry of Defence cannot be without a minister and cannot perform that function along with another function, which is otherwise complex, as we had the case, but it was an emergency to have an acting minister of defense. I believe that the proposed candidate, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, has all the qualifications from what I know, and it is up to him to prove himself through his work and justify this trust that is now being given to him. Personally, as far as PUPS is concerned, Mr. President, we will support this candidate and vote for him. I am convinced that he will justify it, that trust, and for me it is very important, and the situation both political and economical requires that regardless of the upcoming elections that we must have the Minister of Defence at all times, not just the Minister of Defence, and especially the Minister of Defence, not because I am from that structure in my own time, but I believe that both the economic and political situation in which we are located must have a minister who will lead such a significant ministry. I don't want to talk here about the role of Secretary of Defense, the Ministry of Defense and all the other things. We simply need to appoint a man here so he can perform his duties. In that sense, I'm finishing my debate. I support the proposal and I am convinced that Mr. Djordjevic will do his job well at the satisfaction of both the Ministry of Defence and all citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52424	I thank you, MP. The president has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52425	With all due respect, I just want to finish what I just started, so my mind took me to the other side. After the question – do people want such stable and secure pensions, they said – yes, we do, but then Krkobic asked another question, which was much more important and was the essence of what I wanted to say. He asked the question – and how important it is to us and how much we have sacrificed ourselves and whether we support our children, their future and a better economy of Serbia, and then there was a triple round of applause than it was on the first question. This showed how much the pensioners were not only aware of, not only of their country and their people and their children and their grandchildren, but of how much and incomparably less thought about themselves and their commodity, and how much more they cared about the progress of the state and the better future for their children. So thank you again and I'm sorry I didn't say that earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52426	Thank you. The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52427	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, ministers and fellow MPs, the DS parliamentary club will not vote for the proposed candidate for defence minister. We will not vote for this candidate because this candidate, the way in which we have been proposed and the time needed, the government to propose this candidate speaks in favour of our assessment and assessment of the work of this government, especially the human resources of this government, and we do not believe that the human resources policy of this government and the Prime Minister is good and that, based on such a staff policy, it is possible to achieve that the objectives of this government declared by the exposé of the Prime Minister in 2014, as well as some concrete plans and programmes, reforms that this government has announced to us continue to move the deadlines for achieving the promises it made. I'll say something about that a little later. What is now important to ask as a question first in the principle part of the debate on the proposed candidate – why are we discussing today a new defence minister, or candidate for defence minister? Why have we waited almost three months for this issue to be resolved? Today, the Prime Minister told us that it is very important that we have a minister of defense. We tend to accept it, of course, as a reason and see that, of course, there is a situation in the region that is complicated, etc. We're even willing to accept that as a reason. But if it is so important, then why did the prime minister wait with a proposal to resolve former Gasic for so long, that he would wait for the maximum possible deadline for proposing a new defence minister? And that's what we're deciding today, today we're discussing when the last hours of this government are numbered, today when, within an hour or a day, all ministers become just technical ministers, today when they're expected to do so, like, an hour or a day of opening new elections. So it is this within the legal framework and there is, of course, a priority to respect the law, but when you respect the law, it is important to assess the purpose of a decision, the quality of a decision that is proposed, and there we are, of course, very critical. We are waiting for the last moment and now we are asking the question – what is the last moment waiting for? It would have been better if we had done so immediately after the resolution of Minister Gasic. In this way, candidate Djordjevic would have had more time to introduce himself as a minister, regardless of some four-year experience he had as state secretary in the ministry. So we don't know what the reason is – whether it was necessary to consult with the SNS, whether there were any unique assessments, decisions, etc. Or were some other questions more important? The prime minister told us here, giving his answer to a national MP, asking the MPs to have more trust, more faith, as he said, in state authorities. You see, Prime Minister, it's our job not to trust. It's our job not to trust what the government is doing and saying. This is the task of every MP and every member of parliament in this House. And for the best of intentions, so to get to the best decisions, to get to the best solutions, and to say -- what you're proposing can be better, we can have better candidates for ministers, we can have better laws or we can have a better policy in the interests of Serbian citizens. Each of us here protects the interests of Serbian citizens and the interests of Serbia. Does it make sense to speak today and evaluate, assess the success of the government's defence policy, continue reform of the military, etc? We don't think it makes much sense, for a few reasons. First of all, Minister Djordjevic, or candidate Djordjevic, will immediately become a technical minister if he is elected today, and the mother will not be able to conduct some major policy in her place. What is also interesting, given that this is the last session of this House where we have the opportunity to see the prime minister, which was not a common case, because, as you know, this government is a recordr by a small number of days when it has responded to the obligation of business to come and answer the questions of the MPs. But here, for this occasion, I wanted to take a look at exactly what this government policy is in the area of defence, in the area of the military, and I looked at the exposés of the Prime Minister in 2014. I have to say that it doesn't really give any element and that's why we can't really assess what this government in that sector was going to do, so we can't even judge what the defence minister's job is in this sector. However, this exposure has led me to read several estimates that were given then in 2014 and I think it is very important that we remind ourselves all of it together, because it is important when we evaluate the successes and results of this government. It's important for the citizens of Serbia. In 2014, the Prime Minister says to us here – everything we do, all the difficult and painful measures we take, we will hold out for the next three years, so 2014, 2015 and 2016, and by the end of 2016, citizens will also have a healthier economy and more wages and halting public debt growth, etc. Is there someone who believes in it today, and even when promises are said to be fulfilled today, not in 2016, but in 2017, 2018, etc? Here, he says -- after several months of public sector wages would increase to make them bigger by the end of 2016, and full professionalisation of public business management is the elimination of losses in these companies. We recently discussed this, colleagues, when we passed the new Law to public companies, just a week ago in this Assembly, which was indirectly admitted by the Government that the law that passed the 2012/2013 bill. In fact, he didn't give the results and these goals didn't come true. But that's just by the way. I said, I looked at these exposés wanting to see what the Prime Minister promised us in the sphere of defence and military policy. Now a few words about candidate Djordjevic. First of all, candidate Djordjevic, or Prime Minister, sent us a very large biography, a large biography, which has almost four pages. Reading it, I thought at first glance – here, the prime minister decided to correct the impression left by former minister Gasic with his sexist, Nazi statements, so he suggested a man, Mr. Djordjevic, who is the chairman of the Political Council for Gender Equality in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I guess that's something to convince us that the practice at the Department of Defense, at least at the level of public statements to women and journalists, will be different. I am now interested in what candidate Djordjevic is actually thinking of the procedure and a statement by former minister of Gasic, who is also still vice president of the SNS. It is also very important to know whether and how he has advised the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence of Gasic to respect independent institutions, how the institution of the Simeon, or the Protector of Citizens, will be respected, knowing the relationship that Minister Gasic had with the Citizens' Protector and this very important independent institution. A few more words about this biography of candidate Djordjevic. I must say that I have seen that some very unusual details are included in this biography, the type, for example, which the high school has completed, it is something that is not usually stated, as well as that the holder of the diploma “Michilo Petrović Alas”. We see that he's a good mathematician and it's a really important diploma, but as much as my knowledge is, it's usually achieved at some basic levels of education, so it's not common to mention in a biography. However, what is very important is missing. Let's just say, there's no record of what basic studies he's completed, or I'm reading this badly, so it would be good if in some way, if we were to say high school, it would be good to state which college in basic studies ended by the candidate Djordjevic. I have to commend one look of the general commitment that exists among SNS personnel, which is commitment, the desire to constantly perfect their knowledge, even when they're high-ranking. It is probably followed by instructions from the Prime Minister on a large work energy and working area, and so Tomislav Nikolic, while in public office, acquired a very important scientific title, and of course Nebojsa Stefanovic while he was parliament speaker. So they're high-ranking, and they get diplomas. They either have a lot of time, or they have a really huge working energy. We see that candidate Djordjevic is at the doctoral studio right now, and that's all praise. What, unfortunately, causes us doubts, is what a school is about, or a college which, according to our knowledge, is exactly the university where Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic acquired his scientific title while he was in office. What is also very incomprehensible to us and it would be good to have it explained to us in some way, candidate Djordjevic said here that he has technical skills, very serious – financial control and governance, international banking and finance, banking risk management. I come under the circumstances, I know a little bit about that banking and finance are both very serious scientific disciplines. There is Minister Vujovic, also serious subjects at the Faculty of Economics and subjects of serious scientific research. We do not know what is meant by these "technical skills" in these areas unless they are official skills? It's a completely different thing. What is very important to us is to point out the following. Candidate Djordjevic has been the secretary of state for four years at the defence ministry. So he manages this ministry in the highest place after Minister Gasic. During the past four years, in the Ministry of Defense, labour conditions, standards of people working in the military have been significantly worsened. That's some question we're also worried about. Will this trend continue in the next period? So it is certain that the opportunities in our environment are both regionally and at European level and that, of course, for Serbia, it is good to have a defence minister. We have nothing to notice in that assessment. What's bothering us, I repeat again, is why have we waited so long to resolve this question - three months? So, Gasic's statement was in December, we resolved it in early February, and it's been a month since that we have a candidate here in front of the Serbian Parliament. We expected that today, when we choose a minister, it was indeed someone who in no way doubted their own expertise or their ability to manage such a large system as the defence system. So, all in all, when we talked about the resolution of Minister Gasic, we from the DS parliamentary group said that the choice of Gasic as defence minister was the responsibility of the Prime Minister. So now we must, of course, say the same thing. And the election of candidate Djordjevic as defence minister will be the responsibility of the government's president. So, happiness in the whole thing is that this government is counting the last hours, so hopefully this ministry will be short too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52428	Thank you. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to you for going to the opening of the monument to the greats of Serbian literature, the man who wrote "Golden Fleece", for me one of the best works of Serbian literature, the legendary Boris Pekic. Everything some haven't done in 22 years. I have to say, you really managed to cheer me up today. Your remarks, everything you've read, actually tells me how much I've been telling the truth and how right I was for everything I've been saying. Here's to starting with what you said, listen to this – have you heard before that the standard, the state of the army, the equipment of the army is incomparably worse than it was before. Did you hear that? You've heard concerns about the situation in the military, etc. Did you know that at a time when Mrs. Vukkovic ruled this country, the situation in the military was such that not all soldiers had one uniform, let alone a spare. One uniform. Today, all soldiers have a spare uniform, not only one uniform, but also a spare uniform, and for the first time in June this year they get summer uniforms, summer suits, which was never the case in Serbia's military during the previous period. How can I tell you, 35,865 sets of new uniforms and 31,445 pairs of new boots were purchased in the meantime. So much about it and going out with exact data, not with a philosophical story that people should listen to, because in our country it's common – everything is terrible, nothing is wrong, nothing will ever be good, and everything is always worse. With us Serbs, it is usually a characteristic that every time we talk about the present time, there is always something worse for us and it is always the hardest thing for us. And it's hard to remember exactly what was a few years ago, especially at a time when we were responsible. I listened to you for four minutes, so then you came back for another minute, you don't know how to spend your time, it all came down to two sentences -- why are the last hours counting, waiting for the last day. We've done everything in accordance with the law and these short legal time frames, and you're telling us about sexist and masculine outbursts. Well, what Bata Gasic did was scandalous and horrible, so it's been replaced. And that's one-tenth of what the vice president of your party did, Mr. Jesic, and what your colleagues in parliament did to the ladies here. Well, since you're not ashamed that you're giving me sermons here about sexist and masculine outbursts, and you've done nothing and you can do anything else, you have the nerve to talk about it. As a historical fact, we replaced the minister for that one sentence. We replaced the minister for one sentence, and you couldn't say, I'm sorry. You couldn't say, I'm sorry for the most serious and dirty insults your party's vice presidents make to the ladies, the press, and I don't know who. You've never been interested in that. That's the difference, which is that there's a responsibility with us and that someone loses their function, and you don't lose anything. The only reason he gets is because he who offends a political opponent more strongly, or one who offends a woman more deeply, can only count on a better position and a higher function in your political party. You guys said something a lot more serious today than that. Something that is very dangerous for the country. You said it was your job not to trust the state authorities. We were talking here today about the military and the police, and trust in the military and the police, when we talked about the relations between Serbs and Bosniaks. The job of all MPs is to trust the state authorities, your job is to criticize the government, not to trust the state authorities. That's a huge difference, because if you don't trust the state authorities, what if someone had trust in you? Well, I guess it's all based on trust, on a system of division of power, that state and state authorities have to function in accordance with the law. Well, that's the essence of democratic form, democracy as a form of political regime. I don't know which college you taught differently, since I didn't finish those colleges your president taught at. Something you kept in here about who he was when he finished what he was doing. Well, your president today, two years ago, as president of the District Government, has been in office for 15 years, doctorate. Which he didn't resign then, and then he went to study to doctor. He's never done anything, he's never done anything, he's never in his workplace, so I guess he had enough time, and then he was studying, so two years ago he was a doctor. How come you never remember anyone of your own when you talk about it? In his biography you see all the works of Mr. Djordjevic. Take a read, then tell me what's missing from these papers. When you talk about elementary studies and colleges, your president went to those colleges to give lectures, I never did. I accidentally graduated from law school here in Belgrade with very high marks, highest marks. I just don't know who else you're transferring, you're always something, you're some saints, you're very educated and smart, and everyone else is stupid. We've seen you run the country to say that none of them graduated from four primary school classes. But it's not about school, it's about whether you want to make your country a prosperous thing, something successful, or you want to destroy and destroy your country, and you have a lot of people who have both primary and high school and who would lead the country much more honestly and much better than your party did when it led. Don't be angry about a healthier economy. I can't help you, because I don't understand anything you've told me. As for one remark, whether it could have gone to consultations at SNS or not, I don't know where. We haven't had any consultations at the SNS. There's nothing to do with SNS. I guess that's what all the ministers take to the party first, and then you have to discuss this or that, or it was just a case before. That's not the case with us. We know whose constitutional and legal powers are. And on that point, there's a difference. So, since I think Bora Pekic is a historicly important thing for the state of Serbia, I am very sorry that part of the continuation of this good discussion, a little and fun discussion, will not be able to attend. But, I want to thank you, dear Mrs. Vuckovic, I want everyone else, all of you fellow friends, to thank you for fiercely criticizing the government, which you once had less, good arguments. Which we've learned a lot from you. I am convinced that in the future, those who come to our place will respond in the same way to those who think differently. I just want to tell you how rare I am in the National Assembly, you're right, I'm very rarely, in 22 months I've been ten times your prime minister in four years. Thank you very much. I wish you happy and successful work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52430	Thank you. Let's just change.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52431	I thank Mr. Prime Minister. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica. Why do you feel that you have the right to a replica? Well, after these answers, I think it's the last thing you should answer, but if you'd like to accept all of this, please. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52432	I have to answer for the citizens of Serbia. As for sexist statements, which the prime minister noted to some of our members of the Democratic Party, I did not want to say and remind the Serbian Parliament, and many remember it from the 1990s, when just today's president of the Assembly was the subject of very harsh sexist statements from the former party of the Prime Minister. Today, when she was defended from it, it was the MPs of the DS and we, as far as it goes, are principled always. Another thing, as far as our members are concerned, we don't agree to talk about their statements when some tabloids are quoted. However, the much more important question I want to answer is the question of Parliament's and government's relations, that parliament should not have confidence in state authorities, has to ask questions and that's what we do here every Tuesday and Thursday, when we ask questions for every state body, for a public enterprise, or for anyone who makes decisions that decide on life, the work of our citizens. It's something that we do here, and that's how we express our doubts, and we want to hear the answers, whenever there are reasons for doubt, whether some decisions have been made under the law, whether they are meaningful, whether they are in the interest of citizens and of our country. We have to keep doing this here. It is called the mistrust of MPs in state authorities, and of course we respect and apply all those decisions that are based on the law, in accordance with the division of power, it cannot come to anyone's mind to question and at least DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52433	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52434	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr. Djordjevic, I see that some of them are easily throwing stones at the SNS, and I was worth enough to find the biographies of government ministers in 2008, so I saw that all these candidates put their biographies around, although the government was far greater than this one, that they were able to put all their biographies on straight two sides of A4 formats, so I could see that these current DS candidates are such that the only thing they can say that they have been in college, they don't say how many years, or decades they've studied, but that's why they have some special courses in the United States, I respect. However, the first job was at the state administration. After 12, 13 years of study, the first employment in the state administration and from that state administration are not coming out. We have some more interesting things, then DS, a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, as its greatest value has and is listed in the biography, that the medal holder from the Balkan and Mediterranean Water Skiing Championships is. So, water skiing is very important and those medals he won, for the Ministry of Agriculture. I don't have a problem with my colleague Dragin skiing on the water and being very successful at it, but I have a problem that later in carrying out his government, he also planted Azotara and farmers and many others through various things against the law, criminal, which he did and which can be measured in millions and millions of euros. Those who throw stone at SNS must first take a good look at the mirror and what they see as a reflection in that mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52435	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, the head of the parliamentary group, let me finish the sentence, but specifically on this law, the authorised representative, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Djordje Milicevic. You tried to confuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52436	In any case, I would like to thank Mr Becic, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Mr Djordjevic, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, within a very clear and precise legal deadline, proposed and forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the obligation and duty, not only of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but of all of us to respect the law. We believe that such a defined proposal is fully correct and justified, not only for formal and legal reasons, because we fully agree with what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia said in the opening statement, that it is not good for a complex and complex defence system to be without a leader. Of course, the SPS parliamentary club will support the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal of the defence minister, and by supporting this proposal, we, as a parliamentary club, once again want to give clear and unequivocal support to the Prime Minister, the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, in realising what we consider to be essential goals. Here we think of the creation of a modern and developed, orderly, economically successful Serbia and Serbia which, we are convinced, will be part of the family of European peoples. The Socialist Party of Serbia, part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we share responsibilities and values when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we also share sanctions from voters, citizens in elections, as well as our coalition partners, alike. We are convinced that, working to realize what the objectives and principles of the Government of Serbia are, we are working in the best interests of our citizens and that this is the way and direction Serbia must and should go in the next period of time and that Serbia's reform course has no alternative. We are proud of the results of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that this government has achieved historical results, primarily in the field of internal reforms, has been strengthened and strengthened international reputation for Serbia, which we believe is very important and important, and when it comes to the region, I would say that Serbia has now become a symbol of some new values in the region today. So, this government and the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia have raised the scale when it comes to results, about the goals that both this and the previous government have introduced a single newspaper into Serbia's political life, which is an incomparable responsibility, seriousness and commitment when it comes to the work for which responsibility has been taken. We have said many times so far and this is the opinion and attitude of the SPS parliamentary group, it is our legitimate right and we believe that two key words when we talk about the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are reform and modernisation. We believe that in the previous period, the government has shown both its willingness and its ability to face problems, to lead an active policy, to meet problems and to solve them in the interests of our citizens. We believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown its readiness to conduct open dialogue on all open and important issues, right here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and thus the government has shown one serious and responsible relationship with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative body. This government of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear that it is leading a policy without a mask, that it does not want to hide anything, to hide it even when it addresses Serbian citizens and when it tells them difficult and unpopular measures, measures that represent necessity, because the crisis does not come out of popular but necessary measures, on which it cannot be politically profited, but also, it has shown that it wants to run politics and then no masks, when it is having important and significant talks with representatives of the international community. In the era of day-to-day political events and various attempts, imaginary affairs, various demeanors, or attempts to plot political events, demeaning the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we believe that the government should not waste time, but only deal with the overall successes and objectives. The proposal for a candidate that we are talking about today, the proposal for a candidate for a minister, we are actually viewing as part of a whole process, a process that was initiated when the government of the Republic of Serbia was formed and established, a process that has a clear objective, which is to realise the declared objectives and principles of the Government of Serbia. When it comes to the specific staff proposal, when it comes to Mr. Djordjevic, it is about the man coming from the system, which we think is very good, someone who knows the way and functioning of the defence system. We believe you will ensure the continuity of the realization of a clear vision of the defense system. The foundations of this clear vision were set during the mandate of the previous and this government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's army today has huge trust and huge support for Serbian citizens. That support and that trust didn't come from themselves. Great work has been made, great effort has been made, and the results of this work and this effort are visible and recognizable. About the importance of the defense system, I'd say today is about young people's interest in enrolment in military high school and military academy. I believe that you will continue, Mr. Djordjevic, as defence minister with an improvement in the position and standards of members of the military, that the dedicated industry, which is something recognised by the previous government and this Government of the Republic of Serbia, will be the primary driver of everything. In line with my military neutrality, I would also like to say a few words today, given that different views, different opinions, and I would like to express the view and opinion of the SPS parliamentary group. So we believe that, in accordance with its military neutrality, Serbia has in the previous period of time, and we believe that this will be the case in the coming period, building and developing good relations with the armies of the countries both in the east and in the west. We believe that Serbia's goal, Serbia's intention is not to become a NATO member, but we respect the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with one partner relationship, or that we have one, to be a responsible and serious talker with NATO in order to contribute jointly to the preservation of stability in the region. In doing so, of course, we also have in mind the danger of the migrant crisis and of course the problems of terrorism. This issue today in public, I am not talking about colleagues who spoke today in the Republic Parliament, but this issue today in public seems to me to be trying to politicise some political options and thus seizing some cheap political points and it seems to me that the political options that at this point have the least right to do so. They do not do so, as they claim, for patriotic but political reasons and political marketing because their patriotism had the opportunity to show at the part of the moment when they had responsibility, when they performed responsible functions, when they led the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when Serbia was kidnapped part of the territory, when one-sided independence of Kosovo and Metohija was declared, when absolutely no one asked us anything, and when 80-90 countries accepted the act of unilateral independence of Kosovo and Metohija. What was the highest degree of political activity of these political options then? That there's an organized protest? That the kiosk was knocked down? What's the burning American embassy? So it's not patriotic, it's purely political reasons and pure political marketing. The government of the Republic of Serbia, I would say, takes good care of the interests of those living in Kosovo and Metohija, and consider Serbia their country and the Government of the Republic of Serbia was and will always be with its people in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about patriotism, it's not a subject, but I want to say what patriotism is for us today. Patriotism today is every new factory. Patriotism today is every new job, every job saved. Patriotism today is a renewed infrastructure, a successful economy, but also a better standard of living for citizens. So everything the government of the Republic of Serbia does successfully. Finally, in the complex military-political relations in the world and the migrant crisis, the Prime Minister of Defence is appointed and elected, I will repeat, for us it is fully and properly and justified. We need a comprehensive defence system, and we need continuity, which was also discussed in the opening presentation by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I purposely note this because of those who criticise the decision to elect a minister for a month or two until the formation of a new government of the Republic of Serbia, and at the same time they do not know or do not know that the defence system does not know the elections, that the defence system does not know terrorism, challenges, risks and threats or any other form of threat to our security. This is why we need continuity and quality in the management of the defense system. Once again, at the very end, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal for a defence minister candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52437	I thank Mr. Djordj Milicevic, head of the SPS parliamentary group. Dear Members of the People, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the First Belgrade High School, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Grand Hall gallery. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, National MP Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52438	Thank you, Chairman. Dear members of the government, candidate for defence minister, Mr. Djordjevic, before I speak about the agenda point, I will take this opportunity, we are approaching March 8th, the day when we are fighting among other things for women's political rights, a better position of women, and I would like, in particular, to appeal today to young ladies at the gallery, to remember this day well, we may see some of them once in parliament. Thank you for being here today. I want to look back at today's discussion. I came really well in the mood and proud of today's candidate, in the mood for today's discussion, because today's candidate, his biography, what his work results say are something we can be proud of, not only of us from the SNS, but also of us who voted for this Serbian government. Working on the state secretary's position in the last four years, it has indeed been a strong, strong right hand to the defence minister, whether it was now incumbent Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, then Defence Minister since 2012 or later, Mr Nebojsa Rodic and later Mr Bratislav Gasic, who initially spoke in favour of this brief discussion today, that we could not hear a single ugly or bad word about Defence Minister Zoran Djordjevic's candidate. I listened very carefully, and I was thinking how the opposition MPs would, I guess, describe as a bad candidate of ours, and what happened was not honoring any intellectual, which is to spin the debate. Spinning means when you're not comfortable with the real state or the truth, you're trying to twist it, point it the other way, to get the viewers, listeners into error, and everything to buy for a while. I am personally disgusted, I suppose, by the Serbian intellectuals' discussion that we could hear from opposition MPs, and it is indeed beneath every level of academic honesty, some morality that you carry with you, as your degree of education progresses. That someone is playing, that's how they make crystal clear biography, and when it comes to education and later a professional career, and that someone is making fun of why professional work in the field of economy, especially finance is written on two sides, it's really something that you don't need to comment on. I believe that everyone, but everyone in Serbia would be happy to write on two sides of their work, concerning the level of one master, and the end of the doctoral dissertation in the area of economy is under way. When you talk about Zoran Djordjevic, you should say not only that for four years, the Secretary of State, who has been a serious state secretary for almost three years, has been doing the jobs of the only Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence and has often said that we have only one secretary of state, but that there should be five, because it was always before 2012, and he would often speak – no, I only do jobs for five State Secretarys, and I would not say that we really need five at this point. It's in the spirit of rationalization. We have tried to be as serious and committed and responsible as possible to the tasks and tasks entrusted to us and are precisely the results of Mr Zoran Djordjevic. Key words, when we talk about today's defence candidate, are security and defence, financial control and audit, financial and strategic planning. I don't know how much we could speak in such serious terms during a previous period, and that's why it's a shame for everything we've heard today in a negative context. We need to be polite and say what the fact is. That's what we have to bow down to. Political game, political marketing, that's something we can talk about. In addition to the state secretary's position, Zoran Djordjevic is also president of the Political Council for Gender Equality. It is particularly ugly that today opposition MPs mocked that position, such a serious government body, which has indeed produced positive results in the field of gender equality, especially what is our international obligation, which is the implementation of UN Resolution 1325, "women, peace, security" on the position of women in the security sector. Zoran Djordjevic is also in the position of the national head of arms. What is the highest percentage of his engagement in his current work at the Ministry of Defence is financial control. This is what has not been given enough attention in the previous period before 2012 and that is why I say it is a very important right hand of the defence minister. The concepts are often confused and when we talk about different candidates for the defence minister, whether or not they are able to perform that function. Remember that it is precisely defined which powers are the defence minister, which are the responsibilities of the General Staff, or the Serbian Army, and are often changed somewhere more than who is in command, and who is in charge of the civilian work, therefore, the civil administration of the Ministry of Defence, and that is very dangerous. So at this point, Zoran Djordjevic is indeed a candidate who can meet all of the defence ministers' obligations. I would like to mention that by coming to the post of Secretary of State and taking over for the most part the financial control of the Ministry of Defence, Mr. Djordjevic has imposed order on the VMA, above all at the Department of Military Health. At that time, shopping in military health was ad hoc, there were no planned purchases. Today we can talk about a percentage of 95%. So 95% is a realized military health procurement plan. This is a very important information that speaks of seriousness, transparency, reduction, a significant reduction in the degree of corruption that was recorded before 2012, according to Transparency International research, when we were in Group D plus, in the group of the extreme risk of corruption. We are now in Group C, a moderate risk of corruption, where we have 77 indicators, of which in 44 we have shown positive shifts and progress when it comes to the Serbian Army. Here, some more indicators. The 2014 budget was 99.4%. It is similar for 2015, which shows us that we are extremely serious, rationally involved in budget planning, and also later in spending. Just one more piece of information, that the sale of surplus arms and military equipment, the planning of public procurement, the acquisitions in the military otherwise achieved significant savings, these are 11m euros in savings in Vojsca, mainly in the field of energy, travel. There's still a lot of things we talked about in the previous period as a great success of the Ministry of Defense. This time, I turned to the financial sector, the economy, because that is what the candidates for Defence Minister Zoran Djordjevic are really doing. I would like to call today to vote for this candidate, for the Secretary of Defense, because his results guarantee it in any case, that he will continue to be serious and committed to dealing with the tasks entrusted to him, and all today's objections, that we have not done anything within the legal time limit really do not stand. The legal deadline has been set. Whether it's done in the first day or the last day of the legal period doesn't change a thing. The legal deadline is respected. Another very important thing. Whatever we do won't be good, you get that. We've heard a lot of comments in that direction. What is important is that no moment, no matter whether we waited two months, 15 days, two days, no moment the Ministry of Defense was blocked, stopped or any process in the Ministry of Defense slowed down in any way. The Department of Defense is a complex, complicated system, but a very stable system. As a state, we would be in great danger if such a serious system, a key pillar of the Republic of Serbia, depended on the appointment of one man. I think Serbia is a much, much more serious state with its solid, stable system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52439	Thank you. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52440	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Mr. Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS as a state-run party and a party that fully supports the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia will also support the proposal by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to elect Mr. Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister. Many parties who consider themselves to be serious, and today they are in opposition, and can freely say that they hoped the government would not propose a candidate for defence minister and that it would not fulfil its legal obligation. Of course, that did not happen, and since the government is responsible for both the law and the people, the proposal was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Then they hoped, after the government submitted the proposal for a new defence minister, although it was not an explicit legal and business obligation, that we would not choose a new minister and use it for cheap political points. Of course, that didn't happen either. Why were they hoping? They hoped because they knew that every appearance of government members led by you, Mr. First Prime Minister and Prime Minister Mr. Vukic and all ministers in the government, reduced their support in the electoral body, which is particularly sensitive today, the day before the disbanding of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because even their censorship is uncertain. But since this government is not afraid to go before MPs and citizens, today we are still considering a proposal to conduct a new defence minister's election. The government and the National Assembly are institutions of the highest authority, and they must be held accountable by people. It is today's session where we elect a defence minister, and this is before the parliamentary elections are called, that confirms the responsibility and seriousness of the people headed by the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's military and the defence ministry are a pillar of the security system and the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. At the moment of the migrant crisis, when the National Security Council assessed security challenges, risks and threats and its decision to put Serbia's military force in full alert in case of need to protect citizens, state and property from all security challenges coming out, we believe it is important that Serbia has a defence minister and that it is most acceptable to be someone from a defence system like Mr. Zoran Djordjevic. In addition to the migrant crisis, there are other security risks, and above all, the situation in our southern province of KIM, where we are at work throwing tear gas in parliament, riots on the streets, Molotov cocktails. Then terrorism. I'm not going to say that Serbia today is threatened by terrorism, but the situation that took place in November must keep us on guard in France at all times. Today in Serbia, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are the most trusted institutions among citizens, which was not the case before 2012, which I was already talking about in the National Assembly, and I will repeat today, because I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia must know that. A survey conducted by the European Security and Co-operation Organisation says the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army never respected less trust by citizens than during the period. So since there is a Ministry of Defence in Serbia, which as well as the Army traditionally had the highest reputation for citizens, it has been completely ruined and reduced to the level of an institution that citizens do not trust. So the Ministry of Defence did not trust as many as 67% of citizens during that period. In front of the Ministry of Defence during that period were the church, police, military, the MUP, education and health systems. Since 2012, the situation at the Ministry of Defence has improved considerably, as shown by later research, so today the Army is back in first place for citizens' trust. Not only that, but the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence with other state authorities has been improved, especially with the Ministry of Defense, which I can say from my own experience. As a former secretary of state in the MUP and as former head of the cabinet of interior ministers, I have been working together, i.e. trying to co-operate with the Ministry of Defence in the period 2008 to 2012, and I can confirm that the co-ordination of these two ministries, which in the nature of the work must co-operate, was almost not. I've been trying to list examples of non-cooperation between these two ministries, but I have nevertheless defined myself as talking about the co-operation of these two ministries. The co-operation of the two ministries was not in any way. The co-operation of the two ministries has only been established since 2012 when Mr Vukic comes to the head of the Ministry of Defence and continues with the arrival of Ministers Nebojsa Rodic and Bratislav Gasic. As one of the good examples of co-operation by these two ministries, I would point out the resolution of the transfer of assets and assets after the transfer of civil protection to the Ministry's Emergency Sector. After taking over the personnel, it waited for years for the Ministry of Defence's obligation to transfer assets and funds, which were necessary for the functioning of the Emergency Sector, to the MUP. It was realised only after 2012. Why am I pointing this out? Because it's a sector that saves people's lives, property, because it's an extremely risky job and because the state is obliged to provide these people with the best possible conditions and equipment. On the other hand, the MUP had an understanding for the Ministry of Defence, so that same year, the MUP gave the base stations to use the Ministry of Defence. Let me explain, these are hand radio stations, citizens known as motorolas, although that's the manufacturer's name. Then, personalisation of health and official legislation which was also carried out at the Ministry of Defence, etc. Many other actions and activities that I cannot talk about publicly have been implemented in common. I cited all this because it also contributed to the savings in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, and thus to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this period from 2012 to today, the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy has been implemented alongside the minister, which is understood, and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, whom we elect today as minister. As I have already said, the SPS will support this proposal, regardless of the announced parliamentary elections, because the defence ministry must have a man headed by a system that can be responsible in the coming period. As former Ministry of State Secretary of State, I had the opportunity to co-operate with Mr. Djordjevic and this co-operation was correct and effective and always in the interests of the state. As a National MP and a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, I can stress his respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's institution, the commitment to all issues related to Parliament's work and expertise in representing the Ministry of Defence. Finally, again to say that the SPS will support the government's proposal to elect Mr. Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52441	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52442	I don't have any objections to the procedure. I think she's respected, no matter how much the election is tomorrow, she'll be scheduled for the other day, held for 45 or a little more days. I think the procedure is respected and I don't have any objections. I won't talk about the candidate because I wouldn't have anything bad to say about the candidate, I don't have anything good, but it's bad for the candidate to choose now for this short period and that's probably loyalty, first of all, to the call he's working with, or the institution he's working with, and that's the Serbian Army. Of course, it doesn't occur to me to say anything bad about the Serbian Army. It is a respectable organisation that has its place in the constitutional and legal order of the country, which has its place in society and has no objections there. The army is doing their job. The army can't be guilty of anything. It's always what the military does wrongly to politicians, and that's what I wanted to talk about today, and I'm going to talk about it without the fact that the Prime Minister escaped, as usual, from the duel, but there's the first vice president...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52443	Mr. Zivkovic, it is a shame to speak in such a way in the great hall of the National Assembly. The prime minister apologized and we believe that the obligation he had to go to is very important and said he would return immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52444	You're wasting my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52445	It's not right what you're doing, Mr. Zivkovic, but it's your manners and your cowardice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52446	So you took 30 seconds from me. First, the prime minister can only apologize, and he apologized for one gymnastics term, but it doesn't matter. So, the call to a TV duel and any debate, it's been a getaway so far, and I'm not going back to it. What about the Army in the last few years? The military has been insulted, injured, humiliated several times by politics in this country. We have an example that the Serbian Army Chief of Staff has been appointed head of defence of the city of Sapca since the flood. What military school does that teach you about flood defenses? Where in Serbia's history is it that the generals, the chief of staff, have defended the city from floods? What wasn't sent to Obrenovac, if it was already a way to fight the accident, to save the Obrenovac? The second serious insult to the military was that last year's salary and daily allowance were cut in the military. The diaries are a reduction of ten times, maybe more than fifteen times, for people who do a very responsible job for the country's security in something that used to be called a land safety zone, I don't know what it's called right now. So, in southern Serbia. To them, the diaries from one decent amount have been reduced to a completely pointless number. The military's equipment, the statement that the Army didn't have for every soldier in one uniform, I don't want to talk about it, it's nonsense a couple of excellencies. I've never seen a naked soldier, nor a half-golder, nor that he went into what, but everyone always had uniforms, of course. We can talk about quality, we can talk about quality of accommodation, nutrition, all of it, but it's not a topic today. Finally, the greatest insult to the military and what, unfortunately, will be unwarrantedly remembered by the Army in these two, three years, that's the case of a helicopter. Of course the minister also has an obligation and the Prime Minister and everyone else to explore all the details of the accident through a committee formed, whether at the ministry, whether at the General Staff, I don't know. I have already said, and I will repeat, that the accident is due to the high indiscretion and boast of the then minister, the raising of helicopters without any need that has led to people getting hurt. Of course, if the Prime Minister were there, I'd ask him about it in more detail, and since there's the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, I'm asking him what's going on with the investigation of responsibility for the deaths of two officials in Libya? I know they died, whether they were from the bomb, whether they were from the terrorists. That's beyond a doubt. But who put them in a position where everyone was clear, and they too begged to be returned to a place where their safety was maximumly compromised, who is to blame? I don't want to blame anyone or the Prime Minister or the Vice-President, but the two of them have to give us an answer as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52447	Time. Thank you. Mr Dacic, Deputy Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister Mr Dacic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52448	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have heard from the Prime Minister himself because of his duties today, he has appointed me to be on this agenda for the government. I am pleased that Mr. Zivkovic said that as far as the procedure is fully respected, I would like to remind myself that the procedure was further complicated in previous government mandates because of the case where Dinkic was removed from the minister's post and then the category was introduced that he could not stay until the election was held but that his place was entrusted to someone else and that he has a deadline for choosing a new minister. So, I don't think Mr. Zivkovic's statement is true if the prime minister had escaped, I remember last time he was here and he was alone against all of you, I'd rather say that you escaped, you're nowhere to be found here. But it's so roughly, you know what it looks like, that's how you asked for elections, so when you got the election now is the problem that's being called elections. I've never seen anyone make a suicide move like you did before. You know that I was against the election, and you talked about the election every day and you begged God not to come to the election, and you know what existed on RTS when I was a little show, "You asked, look." Now you're going to see what that looks like and how much you're going to get in the election? (Maria Obradovic, from the place: Be careful what you want, it might come true for you. I ask the People's MPs not to receive it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52449	Go on, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52450	When it's a word. No, I don't appreciate these remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52451	I know you thought one thing now, and the other said it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52452	Yeah. We need to keep an eye on what we're saying right now because of these constant remarks. Please, when it comes to the military, the military has not only tasks to defend the country in terms of war, but, unfortunately, in areas where so-called natural disasters, natural disasters. When I was interior minister, a single Emergency Law was adopted, where all services were practically pulled out from three ministries, and they were joined by the MUP. It's an army, or the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior, and I think they're from agriculture, part of it's been pulled out when it comes to these inspection services. However, when such major disasters are at stake, it is doubtless that the military plays a very important role together with the police. So, not just with emergency sectors. So I don't see anything wrong with hiring an army. Also, I have to say that the army and the police, no matter what they think they did in time as the economic crisis caught on, remained less money to equip the army, and more and more was spent on wages. As you look at how much, if you remember the time you first conquered power 16 years ago, you said then that the M.O.P. had, I mean 100,000 cops, someone was talking, and when you came to power, you found that they weren't there. What I'm saying is that it's obvious that there is no need to mix political matters here from those involved in the defence and military systems. When it comes to responsibility for a helicopter crash, of course politically speaking, we can discuss from one or the other party's point of view, but it should be done by state authorities who need to give a final assessment of all this. After all, you have now mentioned the issue of the embassy, I am absolutely standing by the decision and I believe that Serbia should have open embassies, regardless of whether they are in the city, the capital or being moved somewhere, but should not close the embassies in friendly countries that had open embassies during Serbia's bombing. When it comes to Libya, the war in Libya began in February 2011. The embassy wasn't moved during that period, it stayed because there were our people. I have to tell you that even today, I got a notice yesterday that, for example, if I have enough time, I just want to say one thing. Remember, I have called many times to leave all of our citizens in Libya. Here's the information, seven of our citizens reported yesterday who came in a few days ago to work for the Mariborian "Technomontage". Since two weeks ago, two more of our citizens have been working at a restaurant on Tripoli Street, etc. So, three months ago there were 250 of our people, now there are over 300 of them. We can possibly discuss whether the embassy will be transferred, whether the staff will be in Tunisia or not. In August of this month, I sent a request to the BIA in Libya to tell our embassy urgently about all the circumstances and the measures to be taken. The one-hearted assessment of everyone who was there was that the danger was less than it was in 2011 and there was no need to close down the embassy. Whether it was a breach of procedure or not, it will be determined by the commission, but please know one thing, those who took them who killed them in the bombing bear the greatest responsibility for all of it. The rest will be examined and disciplined and, of course, if there is criminal legal responsibility by the prosecution. I'm sorry they didn't, you're probably gonna open this topic in other discussions, and I'm standing here to show you the papers and everything, I've always responded to every call from the Foreign Affairs Committee, I'm just asking you to have one thing in mind. All those people you're talking about in Libya were sent back in 2009 and some in 2006. If someone wanted to close the embassies, the embassy in Libya had a chance to do so while he was in power. Instead, those who led the Foreign Ministry gave the ambassador a blank mandate to leave Tripoli and go to Tunisia whenever he wanted. All this was done during the previous government of Mirko Cvetkovic, i.e. when Vuk Jeremic and Borko Stefanovic led this ministry. I'm not running away from that responsibility, I'm not running away from that responsibility, and I'm really in the mood to discuss it. You know I love parliament, I'm sorry it's not a topic today, I apologize to Mr. Djordjevic, but it certainly is a subject. We have embassies in Syria, we have embassies in Tunisia, we have embassies in Iraq. From Iraq every third day, we get information that it is located in a safe zone, and while you're talking about Tripoli, in it or in Damascus, there are 48 embassies in Damascus. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: It has nothing to do with us.) I don't know if it has anything to do with it or if it doesn't matter. You know what, our embassies in the world, are not tourism representations, embassies - these are state bodies that have to protect our national and state interests and our citizens who are there to help. I want to thank all those people who work in diplomacy just for working in those places that maybe no one else would accept. That's why their families know it well, and they know how long we are, that particular Sladjana Stankovic has been looking for a transfer years ago. I respected her wish, but you know what it is? The problem is the law too. As foreign minister, I can't get someone to go anywhere unless he wants to go. So there's a transfer committee at the Foreign Office, which determines who goes where. There's a competition coming up for every place. The sweet one was vesicle. Only someone from the Liaison Department could leave, or information technologies. In the last three years, none of her colleagues have reported to replace her. I found her a replacement, and in October I assigned a man to leave. Unfortunately, there's been a kidnapping, and I think our country has an obligation to this family, of course, to take care of her children, her husband is unemployed, etc. I'm not avoiding responsibility, I'm just saying what reality is. If we don't have an embassy, it's gonna be our fault we don't have an embassy, because that's not the first case. You know five of our men have been arrested. One was also arrested, Babic. We managed to free them somehow. What's the situation in Libya, I'll tell you one thing. When it came to UNESCO, I spoke with the government in Tobruk, the prime minister and foreign minister. They promised me they would be kept around Kosovo and UNESCO. The next day, since I heard the ambassador to UNESCO wouldn't listen, I called the foreign minister again, he promised – brother, tomorrow we are restrained. They voted for Kosovo because the ambassador listens to the parliament speaker from Tripoli. There is simply no single system of government in that country. That's why, on the other hand, there's no foreign embassy in Tobruk. That is why this is a very sensitive issue, and for reasons not only political relations, economic interests, but also the protection of our people, we must take care of everything. We didn't trade arms with Libya at this age, at least when I'm the minister. I didn't sign a single permit because the prime minister and I agreed that there was no military co-operation, there was Mr. Djordjevic, and they did. There was no co-operation with Libya in the area of arms trafficking or military industry. Whoever's responsible should be held accountable. Political responsibility. You know now there are elections, in the elections everyone will bear their responsibility for their actions or for their inaction. I want Mr. Djordjevic to have this mandate, at least that there are no such unpleasant situations as in recent years as floods or natural disasters. As for the wars, I'm sure there won't be any. As far as I'm concerned, I'm here, whatever you think I can answer these questions, I'm at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52453	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Yes, but according to the Rules of Procedure, someone has a right before you, but no problem, I'll give it to you first. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the site: I am mentioned three times explicitly. All right, I'll give it to you first.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52454	Thank you. I didn't get the right answers. There's no need for the Deputy Prime Minister to hide behind the Army. I didn't say that the Army had a bad share in defending against the floods, but that it was pointless for the Chief of Staff to be head of Defense in one city. Of course the Army has a role to play in the area of security and in its third mission. There's no doubt about it. As far as Libya is concerned, the vice president said the most, it is absolutely inadmissible to be, that if I am not mistaken, the only embassy open in Tripoli and that this is exactly the Serbian embassy without any adequate response to the pleas, and the lady who asked to be replaced. You can't force someone there, I agree, but you can't force anyone to keep them there, and that's what happened. That's what just happened. You could have called her, whether or not you found a replacement. If anyone gets sick, if there's any other need to come, he's coming. What's the problem extra? The additional problem with Libya is that today has not come to Serbia, as far as I am aware, our ambassador there. What's he doing there now? Why didn't he come to give his statement here in Belgrade to the department's competent authorities or some other authorities, I don't know who else is in charge? Why didn't that happen? He sent you and the Prime Minister a letter, which some considered threatening, warning. What's behind that? That's what the public needs to know. What's also important is why today's battle will rise and why today...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52455	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52456	... And why today, just one more sentence, does the president of the state transfer his powers in absentia to the future defence minister? Why? Where does the president travel?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52457	Thank you. Replica, head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: To whom? Yours, sir. He had a basis for replication before your replica, Mr. Zivkovic, but your manner is to make accusations and then you don't want to hear the answer. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52458	Someone here said the prime minister escaped. I heard about some running away. I've also heard of running away from military service, but I believe these escapes from military service will be better spoken by my dear colleague, Mr. Risticevic. As for the prime minister, with a polite and collegiate apology, he went to the discovery of the Monuments to Mr Borislav Pekic, who, together with 13 intellectuals in 1989, restored the work of the Democratic Party and I am not sure what he would at this time say about individuals who were either in the DS or who came out of the same DS, probably putting themselves on a much greater scale, giving themselves much more value than Mr Pekic's value in all forms of life. As for the defence of the city of Sapac, I had the honour of having as a physical person, that as an individual, as a volunteer, I would participate in the defence of Sapac along with many volunteers, along with hundreds of police officers, along with hundreds of soldiers and as an unmistakable role of the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army at that time, who set up the defense there because there were not all of these people, that there were no roles at that time because of the irresponsible, irresponsible, incompetent government in the town of Šapco, unserious authorities in the town of Šabac, I think that the town of Sabac would have had a much worse fate than the fate of Obrenovac. On the other hand, yes, also in Obrenovac, but also in other places that were threatened by floods by top officials, whether Serbia's MUP, whether the defence ministries, took over their own law and the Constitution, which is to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To those who do not understand such a thing, they should first read the Constitution and the law and then discuss it in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52459	I thank you, Mr. Granny. The prime minister has said an apology several times, so we think the cowardice is in the case of one who made such a claim. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica! ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52460	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Prime Minister has missed a lot. He missed such a clever discussion to hear. Right away, my esteemed colleague of the farmers has not seen a naked soldier. That's where we agree. Only if he saw through the keyhole. Only those who served the army could see it. They can see him in a uniform and in a shower. He didn't have that chance. For us farmers, at least in my generation, it was a shame not to serve an army. Here, Mr. Djordjevic knows. I think he served that somewhere 80 and some. I believe he's had some rank, us who have served such an army a little longer. But it's a special honor for a farmer to join the army, to make escorts, to call the family. They've been making e-mails for days. Isn't that right, Mr. Djordjevic, future minister? You served in Kumanov, as far as I know, were rewarded, etc. My fellow farmer didn't have that privilege and we farmers never ran away from the army. We never ran away from our army, only other armies fled before us. But this is the first case, and I believe that this discussion was such that the prime minister missed a lot, because he couldn't hear the discussion under every cell, right, under every censorship. My fellow farmer also had a dilemma in Hamletovska. Was it being or not being at Hamlet's? With my fellow farmer, lately when sessions are held, is the dilemma – to drink or not to drink? But if it is in the evening, then is it -- is it in the congregation to be or to drink to the glory? Here, colleagues say the dilemma is gone, and I believe, and for that I apologize for his performance. Also, I have to say, those who want to get him back to school, among the school buddies, I don't know who told him, but I know someone in the speech mentioned him, that's hard. How do you get back to a man's school, especially in high school, when he didn't go there? The school went to him. He didn't go to school. How do you get him back among schoolmates when he doesn't have schoolmates? Or they're out there somewhere in Macedonia, Kumanovo, etc. Rubicon's a small thing, when it comes to my fellow farmer, which is what we're going through here, but let's get on with it. First, I want to congratulate the future minister. I believe he as minister will serve the people. It's been going on for the last two or three years. When we choose ministers, we choose the servants of the people. They chose the bosses, and they acted like one. They didn't act like people's and state servants. They did not serve the state and the people, but served the state and the people for their own purposes, for the purpose of their friends. The situation we found wasn't tragic, it was super tragic. There was not enough black color to paint the situation in which our country was, both in the military and in all segments of society. The masters of transition, tycoons, friends of these parties of the former regimes have, by privatizing and graviting our congratulatory former soldiers, peasants and workers, turned into slaves without any rights, cleaning up their jobs, cleaning up their jobs. Today, those who led them to the edge of hunger, to poverty, are the Kobajagi concerned about their fate. The last military minister was reportedly relieved of sexism for an untasteful joke that came up with a conviction. The price for such a procedure as a minister who worked on Sundays and who, in an ugly way, joked with a lady, was the price for it. But speaking of sexism, this is their military minister. I don't know about the young lady if she's a minor, but I do know that this cohiba is 200 euros. I know he was having fun. So, as far as sexism is concerned, this is how they did their commanding ministerial function, but while they were in power. This is from the Justice Party. The girls are great-grandmothers, they're used for food. These are someone's daughters, who were previously cooled down so that they, in the bahanals worthy of a Caligula, could have as much fun as possible. We have more evidence. This is the dry-meat girl. No one's answered for this, no one's been replaced, no one's resigned. This girl with her eyes closed served as a black grapes coaster, and the next one with her eyes open for white grapes. In the end, this is how food was consumed – directly from the cooled girls who served as a food coaster. Today from that group, which was then exercised by the government and whose military minister apparently did not know what sexism, which was having fun in this way, came stories about sexism from that group of former regime parties. They protect women, but only when they're not in power. When they're in power, then women can also be cooled so that the food doesn't heat up, they can also serve as food mats. What about their other rulers? What do you say to the duchess? And what about the one who made the president of the Government of Vukic in Dubai and didn't see him wake up when he woke up to his city board president in the Maldives? I guess the fear of losing power. He didn't see a general invasion of Monden resorts, winter resorts. The real aggression was on the Maldives. What to say about him, Mr. Babic said about water skiing, the agriculture minister skied on the water. Let's see, the vice president of the former regime, vice president of the duchy, his government and the agriculture secretary, and this one's for agriculture, but this one didn't ski on water, this one skied on snow, and that's on artificial flight, plus 45 degrees went to Dubai. He could've told his dukely lordship that he was in Dubai, he didn't have to dream of him. I can tell you what it's like to ski on plus 45 in Dubai on artificial snow, in a big hall, where only the entrance is paid more than three average workers' salaries, but it says it smelled like a freon, so it was "bleak". She needed a party of the former regimes for such preparations to send Mr Jesic to the winter Olympics, perhaps bringing us the kind of medal he had. It's hard for our skier to have such conditions to fly that he can ski on artificial snow, especially in Dubai. Besides, he was a water sportsman. He liked water sports. At a time when Milorad Cavic had no pool to train, Mr Jesic had a closed pool and most likely prepared to beat Michael Phelps. Our sportsman, the medal winner, had nowhere to prepare, and Mr. Jesic, vice president of the duchy, had a closed pool. After a lot of apartments...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52461	Please, Mr. Risticevic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52462	I'm sorry this is very important for the country's defence, the minister needs to know what their ministers were doing and what they're still doing. When you go there, next to that camp in Kamenica, which is very important for safety where young people are trained, you have a house on Tatar Hill, you have an apartment in Vienna and everything with a salary of 1,000 euros. How much does that endanger people's safety? When someone who has been a student for 12 years and has no other business has thousands of squares of living space and a salary of 1,000 euros, when they have a closed pool, when they can go to Dubai to ski, Slovenia has no number, I ask what kind of behavior was of the duchy government, the party of the former regime how they respected these women, how they respected people in the country at all, how they respected the army that went without uniform, so they would ski, to fly, to have closed pools, to have dozens of apartments, houses, apartment in Vienna. Here, now he's opened the dairy. Maybe they'll be supplying an army. Put it somewhere. Goran Jesic opened the dairy. All that, here, now the milkman. Most likely, he took off the kajamak while he milked the people for 15 years, so cruelly and so powerfully that it was blood. War neutrality. Serbia is a military neutral country, but if they remained little longer, Serbia would be not militaryly neutral, but militaryly neutral. That's how much the army mattered to them. They have those who ask us to be military neutral, but on one side. Well, how can you be military neutral on any side? We are in such a situation, international relations are such, and the international community is, it says their leader, is like a climate. You can twist something, but you can't avoid it. Our mouths can't thunder, because our strength is still whispering, even louder and louder, but what we inherited was so that the army wouldn't exist if they stayed a little longer. We go west, especially me, there are other individual colleagues, but we look to the West and the military situation in the West with our eyes, and we look at Russia with our hearts. But that doesn't mean we should be on some side, because we're a military neutral country and this assembly has voted that we are military neutral. We need peace. Peace comes with an agreement, best before the war. Because the peace in the shells is a thing of pearls and we need that period. It's not losing who's falling, it's losing who's left to lie down. We don't have to have most countries as friends, but it's enough not to be enemies. Happy is he who has no enemies, and happier is he who is no one's enemy. We need to know that Napoleon, Mr. Future Minister, we both as politicians and as a state and as MPs must know, especially soldiers, when to take off the lion's skin and put on the fox skin. That's Napoleon's saying that's very true. The international situation is such, our strength is such that we will have to consider it very well, its saying and teaching. We need faith in the army. We need faith in a country that will give us the sense of re-energizing both the state and the military and the state and the army that we will be proud of, and the elections are an opportunity. In these elections, our goal was not early elections. We wanted our political opponents to come up with a common solution by exchange of views. On the arm they planted the leg. The election is inevitable. We're going to the election. It's an opportunity for citizens to choose their leaders. And I believe that the citizens will not choose a duke's authority, nor a bourgeois vincillator, nor many others from the parties of the former regime for the simple reason that one society, one group per leader, is recognized. I believe the citizens don't want...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52463	Mr. Risticevic, you must return to the topic, which is the choice of minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52464	Well, we're in the dark. That the citizens don't want to recognize us by the Duke's vincillator and by the Duke's authority and by the French vincillator. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no such thing as a gift for the future. We have to fight her, together with the citizens, again. I was talking about that, and they said that the current, future minister would take office. Look, the law doctor says someone's gonna sit down. He can sit in a chair, in a chair, but that's how they see the position. When they sit down until they sit down, and that is why I call on the citizens to strengthen the army, to choose again the minister whom we will choose today or someone else, that as their political leader said, that in the next elections, the punishment of shame and shame, and that is what I quote, which has ruled Serbia for 12 years, in Vojvodina still, for 16 years and in this way put three points. The point of misery, the point of robbery, the point of shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52465	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52466	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe the members of 106 and 107 have been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, during a speech from our colleague just now. Mr. Risticevic here for our special session on the proposal for a defence minister's election, brought the minister into contact with the area of agriculture. That's not true, because in the key words that we have received here as a description of the actions of Mr. candidate for Minister of Defense, there is no such word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52467	Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52468	I think it was appropriate for you to just warn the gentleman that it wasn't appropriate to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52469	Mr. Pavicevic, I gave you my word, because I expected you to try to justify your colleague, Mr. Zivkovic, who showed cowardice and fled during Mr. Risticevic's speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52470	This is now an additional violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52471	... and did exactly what Mr. Zivkovic mentioned, the cowardice and something else, that he had just done what he was saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52472	Answer the word, so we have a parliamentary dialogue. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52473	So I expected you to justify Mr. Zivkovic's cowardice, not to mention the key words and not to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you know very well that I warned Mr. Risticevic twice to return to the topic. Unfortunately, I see you have no excuse for Mr. Zivkovic's cowardice. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is a disrespect of the MPs of the people. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52474	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, Mr. Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am under the impression that whenever a prime minister is present at the National Assembly Hall, whenever he participates in the work of the National Assembly, the presence of former regime MPs is drastically reduced. They probably had some traumatic experiences in duels with the prime minister, so that's why. Suddenly they have better things to do, they're not in the Assembly, but they do know how to heroize in the hall of the assembly, in front of the models, in front of the pictures of the prime minister, etc. There was a hero here this morning who tried to address us according to the Rules of Procedure, though, so he disappeared more quickly from parliament, and he didn't even hear the prime minister's answer, but well, we're not going to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the key word that marks today's debate is today's session of the National Assembly. It is responsibility that led to the release of former Defence Minister Gasic, whom I personally believe to have been one of the better ministers of this government, because of a softly spoken word, because of a thoughtless word, although it is far less sin than some sins, than some members of the former regime’s party, or even some MPs in the National Assembly. The responsibility is also responsible for today's proposal to elect Mr Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister. As a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, I have been on several occasions able to get to know myself, but also to make sure of the ultimate commitment to the function performed by Mr. Djordjevic and the seriousness of doing that function. So, as we heard from the mandated SNS representative, Mrs. Marija Obradovic, Mr. Djordjevic served for four years as state secretary of the defence ministry. Since the age of four, he has been the only secretary of state for three years, if I am not mistaken, although five state secretaries of the ministry are prescribed and he says so enough. I think it's a good thing a man from the system comes to this function, I think it's a good thing because of the continuity, the continuation of the good results that the Ministry of Defense has had so far, and we've heard those results. We also heard about the savings of 1.3 billion dinars, or 11m euros, and we heard that a housing issue was resolved for 900 professional soldiers and military pensioners. We heard that 97 major international exercises were realized from 2012 to today. We also heard about donation contracts worth 6 million 195 thousand euros, we heard about progress in the field of fighting corruption, we heard all other arguments in favour of the thesis. The very fact that no one has tried to challenge the candidacy today, the biography of the proposed candidate, has found no single thing, that it resents Mr. Djordjevic's candidacy as defence minister, speaks sufficiently in favour of the fact that the prime minister has opted for the best possible candidate to perform his duties. I point out once again that the SNS strongly supports this proposal and I call on the day to vote to elect Mr. Djordjevic as defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52475	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52476	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as someone who served a military term and someone who was a reserve officer, I know very well the basic two principles that exist in the military, which is the body of elders and subordination, which is the basis of principles and a system of command. Such a proposal is completely legitimate and may not be timely, but it is due to the previous situation. There is absolutely no question about the procedure for the appointment of Mr. Djordjevic as a candidate for defence minister. However, what may be more symptomatic in the whole situation is that there is a persistent, irresponsible relationship with the Ministry of Defence, which is one of the key ministries and which, as previously noted by the debaters, is the backbone of preservation, not only of peace at our borders, but also of the country's emergency situation. The military as part of this country is a set of people who are selflessly willing to give their lives, to advocate that each citizen is protected in these unpleasant situations. So much earlier, it is surprising that in four years, four or three ministers are changed, and that we are now ultimately elected at the last moment by Mr. Djordjevic, and as the minister said, he has been elected, and has not been elected, the proposal is likely to be elected, because decisions are reportedly being made there, as Mr. Prime Minister said, and not here in the assembly. In this whole story, the innocent person is Mr. Djordjevic who, by his education, is a vocalist of various duties, as we have heard for four years, the Secretary of State is much more qualified to deserve such a situation. I believe that it should have been put in place before, because in education as an economist and in its time spent as an associate of all previous ministers, it certainly has valuable knowledge and this is not questionable. What's the problem with this whole situation, why we've come into this situation, since we've heard here that because of one word being spoken, it's God's turn for the minister and that's responsible. There have been many situations in which the previous minister has shown an inadequacy of the situation in which he was to react in different ways, and these are various affairs. One of them is the "helicopter" affair and out of respect for the heroes who died, doing this duty, and before that, saving thousands of lives, because I also originate from areas that have been flooded, where the Army has made an immense contribution to saving people, property and assistance. Out of respect for these people, it is necessary for the ministry and other ministries to make every effort to remove these suspicions and unjustly condemn people who have performed such a task. There's no question that they're heroes, the question is that they're trying to, because they're not there, put them in a position to blame for something. That's not good. It's a good thing we don't discuss at the night session, because I'm a permanent guest at night sessions, I'm taking part, because this one session, it's a good thing, it's appropriate to the level and importance that this ministry should have. What's not good is, I say once again, that the candidate for the minister be someone with such references, and that he's the ace of the sleeve, or the first reserve in 90 minutes. Mr. Djordjevic, we probably deserve a lot more, and that's the misunderstanding, and that's what makes us think that in this debate we might be more critical of, and we are more critical of the government, which doesn't show enough seriousness when it comes to defence. All of us citizens of Serbia, we want to live in a peaceful country, in a country where prosperity exists, but for this it is necessary for the government to lead a peaceful and peaceful policy and to realize once that we have no enemies in the environment and that any debate and shouting of weapons, in the sense that - if I do, I will do that to you; it is not heroism, nor is it some force that we are dissuading someone, because we have been aware and we have seen, we have, at least I, believe and all the other MPs, that this heroism has not led to anything good in this country. One of the reasons for the big economic crisis is that we knew what we didn't want, but we didn't know what we wanted. We believe that Serbia should be a safe and secure country and that it deserves leadership that will be able to lead such a wise policy both in terms of security and in terms of growing interstate relations that will not bring the country into an awkward situation at any moment. The Ministry of Defence, completely the Ministry is very important in this whole context because we believe that in the future citizens will be able to assess what is safer and safer for them and I look forward to the elections, which will show that someone else, which is Boris Tadic and the SDS, can provide security and security to the citizens, as he did in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52477	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52478	Dear Ministers, Mr. Becic, I think that an inappropriate speech from the previous speaker is because we are Mr. Gasic's discharge, and this is the first time that someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been replaced because of a spoken word. Once they could say millions of words, they could embezzle millions, but it was important that there was no responsibility, no political, no human, no other responsibility. For the first time, it happened that the vice president of the largest party was removed from the post of defence, and there was no anger, that there were no ugly words, and that all of us, of course, continued together, as we created the SNS in 2008, as in 2012, we change our country for the better, so we will do it in the future. When someone has nothing good to say about previous defence ministers, before the duty and obligation of our country's leadership takes over the SNS, then, of course, they will accuse Mr Gasic of anything and everything. Maybe because a bird died today, or maybe because it ripped someone's milk out of the stove, but why not talk about how the Serbian Army bought 35,865 sets of new uniforms at the time of Minister Gasic, 31. 445 pairs of military shoes, that they will have for the first time, now completes the contract to purchase 5,900 uniforms with Jumko, that it is worth 213 million dinars, that for the first time they will have next to the model of the M77 uniform in their set also have uniforms, i.e. summer pants? Why don't we talk about realising the housing of members of the Serbian Army, that 900 professional soldiers, or former soldiers, have been settled on their own, unlike when you led the Ministry of Defense, when unfortunately people had to jump with their families out the window? Why didn't you say that, as an example?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52479	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52480	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have prepared two remarks for our debate on the election of a member of the government and one, Minister Dacic, by my court cannon question for you. I think Mr. Djordjevic knows what he's thinking when you say the cannon question and he can see now what he's going to say. Two notes first. Note number one. The defence minister's candidate in the Government of our Republic, Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, according to the rules governing the course of this session, Mr. Djordjevic cannot participate in the debate, cannot say more about himself, so it is necessary, gentlemen, that we rely on the words of Mr. Vukic and Dacic and those written and those spoken. Mr. Djordjevic, I believe that whoever wrote this proposal of biography for you, in the name of the Government, has left an impression of the surface and of the indifference in the work. On these four pages of text, respected gentlemen, which we have received, in one place where one word is written in large fat letters says "The Faculty of Social and Science Policies". Gentlemen, for me it is an unforgivable failure when we discuss in the Assembly the choice of a member of the government, that in four pages of the text, Mr. Djordjevic, someone who has been involved in running you here, arguments for it, makes such a failure. When it comes to spoken words, Mr. Vukic gave his word today and his that you are a good candidate, and I have many reasons to doubt that given word. Now I'm going to tell you why? Because Mr. Vukic gave me his word here in the Assembly on April 7th that since then he will double his presence here on the last Thursday. From then on, Mr. Gjorgevic, so you know, Mr. Dacic, Mr. Wolf has never been here once. So he didn't double his presence and not double his presence, but he wasn't there once, and he gave the word and honored gentlemen, how can I treat the man who gave the word, didn't fulfill it, now gives a new word. Do I believe he'll fill it? I have great doubts. A second note, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr. Djordjevic, I believe it is important for you to hear this, if elected, Mr. Djordjevic will be the fourth defence minister in four years to see how many advances rule Serbia. First Mr. Vukic was Minister, then Mr. Rodic, then Mr. Gasic and now Mr. Djordjevic. So we have one minister of defense each year. For me, gentlemen, it is a sign that a group of people who spent 12 years in the opposition have unpreparedly welcomed the takeover of power. If I were an opposition for 12 years, I'd use those 12 years to prepare a program, to shape ideas, to prepare people, and then with those people, respected gentlemen, Mr. Dacic, I work effectively in one government. Give me an example of a European country where we have such frantic changes of ministers, respected gentlemen, such as the Minister of Defence. Let's see how in Germany, which Mr Dacic is invited to, precisely, Prime Minister Mr Vukic, whether the defence ministers change there every year, so that Mr Djordjevic can now be expected to be minister by next year, because according to this practice introduced by this government, ministers change once a year. For me, it is not good, and it points to the absence of stability, gentlemen, the absence of the value that is most important to us today in our Republic, Mr. Djordjevic. Here is a cannon question for Mr Dacic, members of the government and Mr Dacic and Vukic often use one word in their performances – the modernisation of our society and our country. Then, Mr. Dacic, we have an invitation to the words of Webber, Librica, their ideas must be very well known to you, Roosevelt, and then, gentlemen, what do I notice? I notice that in action we have a deviation from what is declared, Mr. Dacic, in words. I ask you, if modernization of our army, our society and our state is a focus, why, for these four years from 2012, Mr Dacic, by 2016, on behalf of this government, all bridges with individuals and associations in our Republic, which are consistent advocates of modernization of our country, who are constantly struggling with it and at work, Mr Dacic, instead of modernization, we have one difficult brutalization of society. I ask you, why aren't you doing what's being declared? Why do we have the brutalization of our society instead of the modernization that I am for? Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52481	Time. Mr. Pavicevic, the least I expected of you is not to tell the truth. Mr. Zivovic's cowardice and to avoid the truth, we're used to it, but I didn't expect you to do it, since we've all witnessed that Prime Minister Vukic has been in this great National Assembly Hall many times in a short time, even today Mr. Vukic was in the large National Assembly Hall, so he was when he was the Law on "Belgrade on Water", so I don't count how many times Mr. Vukic was recently in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. But the problem with you is that you're at that moment until he's brave enough to say anything, and when he comes, you freeze out of fear, and you simply don't even realize that the Prime Minister is in the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Thank you. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52482	I don't want to answer these cannon questions, because I'm not an expert on chess, like the Prime Minister, so I don't know what kind of opening and ending you'd apply. But here I would like to commend Mr Pavicevic. He is the best in the entire parliament and reads all the documents carefully. I haven't noticed anyone who pays so much attention to printing and spelling mistakes. So, since you've talked about it, about 12 years of opposition or not knowing how much, I advise you to raise your hands to it, because you're not going to enter parliament now anyway. Here, I will personally see you as editor and editor, all of what we do in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52483	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52484	Dear colleagues and colleagues, unlike my predecessors, I will not have a word of criticism or a word of praise for the minister's candidate. I will judge his work, if I get a chance, only at the end of his term, or when I see what a man will do. On the other hand, I can't say I don't know a man. I know him and I believe that I know him well enough, and I think it would be incorrect to praise him now about something that is related to party work or to our private association. But I want to tell Zoran Djordjevic that he should be proud today. We are all proud in Serbia that he is a candidate today, and in some ways we envy him, which is normal, because everyone I believe has a desire for one day to be at the head of our army, given that it is a tradition that is very, very respected in Serbia. As of today, Zoran, you are entering the ranks of the greats and must justify it. You will be among the people who once led our armies, such as Mladen Milovanovic, Toma Vukic Perišić, Milivoje Petrovic Blaznavac, Ilija Hadji-Milutinović Garasanin, Radomir Putnik, Stepa Stepanovic, Nikola Pasic, and what can I say, and Aleksandar Vukic, and Draža Mihajlović, here is my colleague, correcting me. There's a lot of them, I couldn't count it all. Alexander Vukic will be there to control you and it will be your best help, but also the most difficult commitment you must respect. Today, some of your colleagues have had objections to part of your education biography, to the lack of a particular letter, etc. Don't mind that. We're Serbs like that. We've got to find a mistake somewhere. But what I want to tell you, a few things I've been remembered here, were mentioned by VMA, one of our most significant institutions. I hope and believe that you will use the place where you will find yourself to restore the reputation of the institution as it had and to really be the best in this part of the world or to be the best, after all, in Europe, because it deserves it. On the other hand, as someone who has spent his entire life in education, I expect you to make a great effort to restore the level of educational institutions in the military and in health care, because through your work you can do it and it will be one of the segments of your work. That job won't be easy. You have many, many obligations in this ministry, but I believe you will have the strength and will persist in that part of the work, because we must always remember and know that our education and health care are two pillars on which every society rests, namely the Army. There were a couple of these remarks here today. One of the remarks was from colleague Maja Gojkovic, I'm very sorry she's not here, that some of the things she thought were wrong, she learned from her colleague, Komic. I wanted to give her advice, and you learn from everyone, that's not a problem, but you learn the best and the most positive things and don't ever call for anything that wasn't good. Try to be the best of the best, because that's the only way you're gonna get what we're running for today. Thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52485	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52486	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't heard any of my colleagues from the former regime any significant objections about the work of the Ministry as a state authority, or any major objections about the candidate for minister. I'm surprised that colleagues who spoke on these issues from the former regime don't know that by 2012, the Serbian Army wasn't quite ready for any challenges. The Prime Minister only said one little detail. I can tell you that the Serbian Army has been exposed to one great carelessness. It was important that someone represented the minister, that he had one significant function in the state, and that he completely neglected one defence system. The most elite part of the Serbian Army is the Air Force. Do fellow MPs from the former regime know that apart from the boots, our air force didn't even have tires on planes, that for the Aeromitnig that was held in 2010, that the military-technical institute extended tire resources so that the airing could be maintained? It wasn't a problem to sew flying vans, but not for pilots, but for those who were supposed to run that ministry. Serbia's army in general in the Serbian people as an institution is deeply rooted, an institution that belongs to all, to all Serbian citizens. In that period, it was forgotten. Now that we have significant shifts in modernising our army, there are some questions that are literally nothing to do with the Ministry or the Army or what the ministers are doing. Serbia comes first, most importantly to us, a military neutral country. We are proud that the Serbian Parliament has brought one such declaration. It was brought here, so we are, the Serbian Parliament has declared itself a military-neutral state. That's what we're proud of. Those who are very bad at talking about this institution today as if they forgot that Serbia is a very small country, by the number of inhabitants, a few countries, and that it is very difficult for us as a country to maintain this military neutrality with a collapsed defence system. The merit of all ministers from 2012 to today is that by modernising the Serbian Army, they made conditions for Serbia to see itself as a military neutral state in the future. It's also a job for a new candidate for the minister of which the National Assembly is due to plead, I believe, in an hour or two. In his biography, I see two things that, as an MP, choose me to give him my support. The first is that he finished economic school, the second is that he has great defence skills in his later education, because the minister's job is not to lead an army, the army is run by the one who's trained for it all his life. The minister's job is to create such conditions, which he would lead in the ministry, the ministry's policy, that those in charge directly of defending the country have both resources and opportunities to do so. If we are constantly making an affair, it is not the problem of the Minister, the Minister of Defence and any Minister of the National Assembly that can easily resolve, one other question is raised, and what about the institution, because of every incident, if we are making an affair, we are destroying the institution, in this case the Serbian Army, and those who decide to make each incident an affair have to be aware of it. Various affairs have been mentioned here. We all forget that it is the National Assembly that needs to safeguard the constitutionality of the Republic of Serbia, and here some of my colleagues from the former regime literally step on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, literally. They expect the minister to investigate the incidents. That's what committees should do, when the commissions are done, they should do the prosecution and plead. They expect the National Assembly, either the prime minister, or the government to rule, and that's the job of the courts. In another period, I am absolutely sure, we are also talking about elections, elections are not yet called, I think the citizens of Serbia will know who they will trust to lead the state, whether those who have brought our military and our defences to be inefficient and that there is no or will give trust to those who work exclusively in the interests of the state, regardless of their personal ambitions, personal demands or personal demands. I am absolutely sure that the citizens of Serbia will know that they will decide, as I know who I will vote for and whose proposal in the day to vote on this agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52487	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go, Mr. Tonchchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52488	Dear President-in-Office, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Honored Minister Ilic, Honored Mr Djordjevic, fellow MPs, today we are discussing the election of a new defence minister who will be in the post within the next three months, and most likely in the next term. As a house must not be without a host, nor a system such as the defense system shall not be a day without a minister. The Socialist Party of Serbia is pleased with the work done by Bratislava Gasic as defence minister and he has had our support here in the Assembly all along, as well as in the Serbian government. I believe that during this transitional period Mr. Zoran Djordjevic's election, he is a good minister, because he comes into office from the defence system and can respond to all challenges and tasks. Since I come as an MP who does not understand the defence system, everything I have learned about the defence system, I have served for a year, or in the JNA army, in the second republic, Slovenia, and that is the only thing I have learned about the system, but as you come from that system, Mr. Djordjevic, I think you will be leading this portfolio well, and since the prime minister has had confidence in you, I have no doubt about it, and that is why I will turn my discussion in that direction, because I am an MP who comes from the poorest part of this country, that is south of Serbia. If we look at statistics, the south of Serbia has always given the most fighters in all the national liberation wars. When to defend the state, to build, work actions, then it is south of Serbia, but when peacetime comes and when the budget is divided, or cake, south of Serbia is forgotten. That is why I believe, Mr. Djordjevic, as future minister, and since a new government will be formed, that it should pay a little more attention to the undeveloped south of Serbia. I would like to take this opportunity and ask Mr. Djordjevic to get more involved in the fact that finally the members of the Serbian Army return to the abandoned "Vasina" barracks in Surdulica. It is one of the most beautiful military facilities in Serbia, which was renovated in 2008, after NATO bombs. For the army of Serbia, for the state, as well as for the undeveloped municipality of Surdulics, it is a great shame that the barracks remain abandoned and such a beautiful facility is destroyed. I personally believed in 2008 that there was a will to return the army to Surdulica, when tens of millions of dinars from the budget were invested in rebuilding the barracks. Serbia's government has done nothing since 2008, not to mention writing a letter to the then Minister of Defence, Mr Sutanovac, not to remove built-in tanks, built-in boilers and stop them from being transferred to the South military base, known as Cepotina. I failed as president of the Surdulic municipality to stop it, although I was then, and today I claim that such a decision was harmful to the object itself, but also to the energy stability of Surdulica. To be clear, the state invested a lot of money to build a nice energy facility that could warm up the entire Surdulica municipality. However, they removed the boilers, destroyed the facility, removed the tanks, and transferred them to the South Military Base. I, as the president of the municipality then asked the Surdulica municipality, although not developed, to buy new boilers, to buy new tanks, to install them into the military base, and to keep this boiler house warm for the Surdulic municipality, but I did not come across the understanding and expect, as future minister, that you would have more hearing for undeveloped municipalities and for these things that are happening. That is why I believe that in the next government you will make an effort to return to Surdulica, because there is a place to return and we as the municipal government will take all the activities necessary to support the realisation of such a job. I say once again, you have the full support of us and the Socialists from southern Serbia, but come out and meet us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52489	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52490	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Ilic, Mr. Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an important question on the agenda, which is the choice of a new defence minister. We should certainly conclude this, regardless of the fact that elections will be called in a few days, but in fact by not electing a defence minister, we would have a state of interregne in this area, when the new power is not, or the current authority has not legalized itself in that area, or in the defence portfolio. That would mean government or powerlessness. So, it can't be in one cabinet that's part of the government that remains an important personnel gap, especially in terms of potential security risks. There must be one continuity, and the government must rule, every resolution must rule in full capacity legitimately and completely. That's why there are no choirs and discussions on the different interpretation of this issue. It is a real opportunity to point to the importance and tradition of our army in the context of the election of the defence minister, because since the oldest time in Serbia, the Army has had great importance, always enjoyed support and great reputation, it has been a great honor to be a soldier in Serbia or Yugoslavia. The soldier was sent to the army in joy and with a song, in great joy. The army was a big life school, through it, its members matured, raised themselves, and came out of it as better people. Somehow, everyone who served the army felt much more important, stronger, more invited, and could face life’s problems much better. On the other hand, I would say that it has been before, and even today, the Serbian Army is enjoying a really big citizens' trust. It's one of the most valued institutions, so to speak. The army has always been a guarantee of peace and freedom. Serving the Army was to serve the country and serve the most sacred goal, which is to defend peace and freedom, which is to assume the bright future of all our citizens, our youth and the future of Serbia. The roots of our army are wolfed from ancient times, let me say from the time of Nemanjec, and then through the uprising, in the first and second Serbian uprisings in the 19th century. The great glory and sacrifice was our army in the Balkan wars and in World War I until 1918. Our army in World War II was on the side of anti-fascism, and in the postwar time "Tito's Army" was an example of a complete battleover and an army that was really out of line and it was an honor for me to serve "Tito's Army" at the time. I would say secondly that it was a people's army and that's why it was called the Yugoslav People's Army. Today, Serbia faces constant security challenges and risks as part of what is happening, as well as in the framework of the migrant crisis. The army, fortunately today, enjoys the great trust of the citizens. Its reputation has gone up in the coming line in the last four years, particularly significant, and this reputation has also been increased by the fact that members of the better sex have become members of the Serbian Army. I'm glad our young men and girls are enrolling in military high school, military academy, being a soldier is a very attractive goal and being a senior officer and an officer is a prestigious profession. Our soldiers enjoy great reputation in international peace missions, and they represent their own ambassadors for Serbia's benefit. It is also important to mention the military industry, i.e. a dedicated industry that contributes to the economic and economic recovery of our country. So, a lot of things could be shown positively, but I would also say something to you, Mr. Djordjevic, which is that I have to say that a military apparatus that deals with various issues often sees some of the problems in property relations in an inadequate way. The example works, the Serbian Army House, formerly Dom JNA in Petrovac at Mlava, was granted 50 and some years, and it was owned by the Association of crafts and municipalities of Petrovac at Mlava and was given to use and use the Army until as long as the need to use it stands. It is no longer used for nearly 20 years and today would be almost a ruin in which only snakes would be the inhabitants of such a ruin, fortunately our municipality had absolutely maintained such an object and used it as a House of Culture. This is what I'm saying that I expect it to be seen in another context and taken care of. In the end, I want to say that the Army is a great inspiration for what is the education of our youth and it has been a pleasure and a being and a future to watch "the Military Academy", and it is indeed one series that shows all the best values in contrast to where the various primitives are shown and where we are fortunate to cultivate what is good in our country, as we show the value of the army. Our parliamentary group will certainly vote for your election, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52491	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pick up the Secretary of Defense as soon as possible and bring in acts from the agenda of the session. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52492	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister with government associates, MPs, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we will elect a new military minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. All SNS MPs will absolutely support the proposal that the Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, gave us today a detailed explanation and I hope that no one in this room will vote differently, because a system like the Army, one of the pillars of the state must exist, must work and must do what is prescribed by the Constitution and the law. I'm glad it's about the secretary of state that's now being proposed to the minister. The former secretary of state was a deputy minister, which means his right hand, was absolutely familiar with all the segments of the ministry and apparently that Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, someone who had been in the ministry for four years, was someone who was familiar with all the details and what was done in the previous period, as well as what was done for these four years from 2012 to 2014. Only the public of Serbia would remind me of two things. Given that I come as a national envoy from the city of Vranj, I would like to point out what the Ministry of Military Affairs has done since 2012 for the city of Vranje. In September 2012, exactly on September 7th, I called on the then Minister of Military, Mr. Alexander Vukic, to give him the idea that the land belonging to the city of Vranje we want to give the land belonging to the Serbian Army to be taken over, to take over the town of Vranje and to compensate with apartments for military faces. We responded immediately, a commission was created, and before the solution was struck, a reaction had already arrived from the Ministry of Military Affairs, consent, and we signed a land exchange agreement during that year. This land was transferred to the property of the city of Vranj, and the town of Vranje committed itself to building apartments for military faces, which was done. The Bunusevic industrial zone, the land is never built, would never be built and would not be there today, would be the Geoks factory, which employs 1,250 people. We opened that factory a month ago, and I am also very proud as a National MP to resuscitate the city of Vranje in a commercial sense. Also, the high scale is in front of you, Mr. Djordjevic, because the "JUMKO" factory, which is the trademark of the city of Vranja, in 2014, welcomed the elections of the republic, then extraordinary, by being on strike, which stopped the work, what the workers were going out on the highway, blocked the streets, traffic. There were desperate scenes. After the election, we paid great attention to the election campaign. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic promised to do everything on his part to make "JUMKO" work. The company is now working, 1,500 employees, a nearly-signed 230-million-dollar contract to make uniforms for Serbia's Army. That's what the Prime Minister was just talking about. So, Mr. Djordjevic, you had Minister of Military Alexander Vukic, you had Minister of Military Bratislav Gasic, who, because of one unnecessary statement, lost that function, but we showed that we appreciate the value of everything he did and I thank him on behalf of the citizens of Vranja, because if it hadn't been for Mr. Bratislav Gasic as military minister, "JUMKO" would not have worked today, "JUMKO" would not have produced today, "JUMKO" would not be in office, and at this moment there are 1,500 citizens of Vranja, people who are now receiving wages, carrying their children, eating and it's a much better situation than it was. Therefore, the Ministry of Military Affairs has so much in debt to the city of Vranje. Three thousand jobs have been achieved there and I ask that what has been done so far be of course preserved and that you, on your part, make it continue with that trend. One more thing we've heard from the opposition today, you're not often here so you don't listen to these moanings, you don't listen to that moaning, so you turn around and watch, and you think that now these walls are going to collapse when you hear someone from the opposition, but they're going to crash their walls on April 24th at the elections, they're going to be clear, they're going to watch a lot of us on TV alone, but what's important and what I wanted to underline -- Serbia didn't apply to join NATO, and as far as I know, my entire parliamentary group, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, explains to the public that we didn't submit, which means we won't enter NATO, because no one is calling us there. It is fully declassified that certain political forces, certain political groups, want to divide Serbia on the subject "No to NATO, we are against NATO". This is completely nonsense, it should be dedicated to new investments, new jobs, to open factories like "Geoks", to continue production in "JUMKO", to continue production in "Simp". Every city has these giants that are in the seal, which are silent, waiting for someone's moment, waiting for someone's eyes. Obviously, you and FAP will also have certain ideas that I welcome on my part. For the sake of your knowledge that from today on, we will all vote with a call, of course in front of this parliamentary group, we will give you a vote, I congratulate you in advance, and I know that you will be a four-month minister until the next constitution of the government, and that even after the constitution of the next government, you will be minister of military. I congratulate you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52493	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52494	I thank the chairman. The Honorable First Deputy Prime Minister of the RS, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Djordjevic, the head of the SPS parliamentary group has already announced the position of the SPS parliamentary group when it comes to the proposal we are discussing today. I will address the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia directly in the discussion, given that he has the legitimacy of the motion, and of course I will take into account in my discussion everything that relates to the election and support of the proposal for a minister and that of the new defence minister. In fact, we have been facing a number of security risks lately and these security risks are being addressed by the RS government to a higher quality. Today's act of debate on the proposal to elect a military minister is another proof of the RS government's responsibility and consistency in implementing the declared objectives. It is no doubt that one of the most significant goals is to increase the capacity of the RS Army, to increase what involves the potential of our armed forces to avoid all security risks. Unfortunately, these security risks are very much today, starting from our neighbourhood, starting with the territory of Kosovo with whom, in any case, in the light of the day-to-day turbulence, given the circumstances that follow their legislative process, given the circumstances that follow the situation that is linked to the fight between opposition and position, given the circumstances of regional character, especially the circumstances relating to occurrences or emerging forms of terrorism, then it is quite logical that the RS government responds to all these risks unequivocally clear, which is that the authorities also manage, command cadre, namely, and what is linked to the Ministry of the Army must be at the highest possible level and quality and quantity. In any case, one logical question is raised here – can the Serbian Army at all function unless all resources are involved in this operation? Of course he can't. In this direction and the Ministry of the Army, which must make its contribution, gives it immeasurably, now experiences what means full potential, and the full potential will have the moment when, hopefully, immediately after this debate, all the MPs defined for the fight, for the interests of the RS, will support the proposal on which the debate is being held today and the debate is still under way. What is very important to point out is the fact that the Army has always been with the citizens and in peacetime conditions. Here were numerous criticisms addressed today to the prime minister, then the first vice-president of the RS government. That these criticisms had at least a little groundwork, a fact and any other, and then let's consider them. This is how these criticisms were at the level of the floscule, covered by a cloak of hypocrisis. It is, in fact, that an artificial dilemma began to appear first about whether Serbia was wrong to sign, or to verify that it was in this high house, an agreement that implies certain standards that relate to NATO's armed forces. I also have to remind myself from a legal point of view, such an agreement today has the power of law. Therefore, the legitimate path of the Republic of Serbia has experienced what needs to be experienced, but in no case has it violated the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. It remained the same and the government of the Republic of Serbia remained defined towards that military neutrality, which certainly deserves great support. What has been tried to do, to make one kind of division among the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that one is reportedly one block, the other one for another block, one with sympathy for the East or Russia, and the other with sympathy for the West or NATO, in any case, is one totally artificial or twisted dimension of thought. By signing the agreement, the Republic of Serbia has not bowed to anyone. The Republic of Serbia remained militaryly neutral and will remain so. The Republic of Serbia has its goals, thanks to its military neutrality, to remain a political dominant in the Balkan territory. What is what is contained in the agreement? Well, that's what's usually contained in international documents. The agreement, a reminder for its sake, did not sign either the government or the previous one, but signed by the government that was the current government of the Republic of Serbia in 2006. Nothing new has been contained in the current agreement compared to the then signed agreement. Issues and certain benefits allegedly received by members of the NATO Armed Forces are being raised. The reminders are, it is not about any benefits, it is not about any specific immunity, it is not about anything that would in any way lead the Republic of Serbia to the situation of any harmful consequences, the cause of certain incidents or any other harmful. On the contrary, everything that involves the legal framework and legislation, that other military missions also have the possibility of passing through foreign territories, the territory of countries not only which are members of the European Community or NATO members, but also other countries have completely identical regulations and normatives when it comes to what is defined by the agreement that this Assembly has confirmed and thus legalised. After all, what relates to the attempt to create an animosity towards the government of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the agreement is primarily politics, is something that could be undermined by political marketing, especially in a pre-election campaign or election campaign, with the aim of discrediting the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course it's a failed attempt, and it's going to stay on, it's going to be a failed attempt. What I would like to point out, given that everyone has a little affirmation of the environments from which they come, I am obliged to point out that because of the citizens of Užica, the first Deputy Prime Minister, which is well known to you and how well you know it, I also point out that the Army of the Republic of Serbia has responded in peacetime conditions. The moment Užice and the entire Zlatibor district experienced, and first of all, the citizens of Užica experienced an unremembered ecological disaster, when there was the pollution of the largest water supplying water to several hundred thousand citizens, when they threatened significantly greater and far more harmful consequences for the citizens of that part of Serbia, the Republika Srpska Army came to their aid. There were criticisms at the expense of the Chief of Staff, criticisms were heard at the expense of the Ministry, the army. I must say that at precisely those times, when it was most difficult for the citizens of Užica, at the signal of the management of the town of Užica, the military of the Republic of Serbia, came to the aid, provided water supplies, and thus allowed the citizens to live normal lives. That's what the Serbian Army's potential means. That's what the Serbian Army is creding as someone without whom it can't be, or could ever be. It is particularly good that according to the Serbian Army, an industrial resource has been channelled in the right way, which is a dedicated production at the First Partizan factory in Uzic, which is stimulated and affirmed even more thanks to successful management. I hope you, as minister of the future, Mr. Djordjevic, will further stimulate you. Due to all that I have pointed out, I will repeat the position of the head of the parliamentary group, that the SPS parliamentary group will unreservedly support this proposal proposed by the government and will vote on the new military minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52495	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Your MP group no longer has time to discuss it, so I'm sorry Mr. George Cabarkapa won't have time to discuss it. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djordjevic, candidate for defence minister, respected fellow MPs, of course the left hand of Serbia cannot support your choice. We believe and have heard a lot of things that confirm one long-time truth, that this power, when it cannot deliver any result, and it cannot, then it deals with technical matters and maintaining a system that does not produce any results. You'll be minister for a few months. You'll be Minister in technical capacity in a few days. I think it's a good thing that a man has been selected from the defence system for many years, for Serbian citizens very many years since you've been in power in that system, of course, in our opinion you shouldn't have been in the Ministry of Defense, but now it's a completely different and sad story. What's for sure is that you take over, though briefly, one resort in which, as you know very well, there are a number of problems. First, you are taking over the resources and management of the vast national defense system in which members of the military and employees of the Ministry of Defence today face reduced salaries and reduced diaries. Their material position is extremely difficult. You're taking over a system where there's no dialogue with a representative emerging union and, as you know very well, it happens. Although previous Minister Gasic promised it, my question that you cannot, unfortunately, answer today, but perhaps in the coming days, will you – when you intend to sit down with these people, discuss and resolve both their status and their demands? I find their demands more than justifiable. When, how and in what way will you solve the problem of VMA and military health that has been developed, suppressed, crushed completely by your authority's incompetence, not to deny that the problem has been in the past? When and how will members of the military and employees of the Department of Defense have primate in VMA treatment? How are you going to solve the problem on VMA, that they don't have any aspirin today, no wounded, no equipment, no gauze, no consumable material, and patients and doctors screw themselves up and buy themselves? How will you resolve the issue of professional duty at VMA? How are you going to solve the issues concerning the fact that the opposite of the law has not been met by the resolution of the union's representative problem? Are you conducting a policy from your party's White Paper, which plans to shut down VMA in Serbia in section on healthcare at point 14. How are you going to solve the problem that VMA military security has one, so to speak, suppressed treatment and cannot be treated like other citizens? What are you going to do to improve the situation in military health, in what time and how are you going to solve problems that you can't solve, and you've changed three managements, three ministers and you haven't done anything in four years? I don't want to talk about your qualifications, because I think the citizens already know enough about it, there's enough public talk about it. So you're the picture and the opportunity of the man who suggested you, and that's Alexander Wolfich. Alexander Vukic knows best why he suggested you. It is very interesting that you have been leading the issue of finance and the question of money in the Ministry of Defence, and there is a convenient opportunity for me to ask you a few very specific questions from that segment. Is it true that all the public procurements carried out in the military and that have the term "super-confident", therefore, citizens and the public cannot hear what is going on, are very, very disputable, at large, and it is reasonable to suspect that someone in the defence system, Mr. Djordjevic, what would you have to know, is mass-stealing from the citizens of Serbia? Let's say, is it true that you're sending combat armored vehicles to a private company in Temerin, and at the same time, for a few million dinars, you have a cheaper offer in Chačka, otherwise at the State Remont Institute? It is only one of your contributions and a proposal of what your party has managed to do in the defense system for a record short term. Not to mention the other difficult and unresolved situations that my predecessors have mentioned and the affairs that have not been solved. You're taking over a system, though, I hope, on a very short deadline, which is very dissatisfied, which has got new uniforms, but these uniforms have been obtained we don't know how, paid we don't know how, obtained from these people from which they were obtained we don't know how. So, a bunch of questions that, unfortunately, Serbian citizens don't have an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52497	Time. Thank you. Unfortunately, it is very brave for Mr Stefanovic to insult a man who cannot respond. But that's all you know and we didn't expect any different. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52498	With all due respect, Mr. Becic, you have now violated the Rules of Procedure in item 106 and 107 because you have used the position of the chairman to comment on my statement, which has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, or on the course of the debate, or on the person who cannot respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52499	I thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. I'm just saying it's very brave, that now as a National MP, you're insulting the candidate for the Secretary of Defense, even though you're aware that he can't answer your insinuations, insults, and what you said, which is not in line with morals, that you as a MP should be telling the truth. But, like I said, it's your manners to do it very bravely when it can't be answered. Here you go, Mr. Granny. I apologize, Mr. Ivica Dacic, the Deputy Prime Minister has the word before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52500	First of all, I think that public procurement, at least as it is in all the other ministries, is that they are no longer secretive things, that they are very easily verifiable categories. After all, it was also on the agenda of the Public Procurement Act, and on the other hand, it is not possible for all of this to be made public. When it comes to classified purchases, or purchases that are confidential, it applies, you know it well, Mr Stefanovic, because it was also in your time, that it was not only about secrecy, but also about the shortened procedure, so that some things could end in time. I know at the police station, when I was Minister of the Interior, that six years of supplying jackets, because everyone complained after every public tender was such an obstruction that you could never finish all that. So in this sense, I don't want to give any grades and refuse any criticism in advance. But I think all these things that you've been talking about are very easily verifiable and I'm sorry that Mr. Djordjevic, who deals with it, is unable to answer now, because the Rules of Procedure won't allow it, but I'm sure he'll do it as soon as this session is over, or as soon as he's elected minister. I've never heard of anyone thinking about shutting down the Military Academy. I don't even know where you got that idea. As far as I know, there's even talk of one reinforcement. It's always said that she's one of our best health institutions. Of course, the health insurance of military insurance is one of the most important issues and, as you know, it is not a new topic, this topic has been present for many years, and for many years it has been discussed and in some ways it has been held within the Health Insurance Fund, which will be treated by insurance companies. What's for sure, military insurance can't run out of medical services. The Military Academy must survive. There were no irregularities in the public procurement system at the Ministry of Defense you pointed to, nor have we ever read about it anywhere or discussed it. Did they cut wages and journals? They are like everyone else. Are those salaries and journals small? Yes, but I don't want to tell you that the collapse of our security system started a long time ago. To be honest, it started right after October 5, 2000. These thesiss that we have heard here today from some opposition representatives, that we have no enemies, we have no opponents. What does that mean? Even the prime minister today accused him of talking about arming, as if we had won or won some military, some missile systems from some others. Of course, if we don't have apriori friends and enemies, as the English say, there are no permanent friends and enemies, there are only constant interests. Our interest is primarily Serbia, and that is why we must all fight together for a strong army and police, a strong system of security, national security, without it there is no strong state. But the reduction in wages, the diaries, or the reduction in deficits, were the necessary consequence of the situation in which our finances were. So, your comment is that when we can't deliver the results that we're talking about technical things then, I think it would require a broad answer when it comes to results. You probably talk about results, I don't know what area you mean. You'll probably say there's been no progress in any area. But I want to tell you this, Serbia is today a country that has opened negotiations with the EU on membership. Serbia is a country today capable of talking in the same way in Washington, Moscow, Brussels or anywhere else. Serbia is a country that has managed to protect its national interest among other things by preventing Kosovo's membership in UNESCO from being voted. Since you've been doing foreign affairs and I have to say that even if you're in a state of peace, you're still practically my employee. And you were the political director of the Foreign Ministry for a year when I was prime minister even though you were the opposition. I assume you share the satisfaction of the good results of our foreign policy. Just because you're an opposition doesn't mean you don't have to realize something that's good. Here, Gordana Comic was at the OSCE Council of Ministers, she publicly praised it. (Gordana Comić, from the place: What will I do when it is true.) Well, here's exactly what I want to say. So it doesn't matter if we're the government or the opposition, what's of interest to our country we should support and praise. In any case, I don't want to compromise, I suppose Mr. Stefanovic will come forward because it's a pre-election campaign. I'm not here today for the election campaign. Well, I didn't, because I'm all hoping the Prime Minister will give up his election, because he's scared you enough, there's nobody here. Of the mighty heroes remained Goc, how was the youth?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52501	Deer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52502	Jelena, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52503	Johanna. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52504	And Mr. Stefanovic, but I appreciate you being here and I really don't want you to, I think we should learn from all this. Since I listened to Mr Stefanovic, these days more than once about Libya and I would really not want us to have every difficult situation that we have politicised. Am I going to be held accountable? It doesn't matter, now the election is, what, in two months. Well, I guess the citizens will evaluate who's responsible and who's not. Well, you're not going to judge that, are you? You will, within your jurisdiction, but the Supreme Political Judge is a people. But I'd just like to remind you, Mr. Stefanovic, that you've been there since you were at the Foreign Ministry. I would like to remind you that from 3 September 2007, the chief of staff was Vuk Jeremic, and from 26 August 2011 to 1 May 2013 and the political director of the Foreign Ministry. Since you ask questions – why is the embassy not evacuated, or closed? Well, I'm asking you the same thing. Why didn't you close it when it was the biggest war from February to November, or December 2011? Well, how did you keep our embassy there under the grenades and why did you keep it and why did you sign both the principle and the general authority of the Tosser so that he could leave Tripoli whenever he wanted to go to Tunisia without having to ask my permission? That doesn't have any other ambassadors, except for The Weight. It was signed at the time of your stay at the Foreign Ministry. You didn't sign it. It was signed by the Secretary General. Don't transfer us now. I am responsible for what has been going on since 2014 at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In 2015, I sent a letter, requesting the Effort to answer the question of assessment, August 20th – please forward your assessment of the security situation, which concerns the additional and direct security threat of the DKP and DKS. The response of the embassy from 26 August 2016 – regarding your request for an assessment of the security situation, we held a working meeting of all embassy officers, and the embassy staff is of the opinion that there are no concrete and security risks to the DKP, and no one feels particularly threatened. He doesn't feel insecure. The opinion was expressed that the degree of potential risks was far less than it was in 2011, when Tripoli fell. So they think he was much smaller, and you didn't close the embassy in 2011. That you didn't lock her up. Why did we have so much damage there, so everyone said our snipers were fighting for Gaddafi? At a time when I am the foreign minister, no arms contract has been signed with Libya. I haven't seen Gaddafi in my life, and your former president has seen him four times in five years. He won the Order from Gaddafi on September 1, 2009, while the whole world celebrated 70 years of the start of World War II, Mr Tadic and others from the DS, were at a military parade in Tripoli, near Gaddafi. Mr. Djordjevic, led the Serbian Army to march with Gaddafi, and was that strengthening Serbia's reputation and credibility? Of course, I suggest, everyone who wants it can look at it, and that medal is probably somewhere in the archives and a medal with the character of Gaddafi. I'm sure Mr. Tadic proudly wore it. Just don't talk about some of them right now. I didn't invite the son of Muammer Er Gaddafi here hunting. Secretly, without any knowledge of any kind of public, and you say who was providing him? I didn't provide him, and the MAP didn't know anything about it. Ask the army. Mr. Djordjevic, I hope you'll give us some information on that as well. Was Gaddafi's son on an unofficial visit to Serbia from February 20th to February 23rd for hunting? This occasion was received by President Boris Tadic and Defence Minister Sutanovac. Please, what were the topics of those conversations, does anyone know? No one knew anything about it at the State Department. But don't, I don't want to talk about it. You want to politicize this question by why the embassy isn't closed? Today we have embassies in Syria, Iraq, Tunisia, Egypt. Do you think we should close those embassies? Our political interest, and according to the conclusion that I am not reading all of this, because it belongs to "secretly", according to your security, from that time on, we also have an economic interest in working with these countries, especially Libya. So don't pull the lion by the tail. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I will explain later.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52505	Mr. Djurishic, don't be nervous, wait until Mr. Dacic's exposure is complete, you'll be entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52506	Mr. Djurishich, what were you doing at the time? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Ambassador. ) Have you ever participated in meetings, in coordination with Mr Tadic, etc., and do you know anything about it? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No. If you don't know, then shut up, I'm a participant. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. I'm not running away from all that. I don't want to at all. Don't give yourself any historical significance. You didn't have it. Borko had historical significance, and I admit it to him. He will now say, and said in principle that Zoran Djordjevic will be a technical face. He'll probably say now that at Vuk Jeremic, he had no influence and that's true. I don't slow it down for him. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Call him, what are you calling me? I'm calling him too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52507	Please, Mr. Stefanovic, don't be nervous, wait, you'll have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52508	I'm talking about SMEs that were led by Wolf Jeremic at the time. You know what, do you expect me to come here and you can say anything that I can't answer? Is that right? You can talk about everything. Mr. Stefanovic said that the former SPS member knows all this, and I thought he was thinking of Zoran Lilic, and I actually realized that he was thinking of Vuk Jeremic. Is it true? Anyway, I wanted to, because I probably won't have a chance to discuss it, because the assembly will be disbanded, to turn out, you know, that I've repeatedly initiated that foreign policy is being discussed. It's not my private position. Whether I'm responsible or not, we'll see about that soon, in the election. Here, these are the facts and arguments that are very important, because this is about the functioning of our diplomatic and consular representations around the world. Let me wait and see what you're gonna say, and I'll get back to you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52509	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. You're right, Mr. Djurishic, but you'll have to wait a little while, I can see that you're nervous, but you have to try to hold back and wait. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, replicating Mr. Borko Stefanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52510	Ministers, Mr. Chairman, have made several flat-rate and arbitrary assessments by Mr. Stefanovic. Point 4 of the SNS White Paper refers to a strategy for young strengths for the future, so it did not read carefully. If he had read carefully, he would have found in the white book, but in point 11, point 14, the relationship to VMA, that VMA will remain available to civilians in the future, not at point 14. As far as the relationship with VMA is concerned, the regulation of former Minister Sutanovac, which has made sense to isolate VMA, which has been changed immediately by the defence minister since 2012, Mr. Vukic. As for the bad condition on VMA, yes, it's a bad condition on VMA but it's the result of a bad treatment in the previous period when you were getting it, I don't mean you personally, but when you were getting operating tables that are still standing in some warehouse on VMA today and they're paid neatly, but operating tables are for surgeons who are two meters tall and 20 centimeters. Imagine a surgeon, did you see a surgeon in Serbia two meters tall and 20 centimeters? A simple man, a simple constitution, must climb a hockey alley to operate on that table, but you paid with who knows what commission, who knows what reason. When you talk about corruption, I will remind you that in 2014, the Ministry of Defence in 2015 has shown an improvement, progress in 35 out of 77 indicators, and that now in Group C – a moderate risk of corruption, unlike when the Ministry of Defence led by Mr Sutanovac, when we were in Group D – a high risk of corruption...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52511	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52512	And then we can talk about a three-dimensional radar attack and a company called Paxel through which the purchase of complete food went on a daily basis for Serbia's complete army, so let's see whose side corruption is on whose side is the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52513	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Mr. Borislav Stefanovic. Replication to Mr. Dacic's exposure. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52514	I have a double basis for replica, Mr. Chairman. But, okay, let me go as short as possible and as fast as possible, because of the citizens who are watching this. So, I'm, Mr. Dacic, busy at the competition and this place is not a functioner and it's not a face, don't deceive people. So when you mention a place in the system, ask Mr. Odalovic, he'll explain one thing to you, and another thing when the government sets you up, and you know it very well. I, as an employee, am not yours, but an employee of the Ministry, for years my status has been frozen, as you said, because I am a National MP. That was before politics. I'm saying this for the citizens, so there's no distractions here right now. Of course, I asked about the Department of Defense, about the VMA, about the public procurement, and you went to Libya. I'm sorry you did that. First because that general authority, and you're right, since 2011, I've been dealing exclusively with KIM, and I haven't had any authority given to Mr. Ponos by Minister Jeremic, and you've confirmed it, and you know it's true. Why didn't you call off this power to the Stimuli when you came to the head of the Ministry, or Mr. Mrkic before you? So that's the point, you didn't lift it. Why didn't you, since you were at the embassy, if not, shut down and moved to Bengaza? Why didn't you let The Weights with the bodies of the dead, whenever they left, come back with them, at least for human human reasons, because he worked with these people, not for questioning? I don't blame you personally, Mr. Dacic, it's your responsibility as any minister to have such an accident and tragedy happen, but you can't in these situations, please, just point your finger at someone else and I'm glad you confirmed that you were part of all the consultations, all the agreements and all the decisions with Boris Tadic, because that's true and that's the point, and I didn't get the answers for the Ministry of Defense and we've been listening to those stories again, you haven't answered anything about these corrupt things.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52515	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Replica two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52516	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I think it would be good for the citizens to listen to almost 20 minutes of your exposure and to explain how you're not really responsible for anything, that everything that's going on before you and I'm surprised that you didn't get to Tito, he probably opened that embassy in Tripoli. So they're all responsible. You are referring to “our service ” security assessments, so you said, and then you were corrected“ out of our time. ” That's not our time for four years. What have you been doing for the last two years as foreign minister? What was that argument in 2011 about the war so the embassy didn't close? Fortunately, let me say, nothing happened, now it happened. It's normal to ask now who did his job? You can't run away from your responsibility by saying-- no, somebody else should have closed it. Why didn't you lock her up? I'm also very, very glad that you wanted to insult me, to say that I was nothing and that I was nothing and that I wasn't historically or responsible, I'm not running away from my responsibility for all these 15 years, or 25 years in politics, where I was and what I was doing, and I wasn't part of those coordinations, but you did, you did, but when it comes to the consequences of these policies, you had nothing to do with it. Everything from 2008 to 2012 is terrible, you have nothing to do with it, right? Retirement increase, right, 2008 has nothing to do with you? You don't remember that? What were you doing at the MUP, you don't remember that? Everyone else is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52517	Time. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I can't as Mr. Babic for two minutes and 25 seconds to get it? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: When you grow up. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: So much so that my head can grow. ) I am as obliged as Mr. Babic to warn for two minutes that the time has elapsed. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: "You can't turn me off, you can't turn him off." You can't, coward. I see you're very nervous, sir. It's not a problem to express yourself like that, it's not a problem to threaten, we're used to it, we're not going to do anything new... (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Coward. See, it's not about someone who's spoken to, it's about someone who's saying it. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Speak, speak very much.) ) To the one who says that, and I always and in every place with you, Mr. Djurisic, I can exchange arguments, but I do not insult you or throw you away, and in such a way I do not try to threaten and be brave here in the great Hall of the National Assembly. Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52518	I don't know what you're surprised at, I never said I wasn't in power. Wait, do you realize that whenever they mention the former regime, we break up because we're from the 1990s. We're not ashamed of it. We are responsible for what we are responsible for. When the war was to be fought, to defend the country, we defended the country. Whether Milosevic was exaggerating or not, whether he knew where the border of conflict with the international community was, is now a question. It's been ten years since he died, but he was left behind by the Dayton Agreement and Resolution 1244. That's what everybody's holding on to today. The only three years we weren't in power was when you won October 5th, but that, too, you remember that well, happiness for us, so we weren't at that time. Also, we weren't in power when you and Kostunica agreed to form a coalition, so you chose Tomislav Nikolic as Parliament's president, and after three days you changed attitudes. We have always acted as we have estimated to be in Serbia's best interest. You know what, Mr. Djurisic, if you convinced me until the last day that we should build a government and choose Tadic as prime minister, what's the problem now? What's your problem with us? What, we're not good now, and then we were good, right? While we were with you, we were the best in the world, European-oriented, Democrats, etc., and now what are we? Do you understand one thing, that we did not support you in 2008 because of you, but that Serbia would not have a government with Seselj and Kostunica. You were less evil, because that government couldn't survive, because they wanted to make, as they are now, against the EU. As Vucic will not make a government with those against the EU, I think it was the right decision. Also in 2012, Tomislav Nikolic won the presidential elections, so I voted for Tadic, the people. Here, I admit it, I admit it, and maybe that's why he lost because I voted for him for the first time. But we're in the middle of politics. I don't know why we're angry right now, we're fighting, we're raising our voice, I'm not saying anything at all, and I'm not saying we're not sharing responsibility. But, Mr. Djurisic, when I talked about not being familiar with certain things, there are things that have been discussed on other levels and that's why you don't know. As it was, Prime Minister Vukic often spoke of it, and he was wrong, a decision on a linear pension increase of 10% was not a requirement of the SPS. There was a PUPS request and the DS signed a bilateral agreement, which was out of all the rules, with the PUPS to make 10%, and you can see the statement of the late Jovan Krkobibic. That's what your two parties agreed on. Don't get involved in this right now. We're pleased that you've increased your pensions, but don't make it look like we're responsible. Well, I admit we're not responsible, or, the next time you talk about it, you know at least who's to blame. I don't want to get in the way of it. I've responded to your press statements. You're the only thing you're saying is whether or not the embassy should have been closed. The incident didn't happen at the embassy. The embassy should not be closed, because while there are 300 Serbs, we cannot close the embassy. Will the staff be transferred to Tobruk, Bengaza? No, because it's insecure in Benghazi, but there's no embassy in Tobruk. Will it be transferred to Tunisia? You see, this happened now on the way to Tunisia. It's also an evaluation issue, but we have to assess in the coming days whether we're going to hold an embassy in Syria, Iraq, where our ambassador can't travel without a armored vehicle because he's in a safe zone in Tunisia and everything else. It's not just foreign-political character, it's all about issues that we all have to deal with together as a state. I'm just starting these topics, and I'm not judging anyone whether he pulled or didn't pull certain things during that period. Our assessment then was that it should remain an embassy, forever. Mistakes made can only be mistakes. Did anyone approve that trip? He didn't have my approval, but it turns out he didn't need it. It'll all be determined by the commission. He couldn't come here because we said he had to stay there, end the formalities. A decision on the future of the embassy and will be made in the coming days. But nothing can bring back these two of our officers. I really want to ask everyone to stop talking about some illegal business. We're not talking about the ambassador. I'm talking about these two people who lost their lives. When you look at their families as materially as they are, then they are groundless of every sort of story about anyone dealing with some kind of smuggling or something else. The ambassador's responsibility will be determined, and whether there will be criminal consequences, it is not at the foreign ministry. I'm sorry I started that topic here. I wanted only because we have nowhere else to discuss this with the MPs, because we will not have any more opportunities on the board or at the session of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52519	Thank you. It is certain that it is a difficult loss for the Republic of Serbia. I would ask all the MPs to respect the victims. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52520	I don't know what, Mr. Chairman, the rest is unclear? Three questions were asked, three questions were answered. So VMA is available to citizens and civilians, and so it says in the SNS programme. After all, VMA is a symbol of both military health and the military, but also of our entire society. The issue of corruption within the Ministry of Defence has also been raised. All classified purchases are approved by the Government and checked by the DRI. On the other hand, I will repeat again, according to Transparency International for 2014-2015, the Ministry of Defence has made progress in 35 of 77 indicators and we have entered Group C – a moderate risk of corruption, unlike your time, a time of former regime, when we were in the group of D plus states – a high risk of corruption and now the Ministry of Defence is in the 40 best rankings in the world. It is because of this progress that I have the right to ask the question – why was the supply of food for members of the Ministry of Defence only done on a daily basis and only through one company and one company called "Paxel", through which one can of pasture was paid four times what is now being paid? Why and why is the budget of the Republic of Serbia damaged by 4.5m euros by obtaining three-dimensional radar? This was not at the time of Alexander Vukic or at the time when the defence minister was Mr. Vukic, but at the time when both the state and the army were headed by the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52521	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Comic, you have to wait until we've exhausted the replicas. The word has the People's Messenger Grozdan Banac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52522	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr Dacic, you know very well that it is not the time or place to call ourselves by the parties now and to put anthems on this party or that party, especially with a big drink to Dr Jovan Krkobic, who died. You know very well, we discussed it in a public debate with the representatives of the Fiscal Council. If there was no increase, there was a big difference between coordination and enlargement... That's one. Under two, wages have been increased. This has been increased, and pensions have been harmonised and you know very well that pensioners have been the most endangered social population in this country, unlike today, regardless of the reduction of those larger pensions, because the Prime Minister has taken into account all those small and threatened, and that is over a million. It's really not correct, it's not political, it's not moral. Please don't mention Dr Jovan Krkobiæ the United Pensions Party anymore. You know very well that our current President Milan Krkobbić is very honest and honest about his work and that we represent interest at a given time, as far as we can. You know very well how strong the relationship is everywhere, at all times in all elections. I'm asking you most nicely. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52523	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Yes, Mr. Dacic, but Mr. Jovanovic insists on speaking before you do. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52524	I don't know why you're feeling called PUPS right now. You guys used to brag about it. I was just talking about it being separatistic, why? Because we've been hearing for months about the SPS being guilty. We were in the coalition, but it was your separate agreement signed by Jovan Krkobibic and representatives of the Democratic Party in my presence. (Branac, from the scene: with your consent.) I'm not saying that we were against, which we would be against raising pensions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52525	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52526	Don't get angry with the PUPS now. Let me tell you one thing, I have reason to be angry with you, because you didn't find it appropriate to let me know by phone that you went to the coalition with the SNS. It should be a shame to you, and everything else, we were associates, allies, I wish you all the best. I didn't say a bad word about you, but there's some order. Milan Krkobic did not inform me at all, only told me that he would talk to Vukić and did not inform me at all that you had already made a decision to make a coalition. I wish you a lot of success in the election. I'd rather you go to the election alone, like everyone here who's pretending to be some heroes, so that we can measure our strength, so that everyone gets as much as it belongs to him. I would ban any coalition for the next election. Every party goes to the election alone, then let's see who's the bad guy, who's the both of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52527	I thank you, Mr. Dacic. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the agenda. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. What does this look like? ) Mr. Martinović, just a moment, I hear something in the hall – hey, hey, hey, and so on gestures. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Replication of Mr Dacic's presentation. You have no right to a replica, but I'll give you my word. Mr. Djurishic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52528	Dear Chairman, we're not in the evening yet so you'll run out of concentration. So Mr. Dacic mentioned me again, and I think I have the right to replication. I've been looking and you're constantly ignoring me. To say what I was about to say, Mr. Dacic, this is neither the time nor the place to talk about the victims in Libya, and you pulled that off. None of us in this room started this topic, you did, but I'm not going to talk about it anymore. What I'm trying to say is, it's a shame that we've waited until the end of the term to see who did what and to hear firsthand, so that we don't be ashamed of the agreement on harmonising pensions from October 2008. If that hadn't been done then, the average pension in Serbia would be 150 euros today, not 200 and probably 200, 300 thousand fewer people, because they couldn't survive with the pension. By 2012, every pension was paid in a day, it wasn't late, and the government prescribed its success by saying it won't be late in the future. She was only late until 2000. She's never been late since 2000. In the end, let me tell you, Mr. Dacic, I fully understood your procedure in 2012 following the victory of Tomislav Nikolic in the presidential election. I didn't like your way, because, as you are now complaining that no one has informed you, you have not informed us that since the first day you started negotiating with Tomislav Nikolic to create a new coalition. You've been distracting us for a month, but I understand why you're doing this. Don't tell us we misbehaved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52529	Time, Mr. Djurishich. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this is obviously a political debate, since we are entering the time of the election campaign and this session was not just about the candidate for the defence minister, and I am going to say a few sentences on this subject, I cannot help but look back at the presentation of some colleagues and MPs of the former regime, and the rich and current foreign minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic. He's mad at the PUPS now. He probably has his reasons, but Mr. Dacic, if we put our hands on his heart, and in 2008, you first had a signed agreement on forming power with, as you say, Seselj and Kostunica, and then after that you realized that it was better for Serbia to make a coalition with DS, and then you broke the agreement at the republican level and then linearly brought down to the local level, so that all the local coalitions, which were already signed with the then single SRS, broken by the SPS, then went all the way to coalition with DS. Mr. Dacic, this PUPS thing probably came back to you because of what you did in 2008. As for Mr. Borko Stefanovic's exposure, I don't see that he's in the O.R., he says he had nothing to do with what happened at the Foreign Ministry, he didn't make any decisions, he was just an employee. As far as I know, Mr. Borko Stefanovic was the political director of the foreign ministry, and the political director of the foreign ministry is, in fact, what is in the rest of the ministries, the secretary of state. So, the political director of the Foreign Ministry is a government official and is not an ordinary civil servant, and he is not a tenant in particular. Mr Borko Stefanovic also functioned as well as how he had influence in the way the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works, and how he had information about what was going on in Libya, that Libya was a state at the stage of decomposition, that there was a civil war and that there was an objective danger when it comes to the security of our diplomatic, or consular officials. Here we were talking about this this morning, while Prime Minister Vukic was present, as we allegedly were in the 1990s for war with the NATO Pact, and how someone else was not in favor of war with the NATO Pact. No one was in favor of war with the NATO Pact, nor was Alexander Vucic in favour of war with the NATO Pact. The NATO Pact has committed aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia could not accept the proposed political agreement in the second phase of the Rambuje negotiations. The government that was then in Serbia has nothing left to do but defend the country. Alexander Vukic, like the other ministers in the government, defended the country. But while Aleksandar Vukic defended the country from NATO aggression, someone else was setting up locators around Serbia and someone else from Montenegro, from Germany urged NATO to hit Yugoslavia even harder, as NATO would allegedly hit harder before the regime of Slobodan Milosevic fell. These are historical facts, and someone should be ashamed of what he said this morning when Alexander Vukic was present. As for the candidate for defence minister Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, I personally know Zoran Djordjevic, I think it is a very good professional who is very well aware of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. I think he also had extraordinary results as Secretary of State at the Department of Defense, and I think he'll be an extraordinary secretary of defense when we choose him today. I am convinced that Mr. Zoran Djordjevic will continue the policy of Aleksandar Vukic, continue the policy of Mr. Nebojko Rodic, and will continue the policy of Mr. Bratislava Gasic, because these are three defence ministers since 2012, who have managed to make the Ministry of Defence, and above all, the Serbian Army significantly improve and raise the defence power of the Republic of Serbia. Here, just a little reminder of all the successes we have achieved at the Ministry of Defence, I think of Mr. Vukic and Mr. Rodic and Mr. Bratislav Gasic from 2012 to 2016. We managed to save at the Department of Defense 1.3 billion dinars, settled the housing issue for 900 professional soldiers and military pensioners. From 2012 to 2015, the Serbian Army participated in 97 major international military exercises and implemented 688 different activities of international military co-operation. The defence ministry has supplied various products intended for Serbia's military amounting to over sixm euros through donations. Significant progress has been made in the fight against crime and corruption. We are participating in 11 peacekeeping missions with more than 600 soldiers on an annual basis. For the last four years, therefore, between 2012 and 2016, 89 new weapons and military equipment were developed and 27 funds were modernised and 17.625 pieces of arms and military equipment were refurbished. Additional funds amounting to 600 million dinars for spare parts and remonting of Mig 29 and Mig 21 aircraft have been provided. It was formed for the first time in the Republic of Serbia by the Budgetary Fund for Arms and Military Equipment, and the revenue from the sale of surplus weapons and military equipment or outdated weapons and military equipment is more than one billion dinars. The value of the licenses issued shows how much the Ministry of Defence has made sense to profit and business on the market, so the value of the permits issued for the export of arms and military equipment for the last four years is $750m. There's been an increase in the number of employees in enterprises called the so-called company. the dedicated industry for 2,115 workers, while the average net earnings in six companies in the area of the dedicated industry are higher by 15.4% and is 50,452 dinar. In the last three years 35,865 sets of new uniforms and 31,445 pairs of military boots have been purchased. The army has returned to Zrenjanin and Požega garrisons and has completely renovated barracks in Somboro, Krusevec, Zrenjanin and Belgrade. The Centre for Simulation at the South Base was built, a hangar was built at Batajnica Airport, the Ravnak polygon near Kruševac and the Athletic Hall in Belgrade. At this very moment mentioned military-medical academy, through the Military-medical Academy and in general through the military-medical service of the Serbian Army, the most necessary medical assistance was provided for 9,000 migrants who were presently on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the Republic of Serbia, including the Ministry of Defence, has shown solidarity, and we have shown as a state that we are ready to participate in solving the problem of migrants, refugees, much more than countries that are formal EU members. What is also an indication of the increase in confidence in Serbia's Army is the next data – for voluntary military service in the past 2015, 4.413 candidates reported, and 2,359 persons were sent to serve the military deadline. After 21 years, secondary schools were reintroduced. Serbia's military and the Ministry of Defence have shown their humanity by organising a humanitarian action called "The Book of Gifts", and 75,000 books have been donated to libraries and children throughout Serbia through this action. Also, another evidence of the humanity of the Serbian Army and of our military health is the action "A doctor in the country", which was conducted in 51, a mostly remote village, and more than 2,300 citizens of the Republic of Serbia were examined on that occasion. I want to thank all the defence ministers from 2012 to 2016 for these impressive results and Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and Mr. Rodic and Mr. Bratislav Gasic. I wish you Mr. Djordjevic much happiness and success in his work. I hope that you will continue with good working predecessors, that the Serbian Army will be proud of both Serbia and the whole Serbian people, and that it will be a key defence factor, that no one can think of re-enacting any form of aggression on the Republic of Serbia, as I am convinced that Serbia and the Ministry of Defence will continue to lead a policy of peace, stability in the Balkans, policies to develop good inter-neighbor relations, military neutrality policy, European integration policy, but also the policy of not turning their backs on our traditional friends and allies, and above all I think of the Russian Federation. Once again, Mr. Djordjevic, let me perhaps congratulate you in advance on your election and wish you a lot of happiness and success in future work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52531	Thank you. Mr. Dacic, would you like a word? Here you go. First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52532	Well, since Mr. Martinovic has made no mistake with me, and I am here as an official representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, let me tell you a few words. In 2008, the Serbian Progressive Party did not exist. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Yes. ) In October 2008, there was, in 2008, I refused the coalition with Seselj and Kostunica and I will refuse and now, if anyone so requests. Toma Nikolic and Vukic are not the same as Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian Radical Party. Please, well I understand that Mr. Martinovic, it took him four years to realize that the Serbian Progressive Party is better than the Serbian Radical Party. Since on July 4th 2012, he joined me when I received a mandate from Tome Nikolic as Prime Minister in a coalition with the Serbian Progressive Party. I don't understand. What do you want now? Okay, do you want to fight with me here? (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52533	Please. Let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52534	As far as I'm concerned, you know we made a deal at the city level, but that condition by the DS for forming the Republic Government was to make a coalition at the city level. After all, we also replaced Gilas and Aleksandra Jerkov and everyone else and this one out of Užica, even though we made a coalition with DS. I forgot my last name. I'm sorry. Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52535	Please, Miss Jovanovic, listen to Mr Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52536	I mean, you have no reason to do that. I didn't challenge you with anything I said. I was talking about PUPS and the way PUPS then signed an agreement with DS on a linear pension increase. What does that have to do with SNS? The Serbian Progressive Party has defined it as a bad move and it has caused a deficit in the budget. After all, the prime minister spoke more than once. I just wanted to say that we weren't involved. On the other hand, I also said that I didn't want anything bad to do with SNS with PUPS, it would just be my turn, and it was their president's turn to let me know, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52537	Please, Mr. Dacic, let's just get this debate back on the table, and that's the Secretary of Defense's choice. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52538	I'm absolutely okay with it, but you know what, it's not right that now, I haven't mentioned the SNS once. I was talking about the opposition. They're our political opponents. If you're going to attack me here, I don't know what we're talking about. Therefore, be correct, I am really very correct and I think it is in Serbia's interest to be together and that it is certainly better for us to be together than to make coalitions with DOS or some on the right, whether it is Seselj or DSS, Kostunica or anyone on the right. That's my opinion, and I'm sure that's how it's gonna be in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52539	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52540	As you said Mr. Dacic well, I agree with you. No one can expect anyone to talk about you that you don't like and you don't. So don't expect me to keep my mouth shut. The SPS did not sign any coalition with Seselj in 2008 because the man was in The Hague. The coalition for the City of Belgrade has been signed, I will now tell you, the chairman of the SRS City Committee Nemanja Sarovic and the chairman of the City Committee, Mr Petronijevic, and they are in the background of the signing of Aleksandar Vukic and Aleksandar Antic. You tell me if it's true or not. Together, we protested in Belgrade asking for a constitutional session of the Belgrade City Assembly to be convened, that what was signed on paper would become part of the work, that a coalition that had previously been agreed would be formed, that in August, you Socialists would elect Dragan Gilas as mayor of Belgrade. Is that how it was and what you now expect from the SNS that someone will take your word for it, that after the next election, you will not go with these or those in the coalition? Mr. Dacic, I respect you, and I think you're a very skilled and capable politician, but let me still prefer my party president and my party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52541	Thank you. Mr. Dacic, you can only get a replica if you want to replicate to Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52542	I want a replica. Mr. Martinovic, I'm not asking you to trust me with anything. Who asked you to trust us? We're all going to the election, and we're not asking you to do anything. We're not hiding behind Alexander Vukic's name like the vast majority here sitting in the O.R. I'm sorry, not in the O.R., but in the government, which are other parties than SNS. That's what I mean. On the other hand, as far as we get, we'll have so much trust. What difference does it make if you trust us or not? If you've been with us for four years and you don't trust us, then I don't think you've asked that part of the question properly. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't irritate you with anything, nor did I mention SNS absolutely. I was talking about DS, PUPS, SDS and the others. You, Mr. Martinovic, don't give me a lesson because I already told you, I identified myself as SNS before you. I never told Mr Nikolic he was the same as Boris Tadic. Don't make us fight about it now who's bigger or smaller. I don't care about that. Alexander Vukitch is a friend of mine. We work together. We've got the results. What more do you need? Love each other? We shouldn't love each other. We should work together in Serbia's interest. That's all. I'm not asking you for any... Should we now swear allegiance to one another? Besides, whoever knows that knows that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52543	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52544	It's true, Mr. Dacic, that before me, you've come into co-operation with the SNS, but it's also true that I've never been in any political alliance with the DS, and you have. I never signed an agreement on fraternization and political co-operation with the DS, and you did. I never had the privilege of playing basketball with Boris Tadic, like you. So there's something about what you said that's true, but there's a lot that's not true. Since obviously we have entered the political arena from the field of election for the defence minister and the election campaign, then allow us from the SNS to say something on the subject. As we have said in the past few weeks and months, it is not correct for certain senior SPS officials to talk uglyly about the policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we're together in the government, as you say, then I don't know why dissonant tones by some high-ranking SPS officials. Does this mean that one part of the SPS supports the government's policy, and the other part consciously or unconsciously, by some intention or directive is being built on that policy, so when difficult measures are needed to take then we do not support the government. When the government achieves success, then we're together with the SNS in that government. No one here has been hiding behind Alexander Vukic, but it is obvious that the greatest burden of all that the Serbian government has done since 2012, especially since 2014, has fallen on the back of that man.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52545	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52546	And that's a fact and everyone sees it in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52547	I thank Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52548	I'm done. Whenever a heavy law had to defend itself in the Serbian Parliament, Aleksandar Vukic personally came to the Assembly to defend both "Belgrade on Water" and reduce wages and pensions and many other difficult reform laws. So if someone's supposed to admire Alexander Vukic, then it's the SNS because we think the man almost took the whole state on his back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52549	Now that we see that this isn't leading to anything right now, I'm gonna have to take a break if you insist on continuing to... (Zoran Babic, from the place: Why? ) Because at this point, Mr. Milicevic appeared. We still have to get back to the subject. If you think I should talk about this matter, it's not a problem. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52550	It's not my intention at all to spread passion and spread negative energy, negative tension. I just want to say a few things. So, in the past and in the past, you don't live. The past teaches lessons, affirms what was good if it was good. Parties that speak only of the past have neither the present nor the future. You know, when we talk about the past, there's a slogan, there's a slogan here in the O.R., I think, and those who come from the times of the Communist Union, which says that nothing is so sacred that it couldn't be replaced by anything better and more advanced. This is how the Socialist Party of Serbia behaves. Everyone has a responsibility. As far as we're concerned, we're always ready, I'm talking now about the period from 2008 to 2012, since it was a matter of few words, we're always ready to account for what we've taken responsibility for. Yes, I said in my presentation today, many times we have made it quite clear and precise in the Republic Parliament, we are part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, sharing the responsibilities and values of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. There are no directives, no divisions. I am telling you what is a clear stance and the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary club, but we also share sanctions from voters when the time comes. Our dream is the same dream that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has. Our goals are the same goals that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, which is to create a modern, successful, developed Serbia, Serbia, which will be part of the family of European countries. Change that dream of the nightmare by returning DOS to power, it would mean not that we betrayed someone, but that we lost our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52551	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52552	Thank you. Carefully following the debate, dialogue, conversation, however, about the election of candidate Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and if out of all the care of what is said peels unnecessary food, cynicism without classyness and as much folklore as pre-election days require to mark who, who will be the authority, who will be the authority, who will be the opposition, when all this is peeled down, unfortunately, for my very long time, then I see two good threads that we dragged through this debate. The first is personal responsibility, and the second is the responsibility of the institutions. This is the topic to be discussed, when the Prime Minister is elected on a proposal from the Prime Minister for any portfolio, including in this case for the defence portfolio. So, personal responsibility and responsibility of the institutions. Just to illustrate why it is so important, I will remind candidate Zoran Djordjevic, whom the institution inherits and is elected at the head of the Ministry of Defence of what is all that it has to inherit, and who has left it, at least for the 26 years I have been following, participating and witnessing elections and building a legal society and rule of law in Serbia. So, all that was installed in that institution by Bratislav Gašić, Nebojsa Rodić, Aleksandar Vukic, Dragan Sutanovac, Prvoslav Davinić, Boris Tadic, Slobodan Krapović, Pavle Bulatovic. I may have confused the minds of generals who were also considered natural in the early 1990s to run the Department of Defense. Two of them led the ministry longer than others, Pavle Bulatovic and the federalist for seven years, and Dragan Sutanovac five. Pavle Bulatovic was killed in an assassination near military buildings and has rarely been mentioned since. If we want to discuss the legacy of the institutions, I think one of your jobs would be to take care of it, taking responsibility for the institution you take in your own personal responsibility. What is your personal responsibility? Right now, absolutely nothing, because you don't have any jurisdiction until the moment you take the oath. It is my responsibility, because I believe that we all who participate in the public scene have a very large responsibility, to tell you what will be the topic of dialogue between me and you, me as MPs, and you as defence minister once you take an oath. Personal responsibility is something I asked of everyone who preceded you. I also considered former, resolved Minister Bratislava Gasic personally responsible for not providing me with answers to two questions. The first question I asked him on every possible menu of the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly is available ways – who gave him the information based on which he estimated that he should give the order of the mouth, past the subordination, to launch a rescue helicopter mission? I don't have the right to ask you that. It is a personal responsibility and this issue goes away together with the resolved minister, Gasic, and it is not my right to ask that question to anyone else. But there remains another question, which is your personal responsibility, whose answer is not in any report and to which your predecessor has persistently refused to provide me with answers. So, who changed the flight plan for the helicopter that took place on March 13th, here in 11 days from today, tragically collapsed, and so we all lost seven people? There are various ways in which our communication will continue. I'm going to ask this second question, not anymore, because the one whose personal responsibility is no longer in charge, and we'll see if the written parliamentary issue ends as it has been, that the defence minister says on a clear matter – it's the prosecution's case, it's the subject of the investigation. It's not, and we all know that we know how it works and how the flight plan works and how the services that control the flight plan work. Whether there will be an answer between you and me remains ahead of us to see. I hope so, and you, according to your own personal conscience and responsibilities. Why is it that, and with this end, it is important from this discussion to peel off all, never clear to me, one power and that cynicism without classiness and this incredible violent communication that basically only sends a message of arguments on the mouth – then we will all be united? Not when we fight like that, how can I tell you? So, I don't understand that part, but it's part of the right legitimate folklore language used in the debates. But what I want us all to understand through dialogue is are we going to build a vengeful society with that language or are we going to build a society of rule of law? That language is mentioned and I am sure that, given your previous knowledge and experience, you understand how difficult it has been from the defence sector that has passed, I think, one of the most dramatic reforms thanks to all ministers, who, who more, as probably financial expertise financing these services and countries from the 1990s would be impossible work, even for doctoral dissertation, as it has been financed from lack of evidence, and you, I see, in scientific papers, would not be bad at all. So, I'd like to read more often in your performances, as the elected defence minister, the tendency to the society of the rule of law, than to the vengeful society, and more often to listen to a language that is completely free of what the public language normally involves in us. If there's a way for you to repay yourself well to any of your predecessors, if you respect one, hopefully all, then that's a recommendation. If I were you, I'd do it. The fact is that it is procedurally scheduled for this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is not disputed. The way it's scheduled is free space for us to criticise, with all the folklore of the language that means it. The data in the biography is also the subject of our criticism. For example, there's no record of your birth. For everything the government won't give me available, there's an Internet for it, but I guess it's a secret information and I'm not going to share it even now, and so is the sixth degree and so on. So, for all that is happening both procedurally and legally, I just want to illustrate one case to you when many of us were in this room in 2006, when three of the ministers without a election became Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with my protest, because it's a disgrace. I think it was a shame at the time, and now it's a shame. If I compare the interpretation of the procedure, then this is the way you choose fully in the procedure, while in 2006 the government, foreign minister, defence minister and Rasim Ljajic became ministers of the government of the Republic of Serbia without anyone ever voting for them. With the hope that you will earn the votes of the majority, this time and with the expectation of answering my parliamentary question, I must deny you my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52553	I thank Mrs. Comic, but if you want to know that on February 11, 1970. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djordjevic, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at first let me say, since we are talking about something about our country's defence system, security, security, that there is no example in the history of humanity that a nation or state, a nation has achieved or defended its national, national, national interest, and that the same state has not had economic stability and economic prosperity. That is why those who criticise why the Prime Minister who proposed Mr. Djordjevic as defence minister in the coming period even mentioned the economic situation and what happened in 2015 in terms of Serbia's economic advances are not right at all, because there is no defence system, there is no security, there is no security for our citizens. So I think it should be repeated again that in 2015, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic as Prime Minister opened 27 new factories in Serbia and that we had a billion and 800m euros in investment in Serbia, which hasn't happened in Serbia for several years without significant privatisation, meaning clean investments. We also need investment because they not only employ investment, but mostly investment from EU Member States, the largest part of these investments, which proves that our path, the strategic path towards the EU, is confirmed and that people who deal with the EU recognise it and invest in Serbia. I repeat again, thanks to the government of Aleksandr Vukic, these investments bring us new technologies, and that is what is also important, not only jobs but also new technologies that we do not have and that are because of everything that has been happening to us in the last 25 years Serbia's insatiable need. Among other things, there is the need of the Army of the Republic of Serbia and our defence system, because we have a great army. This was about some data, tables. I have this opportunity to talk, even with many military figures, generals of various states who have had the opportunity to work with our soldiers on international missions, who say that our soldiers are one of the most professional they've worked with, managed, if not the most professional. When I say "soldiers," I mean the officer's office, of course, and the professional soldiers we have. But the fact is that because of the economic crisis and everything that's been happening to us, the wars we've had, the sanctions, the robbery privatisation, and everything that's happened to us in the last 25 years, we've come into a situation that both the military and the entire defense system is technologically in a difficult situation and that's actually something that we need to work on the most. That's why we need a stable economy, investment, and that's why we need new technologies and of course investment in our dedicated industry. What else is important for a functional defence system in one country? The important thing is that we have allies and friendly relationships. Since we're a military neutral state, we can't have allies, because we're military neutral, but we can have friends and we can have associates. It is known in Europe that we have two, I say, military forces, and that is the Russian Federation, and there is a NATO pact. We are in Europe and it is good that when we lead a policy of military neutrality we work together with each other. But there are works, in my opinion, of the unserious people in Serbia who, every co-operation with the NATO Pact, which someone says, I say as a MP and someone who served as a member of the anti-aircraft defence and who during the bombing was a member of our military and fought against the aggression of the NATO Pact, means those who bombed us at that time and defended their people and the state. As the Prime Minister said, I am proud of it, and now I am the head of our delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. It's something that says how and how we should work together and how we need to overcome some problems. So those who attack the government of the Republic of Serbia or us in parliament because we have established excellent co-operation through the Partnership for Peace, the agreements mentioned above, are extremely wrong. It would be best for the public to find out exactly how much of a great deal these agreements are and how much the Republic of Serbia's military benefits from all of this. That I think the next government and the next defence minister, I think after the election that will be held in a few months, will need to change from what has been a practice so far. Those who criticise this co-operation often call themselves patriots, and I look at them, though, a little bit lighter, let's say, they don't use violent methods but only manipulation of lies and propaganda, but as members of the Islamic state advocate some Caliphate, so it seems to me that you call patriots advocating something that would be a Orthodox mosque, and it has nothing to do with nor is it necessary for the state of Serbia. Real patriots in Serbia want peace, stability, security, security for their citizens. Real patriots in Serbia want economic growth, economic growth. Real patriots in Serbia are fighting this way through investments, so, by opening up factories to get to the end of this decade, to try to get to 1,000 euros in average wages, but not with 20% of the unemployed in the Tadic and Pajtic regime, not even the current 18%, but to reduce the number of unemployed to only 2%, which is about something that is the average in the EU. That young people in such a country remain, that they do not go exactly to developed EU countries but to see their future and life in Serbia. That's what Serbia needs. Such is the kind of Serbia that Aleksandar Vukic and this government that worked. As an MP, since this is probably the last opportunity to address this call of parliament and citizens in this way, I want to thank the government for doing so, and I hope that in Parliament they have had the support and assistance enough, but these are the real patriots who advocate for this and such Serbia. What else do we need? Regional stability and co-operation. That's what we did in parliament, through committees and delegations, of course, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, which it has shown. A stronger justice system is needed, the country's legal system. It takes a democratic state, which we have. The free media we have, because if we didn't have them, those insecure ones who don't have the support of the people could have so much space in the media when they attack the government and make up lies about various situations and co-operation. Of course, it all brings us to the point where we have a strong army. I've already said my opinion of the Army, I think it's the most orderly system in our country right now. The military is run by the general staff and politics on the other hand, through the minister, the government, to parliament. We, if you didn't know the only parliament in Europe to decide on the departure of our troops to the mission, are in all other countries the executive authorities. That's how democratic Serbia is when something like that is decided where people's will is, and that's in the National Assembly. It is necessary to continue to increase the educational level in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, as I said technical equipment, and to continue, I hope that this policy will continue, a continuation of honor and notice everywhere in the world of the participation of our soldiers in peacekeeping missions, and as observed. It's not a sentence that's just being pronounced, really one of our best diplomats that we have and who represent Serbia. Once again, I repeat, that Mr. Vukic's proposal to be Mr. Djordjevic's new minister has my support as a MP, and of course, of all SNS MPs. To finish, I'm not surprised after this debate today when I saw two different surveys today where the SNS is said to already have 50% support for citizens, and the elections are not yet scheduled, while others are more, more, on the edge of the censorship, with a few of our better and safer quality partners standing. So we have a motive to keep working, and I hope it works alone, and a new minister after the election today. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52555	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52556	Dear President, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Djordjevic, today we have had plenty to hear about your work within the Ministry of Defence, and you have been a participant in all of this which is actually the results of the ministry's work during the three ministers. But it should be said for the citizens of Serbia, that your biography really corresponds to today's place for which you are running. Mr. Chairman, I won't be taking away for a long time just for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, since some of the party members have been demeaning on the subject you're studying and what your biography is, it's very important to say why you're apostrophysing that you've completed the sixth Belgrade high school, because that high school, which I went to, has given our greats and culture and art and great writers. But it's very difficult to leave a high school like that, mostly to go to math high school and become a member of the Mense. So, Mr. Djordjevic is one of the 100,000 members of the world who are members of the MENSE, or association, based on certain tests, you belong to 2% of the total population that is above a certain degree of intelligence through a certain test. So, according to the latest 2014 reports in Serbia, there are only 1200 people who are members of MENSE. I think it is one of the important data that everyone needs to know, including those who tried to undermine Mr. Djordjevic's education. I think it's even the reason why there are certain skills that you listed in your biography with complete justification, because in these past four years where you've been the secretary of state you've implemented certain economic reforms and ultimately, you've been involved in bringing this master plan and defining the property that no one has done before 2012. When we talk about certain skills in risk management and financial research, then it is very important, because we in Serbia need to know how much of the property of Serbia belonging to the Yugoslav Army, which is being held as a member of the defence ministry. I believe that your contribution to this area is very important and I think that with the justification of the great, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic has proposed you for this function and I believe that my colleagues have listed where you are all going to find the previous defence ministers of Serbia and I think that this is where you really belong. I think today, essentially, whether you will be in the next term of the Government Minister or not, your contribution at all in this area is of great importance, with that in the day to vote with satisfaction, and that is already in a few minutes we will be taking part in voting on that function.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52557	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. He has the word as the last registered speaker, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52558	Mr. Minister, Mr. Becic, Mr. Djordjevic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my colleague Tomic, SNS, the SNS parliamentary group said, will vote for you in a few minutes or a few dozen minutes, Mr. Djordjevic. You are taking on a very important role and a very important sector within the government of the Republic of Serbia. Many reasons were discussed by my colleagues and colleagues, and I am truly grateful to them for today’s correct debate. I'm going to add some of my reasons for voting for you and I hope to be able to remove what's subjective, because it would be my pleasure to vote for my colleague and friend today. What I'm going to vote for you for, Mr. Djordjevic, is that, together with the other people at the Ministry of Defence, you managed to make savings only during 2015 during one year of 1.3 billion dinars and only during 2015. You are no longer going on those military tours as they spoke to dozens of officers, journalists, as a former defence minister used to do and as Mr. Sutanovac did. Now, on that official trip, you go with one or two officers, and that's how you make huge savings. You were fully involved, Mr. Djordjevic, in a project to renovate a villa for the accommodation of foreign delegations, as well as other premises within the barracks, so now foreign delegations, instead of in the overpriced hotels, are, of course, staying, in that villa or within the barracks of the Serbian Army. You, Mr. Djordjevic, along with your colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, did household business and instead of 57 million dinars, as it was the custom to give and to pay for the heating tree, to carry out sanitary cuttings of the forest, in Dobanovci and thus save 57 million dinars. Because of this way of leading the Ministry of Defence, your Ministry has no debt at this time, unlike the period of 2012, when you inherited Mr. Djordjevic, and you probably know it much better than I do, a debt of 1.32 billion dinars. A billion and 320 million were owed by the Ministry of Defence in 2012. What, what, why, who? But you have succeeded in these four years, while you were the secretary of state along with your colleagues, that debt of a billion and 320 million dinars, you're down to zero, as it is this year. Of course someone will say, "Where is this development?" Currently in the Fund, which serves to research and develop and acquire new weapons, for the needs of the Serbian Army, is nearly 6 million dinars. This fund is filled with arms and military equipment, which has been advertised, surplus, or, due to the expiry of resources, so I have made a small analysis, because in addition to transparency and legality, in the process of selling these equipment, you are unlike the 2008 period. In 2012, four years and four years of yours, earning the same amount of weapons that were sold, 833 million dinars more, because one grenade or one bullet was not sold to which the resource for the tenth part of the price or tenth part of the value was expired, but in one real and transparent way, and therefore the Fund for research, development and procurement of new weapons is never more full. I've talked a lot about corruption, I've talked a lot about fighting corruption, and it can be seen through opinion, and through Transparency International, where you've contributed to the Ministry of Defence, or the Serbian Army being in 40 states, 40 armies, the first 40 armies in the world. The defense system is in the 40 best in the world. Of course, military health, mentioned tables, surgical tables for VMA, for people, for surgeons at 2.10, 2.15 meters as if there were, as if we had many such people in Serbia at all, let alone a surgeon. So, what's been done with these surgical tables and who's now getting something like that? New uniform sets have been obtained, I will not repeat, my distinguished colleague Martinovic and the military boots, but I see that someone has resented the contract with Jumko, probably not to resent that this contract, which is not small, amounts to 213 million dinars, is about the purchase of 5,900 uniforms, probably so that they would not mind a private company, not Jumko, not our friends, or our fellow citizens, fellow citizens of Mr. Dragan Nikolic, people working in Jumko. What I would especially point out is that the reserves, that the Serbia Army's full reserve is 100% for the first time, are full of warehouses and that's good, as opposed to some period when the purchase was done on a daily basis, and even so on a daily basis, only one company called Paxel had to be done, and that purchase that was made on a daily basis through the company "Paxel" was paid, for example, one can of pasta or meat-cut was paid at four times the price that is now being done. Realisation of housing and that is another reason why I will be pleased to vote for you today, Mr. Djordjevic, because you are part of the system which in 2015 resolved the housing issue for more than 900 professional members of the military and military pensioners, and in 2012 when you became State Secretary, a total of 4,082 housing issues have been resolved on different grounds. The Bezanjski Kosa facilities of the Serbian Army that began construction in 1998 are now completed. Fifty-seven apartments, Mr. Djordjevic, have succeeded, which have been illegally used to return to the housing fund, 54 studios which have also been non-transparently assigned, have been returned to the housing fund. You succeeded Mr. Djordjevic that Snezana Malovic, who illegally used the Ministry of Defence's villa for six years, was also able to return the villa and renovate the villa for the accommodation of foreign delegations. Serbia's defence industry in 2015 made exports of equipment and weapons for a record $750m. This year we really expect because contracts are signed for just over $400m, we expect you to pick up that scale in 2016 and have that scale for you, Mr. Djordjevic, at the moment, on a round number of billions of dollars. The average growth in production in the dedicated industry has contributed to the fact that currently in the dedicated industry for 2,115 people is more employed, 2,115 families have the possibility and have the existence of this job that you have managed to contract and to employ people in the dedicated industry and here I think of Trstenik, both Uzice and Valjevo, both in Belgrade and all those plants where there is a military industry. The average earnings in the dedicated industry increased by 15.4% and now amounts to slightly more than 50,000 dinars, while the average salary at the time of these DS experts was about 30,000 dinars. I won't tell you of 89 new weapons and military equipment, modernized 27, refurbished etc. You worked hard on the training infrastructure, Mr. Djordjevic, and in 2015 you managed to complete the South Base Simulation Centre 700 square meters in 2015. A hangar was built on the Batajnica area of 4,000 square meters. From 2012 to 2015, six polygons for the total area of one million 202 thousand 304 square meters. Polygons in the size of a million and 200 thousand square meters. They really deserve attention and support, Mr. Djordjevic. Two shooting sites, 45 training cabinets, 43 internal security facilities, four tactical routes, etc., a lot. Returning the army to the garrison in Zrenjanin and Požega. A casarna in Sombor, Krusevec, Zrenjanin and Belgrade, not to say all those things that you unfortunately had to correct from the past, not to mention those tanks in Zrenjanin, in which the mule was left, which, because of its unusing and low temperatures, turned into nothing, so you had to take out both those tanks and the mule and how much costs were based on it. Let's see what you've found and why from the barracks in Surdulica is new, a brand-new energana, which has cost a baslovno, a brand-new energy plant that at one point is placed in a barracks in Surdulica in the next day or in the next month it rises again to be worn in the Base “South”. What's the cost? It is also necessary in the South Base, of course, it is necessary in Surdulica, but isn't there one of these experts from the former regime, to do business, to put a finger on his head and treat it as his own, so to say - I need it in the South Base, it's more important to me, I'll carry it there first; and no – we'll put it in Surdulica and we'll take it to Base "South". The reputation of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army is great. International exercises, 68 relationships for four years until 2012 unlike the 97 exercises you have now performed in these four years from 2012 to 2015, Mr. Djordjevic, and with 2,149 participants, now the company is going and more soldiers than before when only the leader of soldiers went. What is also interesting and someone tried to honor here, and these are trade unions and work with military unions, those who have such good information, they still had to have the right information, and it is that you and Mr. Gasic had meetings with military unions and before their representativeness, that they actually got representation by law, aside from the fact that these same trade unions or at least individuals in those trade unions were looking for prime phone numbers, mobile phones, fuel, cars and offices for themselves, but not to talk to you about another 900 members of Serbia's Army or pensions to get a roof over their heads, but only to think about some of their own things. But it would be an honor to them, and it would be an honor for you to discuss with them the needs of members of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia and at the time when they had no representativeness. These are some of the things that I've done in these 12.13 minutes to say about you. I can also say a lot about you personally as about a patient, energetic, quality man, and therefore the SNS will vote for you in the voting day, I believe it will be in the next few minutes, with great pleasure and great pride in voting for you, Mr. Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52559	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The election of Mr. Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister is the highlight of the demagogy of Aleksandr Vukic. I don't mind Mr. Djordjevic, I just want to remind you that Aleksandar Vukic has delayed Bratislav Gasic's shift for two months, since he allegedly did not have an adequate solution for the minister. And now, look, he's found this solution in the Department of Defense itself, and that's the Secretary of State. I wonder if it's possible that the prime minister doesn't know who his secretary of state is in the ministries and that it takes him almost three months to reach one of them? It is the same demagogy that Alexander Vukic is imputing to us politics – we hate Vukic. To be clear, I don't hate any human being in this world. The fact that Alexander Vukic hates all those who are not seduced by his demagogue and do not vote for him is his problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52561	Mr. Senic, will you take the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52562	Mr. Becicu, on February 5th at 16 and 15 minutes Alexander Vukic spoke the following - in the end, I love that policy we hate Vukic, it's the best policy etc. Since you didn't interrupt it then, I'm asking you to let me go, since it's obviously a theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52563	But, Mr. Senic, that's not on the agenda, the hatred you have for the Prime Minister. It's on the agenda to elect a minister of defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52564	That's exactly what I'm talking about, that I don't have any hate, because I...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52565	Well, then why the need to say it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52566	Because he imputed it to me when we replaced Bratislava Gasic. I want to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52567	Mr. Senic, that's not the point right now. The subject is the choice of the Secretary of Defense and I ask you to speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52568	All right. We will not vote for Mr. Djordjevic, because we do not support this government, because the principle of usefulness has subordinated society to social benefits, its own benefits and its own importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52569	Time. Thank you, Mr. Senic. Two minutes and three seconds you had The word has a folk MP, Mr. Babic, a replica. [[Alexander Senic: But you took so much from me for a replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52570	Interestingly, for Mr Tadic, for Mr Cedo Jovanovic, the demagogy of 27 open factories is 22 months, and I guess by trying to show that the sale of Miskovic's "Maxi" is a much better investment than 27 open factories, that it is a reduced deficit by half, and that is for Mr Tadic and Jovanovic's demagogy, that the reduced unemployment rate that we inherited from them from 26% to just over 17, as it is right now, and that is for Mr Tadic's demagogy. Demagogy for Mr Tadic is probably open chapters, one he couldn't even hold in his hand, let alone open them. The demagogy for Mr Tadic is probably the stability of our society, which we have succeeded, regardless of the challenges we have faced over the past 22 months, we have managed to preserve the stability of our society. All that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia live on, all that they expect from us, for Mr Tadic is demagogy. Probably not a demagogue promised 200,000 jobs, so people lost 400,000 jobs. It's probably not the demagogy of that robbery privatisation we were faced with from 2008 to 2012. It is unlikely that it is not demagogy that we were visited in a wide port by all of the international community because one policy led in Belgrade, the other in Moscow, the third in Brussels, and the fourth in who knows where. Say, guys, what do you think is not demagogy? What? And what is all the effect of the government of Alexander Vukic over the past 22 months?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52571	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Marko Djurisic, head of the parliamentary group, the Replica, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52572	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, demagogue is when you boast about 1.8 billion investments, compared to 2011 investments, which amounted to 3.3 billion euros. Of course, demagogy is when you boast about opening the chapter four years after Serbia gained candidate status, meaning two months before the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic lost power. At the age of four, of course, you are champions of slowness on the path of European integration. Of course, demagogue is 2.8% when you boast of 0.8% growth at a time when the average GDP growth in the region is 2.8% and the minimum rate of investment per capita. Of course, demagogue is when you try to respond to how the first next country in the region is with foreign investment of 400 million that is not in the EU. If the prime minister meant Montenegro, it is, of course, four times less, but Montenegro has 10 times fewer inhabitants than Serbia, so it cannot. And compared to them, unfortunately, this government has made a worse result. Of course, demagogy has been the fact that nothing has been done in judicial and judicial reform for four years. Of course, it's a demagogue that nothing has been done on education reform for four years. Of course, demagogy when it comes to reducing the unemployment rate, and the number of unemployed people is the same. Of course, demagogy is when you say you will fight poverty, and in four years Serbia gets 150,000 more poor. Of course it's demagogy when you say you're going to fight for a better life, and you're cutting wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52573	Time. Thank you. MP Zoran Babic... (Marko Djurisic, from the site: Replica? Well, I didn't say a word to him, not a word of SNS. ) Allow me, Mr. Djurishic, to let me say something as chairman without you jumping nervously. Mr. Babic, you signed up, but you don't have the basis for the replica, because Mr. Djurisic didn't say one word... (Zoran Babic, from the place: And whom did he address, to you, to Mr Dacic or the Government of the Republic of Serbia?) ) Mr Babiću, Mr Dacic has come forward as a representative of the speaker for the word, and you as head of the parliamentary group can get the right to reply, but neither SNS nor the party president has been mentioned. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Then Djurisic spoke of himself? ) Well, I think Djurisic was just talking about his government and the successes of the government he was in. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52574	I wanted to end up on behalf of the promoter, or prime minister, to round up the debate and invite you to support Mr. Djordjevic. But now that there have been polemics, so I don't know if there will still be controversy in the follow-up, I do, really, listening to all these objections being made by the opposition, which is so little now in parliament that it seems to me that there are so few in the electoral body. Their presence in parliament may be reduced accordingly. When you hear all these remarks, you think the situation in this country is completely different from the political reality that it is. If all of this is as you say, so how is it possible that this government, after so many unpopular measures, moves, difficult situations, still has a half majority not only in parliamentary terms, but also in the electoral body in all public opinion research? That's why I was talking at the beginning, listening to you all this time, all these months you've been asking for elections. That's why I told Mr. Vukic and I have spoken to you – don't touch the bear, don't turn out to have less results in the election than you've had so far. In that sense, I'm really not surprised at this kind of discussion and at the very end, because we've come to an end and then we're back to the question of whether it's demagogy, it's not demagogy. You know, the results are those that show whether the government was successful or not, and not just the results of economic measures, the position our country has in the international community, the progress we have made in European integration. You say it's been four years since the country won candidate status. That's right. But how did we get candidate status? I'm talking again as someone who took part in it. We got it by promising that our people signed and promised something about Kosovo, which we later said we didn't actually promise. Mr. Bogdanovic knows that by getting candidate status, and later we came into a very difficult situation not to be credible international partners. That was the point. Why four years? In four years, we opened negotiations and opened the first chapters, not because we were not technically and politically prepared, but because there was a problem in implementing the Brussels Agreement on the part of Pristina. And today we have such an obstruction and therefore these remarks that we are now the slowest in European integration are absolutely without any basis. I am sure and I can say, as president of the Socialist Party of Serbia who entered this government as a coalition with the United Pensioners of Serbia, Unity Serbia, that we are proud of the results that this government has achieved, that at the end of this term, since we have come to the moment when the Assembly will be disbanded, when the government will address the president and the president will decide to disband the Assembly and to hold elections, we thank these Governments and the Assembly all MPs and, of course, to wish for the newly elected minister to remain as long as possible, even in the next government. I'm sure the citizens in the election will best give an assessment and a score. No one has as much power as the people in the election. That's why it's important that what we've been up against for all these years, since 2012, our coalition... I think Serbia has achieved a historic step forward. I deeply agree with what the Prime Minister said last night when it comes to the future of our country. In the next election, we don't just decide whether one, the other, the third, or not, I don't know which party, although the choice is very small. It is decided on a strategic direction Serbia will go. Will Serbia go to the EU, will Serbia be stopped on the road, will Serbia be forced to give up that path, putting us ahead of an artificial dilemma whether Russia or Brussels or Washington? It is therefore very important what citizens will define and what concept they will accept. I think the concept that we have set here all these years, which is very clear, is that we are going to Europe, protecting our national interests, but keeping our brotherhood with Russia, China and other friendly countries, that we do not want to be a member of the NATO Pact, but also that we want the best possible relations with this military alliance because of regional stability and because of Serbs in Kosovo, to be a factor of peace and stability in the region, not to be in some wars and conflicts again. Even though the Socialist Party of Serbia is not in principle for early elections, what they were looking for is what they got. That is why I think it is important for the people to respond to the elections, and I am sure that it will be at least 60% or 70% of the parliamentary mandates between our two SNS coalitions, the SPS, the Unique Serbia, etc. I urge you once again to support the Prime Minister's proposal for a new defence minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52575	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I am finalising the debate on the proposal of a candidate for a member of the Government. In view of the fact that the National Assembly has completed the debate on the single item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule on 2 March 2016, starting at 17.15 p.m. as a day for voting on the proposal of a candidate for a member of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52576	Dear MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum exists in the voting day if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 163 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions to decide. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a proposal to elect members of the Government, before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 270(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on a proposal to elect members of the Government shall be decided in general by a secret vote unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I suggest the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the government to vote publicly. I am putting the motion to put the National Assembly on a proposal to elect a member of the Government to vote publicly. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 162, no six MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on a proposal to elect a member of the Government. Before moving to a roll call vote, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 9 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly elects members of the Government to vote most of the votes of all MPs, as set out in Article 15(2). The Government Act, the election of a member of the Government, is decided by the National Assembly as a whole. I also remind you that he is a member of 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and, according to that provision, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall call upon the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name, the MPs who approach the vote shall pronounce the word "no" or "no" or "no". The President shall repeat the name and the name of the MP who votes and his statement, or determines that he is absent or does not wish to vote. The Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement by the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. I now put to the vote the proposal to elect Zoran Djordjevic as defence minister and to approach the call of MPs, which will be carried out by one of the deputy secretary-generals. Here you go. I ask the Deputy Secretary General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in alphabetical order, the last name, and to record their statement. Here you go. Alexic Dragan - for Alekić Irena – for Anastasov Adriana - for Andrić Mirjana – for Antic Zoran – for Arsenović Konstantin – for Arsić Veroljub – for Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – absent Babić Vlado - for Babić Zoran – for Bajatović Dusan – absent Barišić dr Dragan – for Batić Olgica – absent Bauer Dr Ivan – for Bicevac Dr Muamer – for Berić Nebojša – for Besarović – for Božanović Prof. Dr Vesna – absent Bečić Igor – for Birmančević Boban – for Bićan Milen – for Bijenjan Milen – for Blažić Braniković – for Bogotinović – for Božović Balšan Balšan – absent Božnić Branko – for Brijek – for Birjan Branko – for Brijević Blakjan Žalić – for Žalić Žalić – for Vljaković from V. Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. Please a minute - two, just to match the results, we also declare an oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52579	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović and Jasmina Obradovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on employees in Autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend today's session by Dr Kori Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Natalija Pavlovic Šinović and Saša Mogić, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Milos Popovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Zoran Babić, Stefana Miladinović, Miroslav Petronijevic, Neđo Jovanovic, Siniša Maksimović, Marko Djurisić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić, Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Marković, Balša Bozović, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Pek, Anamarija Vič, Laslo Varg, Milorad Mijatović, Nenadjan Čanić, Bojan Čač, Bojan Kostić, Pastrjan Žalić, Pastić, Pastić, Past. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as from the Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. On behalf of the head, the name of the member and member of the 1st amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and together Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the member and member of the 2nd amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićevic and Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Milosav Petronijevic, Stefana Miladanovic and Neđo Jovanovic together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52580	Dear President, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Boris Tadic – SDS, ZS, has submitted an amendment to Article 11, which provides that in Article 11 at the end of the sentence, the point is deleted and the words "if the provisions of this law are not different". The legal solution given in this Article suggests that in paragraph 1 it shall contain a norm which shall refer to the application of the law governing salaries, fees and other receipts of officials. We have proposed by the amendment to provide that the provisions of the bill on the salaries of officials apply only if a particular issue is not regulated differently by this law. In response, i.e. the reasons for not accepting the amendments, the amendment is not accepted because salaries, fees and other receipts of officials are made in accordance with the specific law and other regulations governing the reception of officials. With our solution, we have not derivated this way at all, but we refer to this law, the special law, and the fact that if it is otherwise solved, it means that we do not see why it would not be accepted. I think it would be a more cellular solution the way we explained it, but it's your right not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52581	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Dr Blagoje Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52582	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic. The SDS, the U.S., submitted an amendment to Article 12, where we add a new position of 4 after Article 3, which reads: "if a functioner in Article 3 is not able to return to the employer's place of employment where he was assigned to the election, appointment, or appointment, because of the termination of that enforcement post, the employer has the right to be deployed to another post that fulfils these conditions. The existing position 4 becomes point 5. The explanation is that why would someone be guarding someone's execution site? Please, all workers have rights, you are, and I will read to you more precisely what you have said, that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the consequences of the termination of the work of officials in office are governed by the provisions of Article 54. It would also be unacceptable for an employee who has been placed in the position of "preserving" an executive post to cease that function. I don't think that's right, because even at that executive function that someone's put on, so he went to perform some other function, that man is in the interest of society doing that job, and the amendment solution that we've made to have him deploy to someone else. So we didn't prejudge that he returned to the same place if it was abolished, but at least to be in that rank and in that sense it continued to function. This is how you get a debilitative measure that is chosen to perform that function in the interest of society destimulate to accept that kind of function. I don't think that's right because we all came from somewhere and those jobs are still at work, I don't. But I think it's detimulative for someone to lose a good job, or a job that's accepted and be deployed anywhere. And this does not guard his place of work, but preserves his right to return to proper function after his function.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52583	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52584	I think this is the important shade we're talking about. So, you're not keeping a job at some point you said it's not a quiet job, it's a steady working relationship. The rest of the working relationship has been regulated by the Labour Act, by general regulation, and you would change its nature here, you would go one step further to guard, to keep some job. Restricting working relationships means that the employer will try and have the right to return, but you can't take that public interest he went to to say so, to ensure, to impose on the employer the existence of something that may no longer be able to provide. I mean, it remains at the end to determine, if you want in court, if any rest has really been done in the best interest. It's a nature that, the nature of the concept of rest is regulated by the general law and makes sense, the balance is in two interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52585	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52586	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 14 paragraph 7 is amended in our proposal, and it reads: "The Officer ceases working relationship on the day of termination of office, that is, on the day of the termination of the right to pay, if that right has been achieved. “ Our explanation for such an amendment is that the amendment provides for a change of attitude 7, according to the bill on the day of termination of office, and a working relationship. However, the official may exercise the right to a three-year salary fee, with an exceptional duration of six months from the day of termination of the post. At that time, when exercising the right to compensation, pension insurance rights are exercised, i.e. taxes and labour contributions are paid. If the employment relationship were to cease on the day of termination, taxes and contributions could not be paid during the payment of the salary. I think this amendment makes sense because it defines more precisely the status of someone whose function has ceased, that we are not talking about the case of Members of Parliament or, since this is about local self-government and autonomous province, that there are jobs for which the official is entitled after the exercise of his duties and the termination of his duties for a certain period of working relationship, i.e. the payment of taxes and contributions, which is what his internship counts for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52587	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52588	Working relationship and paying wages are not the same thing, they go parallel with each other and there is absolutely no need for this, or it would be the wrong amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52589	Thank you. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title of Glava, Glava, Title and Article 16 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Chapter III and the title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and article of the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together submitted to the 17th amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 17 speaks of responsibility for the work of officials, so that Article 17 of the Bill says: “The official is responsible for the legality, professionality and effectiveness of his work. ” We had our amendment to add a new position on 2nd, which reads: “No one should influence an official to do or do something contrary to the regulations. “ We suggested this supplement. We thus agreed with the Law on civil servants, by adding an explicit ban on the exercise of influence on an official to act contraryly, i.e. to act against his duties. Your explanation shows that you are calling for article 30. The bill which states that an official is obliged to act in accordance with the Law on the Rules of Conduct and the Code of Conduct in the context of his job, as well as to take all measures and actions that enable legal and physical persons to exercise their rights and other regulations guaranteed rights and interests. We're not actually talking about an officer here in terms of his work, but we actually think we should further protect him as an official person.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52591	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Blagoje Bradić, together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 17a. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministerial Committees, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group has tabled, among other things, an amendment proposing that Article 17a be added to the title above the members. The title would read – Ban of Privileges and Deprivings; and Article 17a would read – It is forbidden to empower or deny officials in his rights and duties, especially because of racial, religious, gender, national or political origin, or sexual orientation, gender or birth identity or any other personal property. This amendment proposed adding a new member, which prohibits discrimination against officials. This article shall be attached to Article 7. Law on civil servants, complementing sexual orientation, gender and gender identity. The amendment was rejected by reason that the proposal for a law in a clear and unequivocal manner provides for a prohibition of discrimination on all these grounds, and does not need to be particularly highlighted. Also, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination is a comprehensively regulated issue of discrimination on all grounds and calls for Article 19, which also provides for a prohibition of discrimination. First, Article 19 prohibits discrimination, i.e. providing equal conditions but in employment, and this Article 17a speaks of working relationship status. Secondly, we know that this is foreseen by the law on the prohibition of discrimination, but we know how many problems there are in application of that law and many other laws that have been passed, how much discrimination there is, how much there is a lawsuit for mobbing now that it has just been spoken and started to talk publicly and to react to employees. We think it would be very celibate if it were in this law as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52593	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52594	One might want to underline how important the fight against discrimination is, but on the other hand, you have one unique legal system and a problem that is problematic, which is being solved in a new way and which is new to our society in such a way that you will, I say, be able to create even more problems if you start, if you open more ways or more paths to treat this problem. I think we all need to understand clearly that the law prohibiting discrimination must be respected. He rightly and equally prescribes for all in society a ban on discrimination, and therefore he should be our sacred place in this matter. I don't think it's a good idea to repeat and in some way open the door to issues that are in one place, clearly regulated, start maybe and maybe a little differently maybe regulate in places where they don't belong. So if there's a problem with the law on the ban on discrimination, it would have to happen there, and that's how we point everything to solve it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52595	The word has been given by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52596	I just wanted to explain that there's no other way to solve here, just to strengthen those provisions of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, because, unfortunately, he still had a bad life in our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52597	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic, together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of the name and the new member of 19a. Does anyone want a word? At the title of the head, head and title and Article 20 of the amendment, the MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Together, MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 27th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 28th of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? On the head, the title and article of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52598	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 31 reads - the official is obliged to carry out the executive's oral order unless he considers that the order is contrary to the rules or rules of the profession, which tells the manager and that its execution can cause damage, which he declares to the manager in writing. Our amendment essentially refers to the manner of communication and submission, i.e., the request written for non-execution of orders and votes – the official is required to carry out the oral order of the manager unless he considers that the order is contrary to the regulations or rules of the profession or that its execution may cause damage, which he declares in writing without delay to the manager, etc., etc. We have been given an explanation that the amendment is not accepted because the urgency of the conduct of the officers in connection with the execution of the order is meant, so there is no need for particular emphasis. This isn't about speed, it's about the way and what's more important, which I'd like to point out, so that direct manager can deny oral warnings. We believe that a written warning protects the interest of the work that is done and avoids the damages that may arise. So here's the way, not the speed. I don't think you understand, so please consider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52599	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52600	Yeah, maybe the explanation isn't clear to the end. The bottom line is that it's complicated for you to now order that every time someone has to say something isn't by the book, they have to do it in writing. We do, nothing prevents the perpetrator from doing it if necessary, but the bottom line is he really has to when it's possible to cause damage. It's just surgery, basically. It's too complex a matter to go into every step of the way you suggested it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52601	According to the amendment, the word has been made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52602	It's not too much, given the responsibility and seriousness of the situation. Your manager may deny that he has orally warned you that he has given such an order to a worker if damage occurs. The only protection for the worker is that he has a written document, or proof that he warned about it. It's your right not to accept it, but it's absolutely not a conviction and you're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52603	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted the title and article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 32nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52604	Thank you. Article 32 speaks of transfer and says: “The official is obliged to accept the appropriate place of employment to which he is permanently or temporarily transferred under the provisions of this law. ” We have attached the amendment to this article, because we believe that the transfer of officials can only be carried out with the consent of officials, unless explicitly provided otherwise. If a solution to this bill under which an official is obliged to accept the transfer is accepted, and the provisions governing the transfer are not sufficiently accurate, we think it would open up the possibility of abuse. You're refusing our amendment and saying it's about exceptional situations when a clerk is moving to another post because of the need for work, so he doesn't need his consent. The transfer of officials is part of the authority of the manager to organise the process of work. Also, the transfer involves transfer to an appropriate workplace, and for this reason no consent is required for officials. We disagree, of course, and we think you should accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52605	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52606	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, this is one of those members who stands by the law and who, I'm quite sure, will be a way of getting some people out of work. As you have defined that an officer is obliged to accept the appropriate position to which, according to the provisions of this law, he was permanently or temporarily transferred, we could see in practice in previous years how he was implemented. I think it was the municipality of Kursumli, when it was seeking to remove politically unfavourable people whether they were in the administration or an organ in Kursumlia, I don't remember any more, when the new SNS came and moved people with college diplomas to clean up the park and explained it to the need for work. You are now putting such an unspecified member and the obligation of an employee to accept the transfer you are opening the door practically to fire people. So, that clerk who won't or wants to accept it, and I'm sure, unfortunately, the practice in the future will show it, based on this member, will lose his job. Our amendment should prevent and disable it, the self-will of the executive. Your argument that it is possible only to move someone to a suitable workplace is very problematic, because you know that at the end of the line there can be a job in a state body to invent, so it moves, it seems to me that the town of Leskovac has 70 and some villages, 120 kilometers away from one end of Leskovac municipality, and it can move to work perhaps in a meat office to which it should travel 50 and more kilometers, and then it does not allow the right to compensation for transportation and that employee all and that it will, it can't work in that place, because it would probably cost him half a salary. Then it's a condition for someone to get fired from work. The whole law, in our opinion, is often written to drive fear among employees, to turn them into listeners to party leadership. I found it interesting to announce at the Public Media Service our debate tonight, where a journalist made a lapus, and perhaps not, by announcing that this law speaks of politicisation and administration in the public media service log. This law, according to us, is now leading to politicization, the possibility that party leadership municipalities can manipulate and abuse this law clean up precisely for them of inadequate personnel and, what we will have, it will not be an effective, well-motivated state administration aimed at doing business. We'll have party employees who only listen to their party leaders and don't do the job that citizens expect of them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52607	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52608	I have to say because of the viewers and the citizens who listen to this discussion, that this discussion of yours is a complete dissuasion of what is the essence of this law and that is exactly what we see when we look at this member. This same solution exists in the Law on Civil Servants, which was adopted in 2005, is being implemented since 2006, since then there has been excessive employment growth in the state administration. So it has nothing to do with the intention of rationalizing anything. The aim of this article is to ensure that the national administration, i.e. working in local administration, the AP and local level, be in the service of citizens, or the purpose for which the organisation is organised. You can't refuse to be transferred to an appropriate workplace, if necessary, in order for the organization to work better. Therefore, your discussion does not stand at all. On the contrary, this law is passed to protect officials when it comes to the professionality of their work, and yet the purpose of these administrations is to produce a service, not to keep employees as they wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52609	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52610	I thank you, Chairman. Without the intention of causing any controversy, I would only take one position that binds myself to basic labour institutions, the basic legal institute. First of all, any employee, in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act, so in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Civil Servants and Peasants, has a sanction in case of non-acceptance of the settlement. What does that mean? This means that, if it receives a solution to the deployment and refuses to deploy, the sanction is to terminate the employment relationship, i.e. the cancellation of the labour contract. Accordingly, the transfer, as defined in Article 32, implies the exact same sanction. I do not doubt the fact that they were or have not been on certain local self-governments, as they stand out, but it is doubtless the legal consequence of which I have now pointed out that in the event of not accepting the schedule to an appropriate workplace that must be in line with the expertise, in accordance with the knowledge and competences and everything else that the law has prescribed, automatically triggers sanctions for the termination of the employment contract, i.e. the termination of the employment relationship. It's something that's essentially a legal explanation, so we don't get into any other controversy that's perfectly unnecessary. I, in principle debate, have pointed out something that is possible in the subsequent provisions of this law that, through the interpretations of the units of local self-government, causes certain problems, but I would not now discuss it until we come to these provisions of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52611	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52612	Dear Chairman, it's a good thing we didn't get into these late nights, so there's probably more people who can watch and hear. I'm almost sure this member will be abused in the future. Perhaps it wasn't your intention when you passed this law and we filed our amendment with a desire to prevent the abuse of the transfer institutes so that someone with political or perhaps for some other reason would be accounted for. We regret that you did not accept this amendment, and here is the time before us to show who was right and whether this ideal world you're talking about, explaining your reasons for such a solution, really exists in Serbia or if Serbia is some other country with much bigger problems than it seems to you in the government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52613	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoje Bradic together. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52614	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 36 regulates the respect of working time and attitude 1 is fine and says – the official is obliged to respect the working time of the employer. The position 2 is – if prevented from working, the official is obliged to inform the direct manager of reasons no later than 24 hours after the creation of the reason. Our MP group felt that this position was incomplete because it does not define the precise way of notifying the direct director of prevention for work, and the 24-hour deadline is too short in case the official is prevented from working, because he is ill, perhaps being. finds in the hospital and is personally objectively prevented from reporting, so the addition of this article is proposed as provided for by the amendment, i.e. A certificate of prevention or notification shall be provided by members of the household and shall also be regulated when the official is living alone and shall be objectively prevented from reporting within such a short period of time. In addition, it is difficult to prove whether or not the notification has been made, and a better solution is the delivery of the certificate, because the notification can be made by phone and email and the question is how to prove afterwards that the employee has fulfilled that obligation and delivered the solution within 24 hours. The amendment is not accepted by reason that the solution provided for in Article 36(2), which provides that in the event of prevention for the work of an officer, it is required to notify the direct manager within 24 hours of the creation of the reason only the obligation of this notification, we have also talked about it, not the delivery of the certificate. In order to have certainty as to whether or not the notification has been made, we have foreseen confirmation. Other issues are said to be regulated by the Labour Act and there is no need for these amendments to be regulated. I just want to point out once again, I've said that several times when I talked about amendments, that it's normal for the position and the opposition to have different views on things and that's why we have amendments to the bill. If we didn't, we'd probably all be in one party, or we'd all have the same attitude, which is not the case, and it's not good that it is. We therefore submit amendments, because we want to correct the text of the law in accordance with our views, for the sake of citizens' well-being. So I ask some colleagues not to interpret our explanations of the amendment here as being against the amendments and not to publish at press conferences how we are against the law, because the vote shows how we finally vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52615	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52616	I'd like first to assure you that we have indeed, and I think you can see that from reason, we have carefully read every amendment. We also accepted amendments to the opposition, even in the case of DS, where they themselves didn't know if they were proposing to delete or repair a member. In two cases, they actually suggested something that really improved the legal norm, in our opinion, and we did. I must say, your parliamentary group has proposed a lot of amendments, and in some of them, in our opinion, there is a sincere intention to improve the regulation. But I would remind you that in this assembly a few days ago, we adopted a new Law on General Administrative Procedure, which we have in some way declared our intention to simplify in Serbia the rules on the conduct of the administration, not to go to some of the things that are meant to be written, which are simply logical, which are simply obvious. Here's a good example: the principle has to be that someone who works in the state service, if they don't come to work, comes up within 24 hours. If he really lived alone, if he really had a heart attack, there's no way of picking up, there's no way in three days, if he's so isolated, he'll find out, get rid of himself, no one's gonna punish him. At the very end of the line, such details as you have suggested can be regulated in sublaws, but we must go towards making the laws reasonable, that there is reasonable interpretation that we accept as a society. There are several of your proposals that don't go that way. Then repeating the standards that are already present in other laws is also considered to be not good practice. From that angle, as simple as possible, when someone wants to deal with discrimination, go to that law, when they want to inquire about the procedure employed in the administration of the Republic or local government, they go to the appropriate laws. It is simply one difference in approach, and we hope that over time we will convince everyone in Serbia that we are promoting our flexibility and the ability to meet the needs of citizens, because otherwise you get officers who literally interpret everything, that sometimes for the obvious thing they tell you that it can't be done, because in some regulation it writes something from when there was no computer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52617	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52618	Your Honor, I understood everything you said very well, because I worked for 19 years in the administration and I worked for 10 years as a lawyer, where I was a party in the administration, so I know from both sides how it works. And that's why I had some amendments that weren't accepted. In cutting deadlines with the General Administrative Procedure Act, you say – from earlier days, it is now modernized, computerized and could be much faster, but bureaucracy has stifled some attitudes and stuck to it. My colleagues who do the same in the administration, and me, we have some practical experience on the basis of which we have proposed these amendments. I am in favour of modernising the entire legal system and making it as simple as possible and easier to apply, but I simply don't think that the conditions for it are yet ripe for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52619	Thank you. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Dr Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52620	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, is one of the very important members and he can be a serious instrument in solving the problem of corruption, which is most often present in the authorities of the administration. That Article 37 says that "a clerk or a substitute is obliged to notify the manager in writing if there is a knowledge regarding the performance of the job that corruption in the body in which he works is carried out". It is further said: “The official or the undersigned under Article 1 has enjoyed protection since the date of notification of the written notice, in accordance with the law. ” However, the amendment foretold that after that point and what I read, a part of the text was added at the end of the sentence, which reads, "which regulates the protection of alarmers". Please, you've answered that it's already been regulated. In order not to pass legal regulations that satisfy the general form, and not the essence, we need to be aware that the concept of an alarmer, which has been almost in use with us, is a very sensitive thing and that who should accept such a, usually honest man who has learned to live and work from his work, and that applies to them. So, you should enjoy the provoking of a serious protection, and that protection is greatly improved by means of this reasoning, that is, the law's position, because it explicitly refers to the alarmer. The general item is for someone who doesn't have to understand and doesn't need to know, but in this way they would very explicitly stimulate someone who has knowledge of it, to get information in the first text that they would be protected as an alarmer. From the explanation you gave, it's a clean job here. I think you'd have more effects in applying this law and suppressing corruption if you added this sentence that we suggested, which doesn't change the essence of what you wrote in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52621	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the title, title and article of the 39th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the title and article of the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted to the title and article of the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the 41st amendment. Yes, the 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 41 speaks of the consent for additional work, where we have proposed to our amendment to delete Articles 3 and 4 which regulate the exception to the rules that do not require the employer's consent for additional work, when it comes to scientific research, publishing works and work in cultural and artistic, humanitarian, sports and similar associations. The draft law provides that an employer may prohibit this type of additional work if it makes it impossible or makes it difficult for officials to work, that is to say, harm the reputation of the employer, or create the possibility of conflict of interest or affect the impartiality of the employees' work. We note that there are no criteria on which it can be determined that such work is difficult, damages the reputation of the employer or creates the possibility of conflict of interest or affects impartial work. In addition, this type of action, even under the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, does not require the Agency's consent when it comes to officials, is then asked – why the employer could then deny this type of additional work. In your explanation, the key words are that this is not meant in general, but to think about individual cases. However, our suggestion is that they are not closer to certain criteria on the basis of which someone will be banned from additional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52623	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? On the title, title and article of the 44th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic and Jovan Markovic together submitted to the title and article 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? At the title of Glava, Glava, title and member of the 47th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comić together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 47th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varg. Does anyone want a word? The National MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamarija Vicek together submitted the title and article 47. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The title and article of the 47th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? The title and article of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? Members of the 48th amendment were submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 51st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? The title and article of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoje Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52624	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, Article 52 speaks of reasons for the resolution, and says – the official is resolved from the position if his working relationship ends because of, so the list goes, the rightful sentence of a prison of at least six months and the final solution which has been given the disciplinary penalty of termination of the employment relationship, the final solution which sets out the assessment "is not satisfied with the extraordinary assessment, the implementation of the resolution initiative based on the measure of public publication of the recommendations, for the resolution given by the Anti-Corruption Agency, further, the official shall be resolved by the position and if the unit body responsible for its position accepts a public recommendation for the resolution of the city, i.e. the Public Protector of the Rights of the Citizens. We propose that this position is – The Body of the Local Self-Government Unit responsible for its position, accept a public recommendation for the resolution of the Protectors of the citizens of the province, the city, or the Municipal Protector of the Citizens. We have also extended this to the Regional Protector of Citizens, because we believe that, on his recommendation, an official's discharge should be carried out, so I ask you to reconsider our proposal and accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52625	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52626	As counterpart Bradic said, our amendment went to the expansion of this point to introduce the Citizens' Protector and Protector of the City and the City. I can accept the government's argument that the Province of Frankfurt has no authority to make a public recommendation and to say that I accept our mistake when we asked for it to be found in this amendment and in this member of the law, but here, I say, that's the result of the short time we had when we learned that this law would be on the agenda. I can't accept the part where you explain why the Protector of Citizens isn't put in place, it's meant as a republican institution, and you're calling for that to be already regulated by the Law on the Protector of Citizens and its powers. What do we have in practice? We have in practice that the Citizen's Protector, let's say, did make a recommendation for the resolution of the defence minister and some other officials, but also gave it to the head of the municipal police in Belgrade. Since these members of the municipal police as some private security guard defended interested media representatives to approach this phantom project "Belgrade on Water". The Belgrade mayor's reaction to the case was -- we will no longer have mothers, without any sanctions for a clearly established overrun in Belgrade's municipal police behaviour. It was just the tip of many events that the municipal police and scandals, which the municipal police of Belgrade were involved in -- beating up people who didn't have to pay for a ticket in the vehicles of city transport, harassing the poorest citizens who might be trying to sell some little things on the street that as much... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52627	Comrade Djurishich, get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52628	The theme is what happens in real life, and what these laws should regulate, but they fail to regulate. They fail to regulate, and I am somehow sure that if it stays the way the minister, or the government suggests that in some future and mayor of Belgrade or some other city or municipal level official, they will say – what kind of protection of citizens, thinking of a republican institution, there is no solution, he has nothing to say what I should do. I think you should have accepted this amendment, or you should have possibly suggested that we change it to be acceptable, but it wasn't done and it doesn't surprise me. This law I believe, like many others who have been passed in this term, will not regulate the situation in our country, in the administration. The problems that have been in place for years will continue, the problems this government has made for four years of poor work, but it is a good thing that these elections are going to go, which we are finishing this mandate tonight so citizens will be able to thank Alexander Vukic and his ministers for their efforts for so-called. A better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52629	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52630	By amendment, Mr. Chairman. I would also remind the MPs and citizens of the RS that the Institute of the Protection of Citizens has been introduced into our legislation and that from the moment the first assembly majority was introduced that had even considered in the National Assembly the report on the work of the Citizens' Protectors was a congregation majority made by the SNS. So much for how much someone from the former regime respected the Institute of Protectors before us. When you had the chance, you treated the Citizens' Protector in the same way as the Citizens' Protector said in the Small Hall of the House of the National Assembly, when he convinced him of what the Defence Minister then told him. When he said, "Well, do you think you are the true Protector of the people, so we chose you?" Now, this is the attitude towards the institution of the Protector of Citizens and how the former regime treated him. On the other hand, according to statistics that are transparent and public, 93% of all suggestions made by the Citizens' Protectors, the competent state authorities have corrected, that is, they have acted accordingly on these suggestions, although under the Law on the Protector of Citizens there is no mechanism for it to force the competent state authority. And how long ago was it? By what percentage can you boast, you who are now acting as attorneys of the Protector of the Citizens, the Protector of the Citizens? For what? By not adopting his reports here, they were squatting in the National Assembly in the manner of Mr Pavicevic. That didn't bother you. That was great. What percentage of his suggestions did you accept? Very small, and now you don't fit 93% of all suggestions. When you told him publicly, do you think you are indeed the Protector of the Citizens, so we chose you? Is that an understanding? Please don't do things, because we still have a memory that's much longer than it's been 22 months. I was a National MP in the eighth session when we passed the Law on the Communist Police. I was talking about the law at the time, opposed the law, because I think that some solution that is the majority of the assembly, the then assembly majority, which is now critical of the municipal police, which has brought the municipal police into the cities of Serbia, which has hired these people. Now they don't respond, but they think Serbian citizens are forgetting. Well, look at article 21. A law on the municipal police - a municipal police officer cannot sentence a person to a prison longer than, I think, six months, which means that a municipal police officer, as the former regime predicted, could be sentenced to a prison sentence of up to six months. Who can all be condemned and what kind of punishments are these, and what kind of act has been sentenced to prison for up to six months? Then what were you preparing, what kind of police, whose police, whose army, to protect? The party in power then? The change in the party, which changed the name of the party, the leader did not, remained the same, the thinking remained the same. You can't vote for everything you voted for, and I didn't vote for it, Mr. Arsic was also a national MP, neither did he vote for the Law on the Communist Police, you, gentlemen, who are now complaining about the municipal police, you did it. You hired these people. You gave them the chance that a municipal police officer could be sentenced to jail for up to six months. You voted for such solutions. So, what are we talking about? Someone gonna punish you for something you did? Well, it's okay. For four years, you can't wake up from a nightmare, that once you have to realize that you're responsible for something you've been doing, not to transfer everything to the burden of Alexander Vukic and SNS. We carried your burden of destroyed public finances, ruined privatisations, companies, states, institutions, everything. And now, even though we try to build all this out of the ashes, you say, "Why do you do it?" You who voted for those laws! Those of you who spoke to the Guardian of the Citizens, do you think that there is a true Protector of the People? We have chosen you. Those are the words of Dragan Sutanovac. Those of you who predicted that a municipal police officer could be sentenced to jail for up to six months. And it's not just for community police. Look at the Bank of America's Banks Act. Well, a bankruptcy manager can also dispose of property and be sentenced to prison for up to six months. These are all your solutions. Who were you preparing, who were you thinking and who were you hiring? Now the mayor of Belgrade is responsible. Now the Prime Minister is responsible. Now for what you voted for, for what you raised your hand for, the SNS is responsible. I am proud to say, after these 22 months, that I voted for more than 300 acts that we voted and adopted in this tenth assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I will have the same pride tomorrow and the day after, as in a few years and decades. Because these are the laws that allowed us to reduce the unemployment rate, to move from recession to development, to open the first chapters...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52631	Please, colleague Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52632	... to keep and to build a decent and normal society, to open 27 factories, as opened by the Prime Minister, and not to sell Miskovic's assets as a foreign investment. Don't think there's a short memory among Serbian citizens. Do not think that we, who were part of the National Assembly in both the eighth and the ninth and tenth times, will forget all that we have criticized you for then and for which we were against. Hey, convicted person to jail for up to six months, you predicted he could be a communal cop! You hired these people. You let them do this job the way they do. But you've done everything, but it's not your responsibility, but we'll do some populist things, which they beat up or I don't know what.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52633	Dear Grandmother, please come back for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52634	Please, I think this amendment and full support, Madam Vice President, you have why the government has refused such an amendment. The Serbian Progressive Party, of course, will not vote for such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52635	The People's MP Marko Djurisic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52636	Thank you, Chairman. We passed the Law on Community Police, but it's not... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Adopted, not brought. I don't know how to express myself so that you can understand and accept. But Sinisa Mali, as mayor of Belgrade, sent the municipal police to ban journalists from accessing the construction site of Berograda on Water. Is it written somewhere in the law that the authority of the municipal police is? It's not whether the municipal police should exist or not, it's how they deal with it and manage it and that's the problem. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: According to the law. Well, it's not in accordance with the law, as the Guardian of Citizens said, and he confessed to the mayor and said, "I won't do it anymore, my mother." It's your explanation and your way out of this situation. As for the Citizens' Protector, we have adopted here his 2013 report in this mandate, in this majority, in a way that the chairman did not give him the right to speak. The chairman didn't let him speak, the man came out of this room. And where's his 2014 report? Is he still squatting? Knocks like a lot of other things out there, like you said you heard some stuff. So, don't talk about whether the citizens know anything or don't know anything, whether they remember what kind of memory they have. It's enough for the citizens to look at their pockets to see where they live and how they live, and I believe that's why they'll say goodbye to you in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52637	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52638	First, it is not true, Mr. Chairman, that the Citizens' Protector did not speak in the National Assembly when the 2013 report was adopted. His address, the last address in that day, took, I remember, 38 minutes. So look at the stenogram, we now have open sessions of parliament and they're being transferred to public service, so look just before you say these things, which really have nothing to do with the truth. On the other hand, those communal cops who did what they did were disciplined, as far as I know, I know they were on shifts, but what did you gentlemen do when the police, not communal, but the real police killed Ranko Panic? Based on what law did you do it? You trampled him with your boots. And you've put the human life out. Did anyone at least give that family an apology? Is there a procedure in place? Did anyone answer while you were running both the police and the state and the government and everything? No, you didn't like it. It's a member of another party. What's he doing at that rally against your government? If you do, you need to kill him, because he's at a rally against your government. Based on what law? Who answered? Did at least one of you blush when a man lost his life? You didn't even lift your finger to determine the answers to that disgusting crime. The fact that by your system of values, if he doesn't think the same way you do, he should be killed. Shame on you for that. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Come on, you monkey.) Shame on you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52639	Comrade Giursich, please. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: This is a reminder. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Shame on you, who are you calling here for murder? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52640	I thank my esteemed colleague for his kind words. It speaks more of him than of me and it will be neither the first nor the last thing that is so hateful, full of anger. Here, that proves what I mean differently. Well, don't you think he's in a position to step on me again with those same boots as Ranko Panic, so that's what he would do.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52641	It's time, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52642	There, that way and that's the system of values and that's thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52643	Thank you. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Shame on you. You're a disgrace. I think it's inappropriate what you've done. I think it's very inappropriate to call a man an ugly name and animal names very rude. (Alexandar Martinovic, from the scene: If I had said that at the time of Gordana Komic, I would have been hanged on the terraces. ) I also ask you to join my colleague Martinovic, this session will be over in about a few hours, perhaps a little more. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You remember what it was like. I remember perfectly how it was, and I beg you, that at least because this is the last session in this session, we all expect you to act, all fellow Members, to behave as politely as possible. Now we've got damage to the Rules of Procedure. First, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52644	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Mr. Chairman, this isn't the first time in the last five days that we've been called from this parliamentary group by various names. There were cowards, we were lying like dogs, and this time we said two words - you monkey! I believe that no one can take anything from us unless we allow it. We don't want to let anyone humiliate us with insults, because we can't be humiliated by anyone without our permission, but I ask you in the future, since this is one of the last sessions, as far as I believe, to make sure that these insults still have a certain measure. I think, even though I'm against punishment, if the conditions had matured to give some kind of punishment, some kind of warning, that wouldn't have happened in the future. I'd advise the apes to see if they're standing in front of a mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52645	Comrade Rističević, everything was in place until this last one. But when it comes to insults, I think, do I have a slightly higher tolerance threshold or anything, colleague Risticevic, but they can't insult me. I can't be offended, so please have the same threshold of tolerance. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52646	I thank the chairman. I will join my colleague Marijana Risticevic. I'm advertising the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I'm not gonna repeat these words. I totally agree with his exposure and I'm asking you not to allow this. The entire National Assembly has heard this insult. So, it's inadmissible, it can be thrown and it's forbidden, but this is the way to throw away, in such ugly words, I beg you, these are really the conditions to warn the MP who insulted our deputy club chief Zoran Babic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52647	Same explanation as Mr. Rističević's. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52648	The Honorable Chairman, you have probably noticed that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and now that you have allowed the same member of the Rules of Procedure to be advertised twice, twice 107. But I am not advertising the Rules of Procedure for this, but I am advertising Article 106 because you have allowed Mr. Babic to talk for about ten minutes just past the point. So, you were supposed to stop him and it wouldn't have happened what happened now. What has been happening in this House for two years, or four years, as far as the SNS is concerned. We listen to eight or how many years of the same story. Now there was a story about the municipal police, you just didn't say that in the meantime you founded your own party police and that in the meantime you voted for Hasim Tachi. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52649	As I told you to insult me, you can't, and if you have an ugly word, you can light everyone up, don't touch the other messengers, please. If you were in an O.R. like you weren't, you'd know that the discussions between colleagues Djurisic and Babic are interrelated. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I was in the hall. You weren't in the O.R. (Janko Vesenović, from the scene: I've been here all afternoon, since 12.00 hours I've been here. All right, I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. Do you want to make the Parliament's statement in the voting day? (Yes) He will plead. What do you want? Would you like to come in and apologize to your colleague Babic for calling him a monkey? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52650	Of course, the Honorable Chairman, that I reacted to the claim that I killed someone or wanted someone killed. Unlike Mr Babic, in my political career, I have never been in a political organization that desired anyone's death, and I don't know if he can say that. And if he apologizes to me for making such a claim, calling me a murderer, I will most certainly apologize to him for what I said to him. I may not have a hard cheek like you, and I don't allow anyone to accuse me of wanting someone dead, because I've never done that, 25 years of politics. And if someone makes such lies and charges for me, of course I will defend myself in every way possible. So, am I ever going to cross the border? I'm willing to bear the consequences of such an act, but I won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52651	Apparently, fellow Djurisic, you and your colleague Babic didn't understand each other. My colleague Babic never said anything like that, I would certainly have stopped him and even warned him. As I understood his discussion, none of the political parties of the regime at the time have been fenced since the death of Ranko Panic, and therefore he called the former government and the former regime. Since my colleague Babic and I have the same political biography, we were never in any political party wishing for someone to die. The word is made by the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52652	Dear Chairman, I think you have rightly injured Article 108 of Position 9 where you did not give the previous speaker a warning, and he has now and in his previous statement confirmed that he is ready to hold a consensus on what he has said, and he has spoken an ugly word. In doing so, what he was reacting to, Mr Babic did not say at all, but someone else, but according to Article 108(2), says, because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly can give a warning, taking words or moving away from the session, and I ask you to give Mr Đurisic a warning according to this injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52653	I've already explained why I didn't give the warning. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has the people's messenger Zoran Babic, right to replication. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52654	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. I didn't expect you to be right, and in that year, in those days when Ranko Panic lost his life, because they killed him, trampled him with their boots, the same police that ran the former regime government, we didn't hear from the president of the state, nor from the Prime Minister of the Interior, one simple and small -- sorry, his mother, his sister, his family. Who I am, and what my victim is to the sacrifice he had to give to the man who gave his life, so that someone in this room could give me an apology. I didn't expect it, because if they didn't have enough courage, enough size to give me an apology for the lost human life, for the most valuable instructions one -- I'm sorry, that they don't ask that family if they need anything, if they can do anything, why would they give me an apology, and I'm giving you an apology, my dear friends, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I'm giving you an apology because you had to do tonight, but in the previous 22 months to listen to the canon of hate, the beauty of those things and those words that were sent to us both "stods" and "super" and "peaks" and here now "mons" and anything, I don't think the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve it. I'm proud to be the first among the equals in the SNS parliamentary group, who hasn't spoken a word like that, and perhaps for something that I'm here and the strongest in all of that, I've had the courage and the size and humanity to stand up and make an apology, unlike those who don't say a word... ..
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52655	Time, fellow Grandmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52656	... . But even for a life lost, he won't give an apology, but that says more about them than we do to the honest people of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52657	The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52658	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, allow us, will you give us an explanation for what Mr Babic is now, he held the final word, is that the final word of the defendant? (Zoran Babiæ, from the scene: the accused? Shame on you. ) So he told the citizens of Serbia, in the final word that you allowed him, please allow all MPs to give their final word. Of course this would be the prosecutor's final word, and the prosecutor is an entire people, and the defendant is Mr. Babic and his crew, who is this Serbia... .. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52659	Mr. Vesenović, you are a long MP and if you had a political party you would learn that your colleague Babic was entitled to a replica and at the moment you waved to some book that should be represented by the Rules of Procedure, I warned my colleague Babic to finish with a two-minute replica. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52660	The dignity, article 107, is injured, Mr. Chairman, although I am trying to get this session, I do not know from which nervousness and which hatred of the MPs of the former regime, I am introducing some normal flows, and there have been discussions both Mr. Giric and Mr. Risticevic. But now the extra-armed dignity of the National Assembly, when one MP took over as prosecutor, took over the role of judge. Well, you see, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what would happen if that team in the first, second, third and fourth columns, I don't know how many more there are, if our society were to return to position and to Serbia again. You see who would judge you, see who would sue you, see what he would sue you for, see what kind of punishment all of us would be, see the threats that we've been given, from the "monkey" so over some "gologous island", to which he would send us all Mr. Veselinović, all those who don't think like him, like Pajtic, as the whole "team", as in those columns, I don't know how many there are, but to energize the dignity of the National Assembly, to harm the constitutional order, and the judiciary is an independent branch of power, and we see that Mr. Veseinović, was both cadiya and prosecutor, and would be all with what right? He can do it within his one plus one association, but he can't work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Chairman, and you have to warn him of something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52661	I understand enough, you've explained enough to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I believe there was no injury, because I tried in time to stop Mr. Veselinović. The title and article of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana HasanovicKorać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 53rd amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Article 53. The bill's proposal speaks of the establishment of the termination of work in position and interpreting and reading this article, we have come to the conclusion that it is primarily of a declarative character and the amendment we have proposed to amend both Article 1 and 2 and that the member obtains a constitutional character, i.e. that, with the disposition of the solution, determines the day of termination of work in place, and that the reasons why he ceases his work in office are contained in the explanation. According to the bill, the argument also contains the date and the reasons. Since it is already provided for in point 1 of the view that the termination of the employment relationship is determined by the solution, it is necessary to establish, in our opinion, the date of termination of the employment relationship. If the solution given in the draft law were to be maintained, it would mean that the working relationship at the position ceases at the time of the law on the day of fulfillment of the reason, and that the solution is made within 8 days at the latest, from the day the working relationship has already stopped, creating practical problems, because we know from practice that, if it is adopted within eight days, it can be eight days, then problems are created in practice, that the person concerned should be checked out, both at the Pension Fund and at the Health Insurance Fund. In an explanation for not accepting the amendments, it is also called for that the standard is a declarative character, and that therefore it should not stand for the date of termination, so we have understood it from the interpretation and therefore we have submitted the request and I say again, for purely practical reasons, for further procedures, which follow after the decision and the check-out of that person, we suggest that a constitutional character be introduced and that the date of termination of the working relationship stands in disposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52663	Thank you. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 54th amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr Blagoja Bradic together. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52664	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, MP Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZ, has submitted an amendment to Article 54, where we have provided that a position of 8 is added after Article 7 – the official at the post ends the working relationship on the day of termination of work at the post, that is, on the day of termination of the right to pay if the right has been achieved. The amendment provides for the addition of a member of 54th by precise determination of when the working relationship of the officer ends. In the explanation we received for Article 54, just a moment, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for which Amendment 24 is rejected. I don't see why the precision of such a term is problematic. This precisely determines when a working relationship ends, which means that it makes it easier for all those involved in this process to and who has stopped, to whom the function has ceased, or to do this job, to act on their own initiative whether it will have security, if it belongs to it from three months as a social character, how you have explained or will be referred to another job that will link the internship that ends with the previous one. You've answered that it's understood, and that's not understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52665	Thank you. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 56th amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr. Blagoja Bradic together. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 56 speaks of the appointment of officials and officials in the position of the Autonomous Region, the appointment of the Head of Administration and the Officers in the position. We believe that this article should be deleted because we think that it is necessary to precisely regulate the rules on appointment deadlines and the appointment of officials in place. So, I mean, this member of us shouldn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52667	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52668	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, this entire member has many indeterminate norms in it. So, in the first position, you say - until the staff is appointed to the position in the autonomous province in case he is not set up and unable to perform his duties for more than 30 days, the authority responsible for his appointment may appoint the acting official. Further, the bigger one can set. So, we don't think it's a good thing that there are such undefined things in the law, where you're introducing the possibility of setting up a performer, not a clear obligation, because you said if there isn't a chief, there's no competition, it can't function within 30 days. I don't know why it stands "can"? It's supposed to be "must." We asked, we didn't want to fix this member, but we asked for his removal from the desire to indicate that it was necessary clearly, and we suggested that some amendments there further, defined situations related to the implementation of competitions, deadlines and similar things. These things, when they are in the law with this "can", "can't", "will-not" are bad and do not bring legal certainty into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We think that if this member stays, and it will obviously remain that it is only a confirmation of our thesis that this law will not introduce security and order, but will just leave volunteerism and party governance in local self-government and autonomous province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52669	Thank you. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 57th amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. National MP Zoran Babic submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Members of the 59th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Granny. National MP Zoran Babic has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a member of 59. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you, Mr. Granny. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 60th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 61st amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 62nd amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 63rd amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 64th amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 65 of the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 66th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 67th amendment. At the title of the head, head, title and article of the 68th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 69th amendment. Members of the 69th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Zoran Babic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. There's a word from MP Nejo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52670	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, and as a member of the Committee on Justice, given that I took part in the Committee's work in formulating and defining this amendment, I am expressing my satisfaction primarily because of the understanding that the proposer put forward in relation to the proposed amendments, a team before the initiative to submit these amendments came from the SPS parliamentary group and my esteemed colleague, MEP Stefana Miladinovic. It is also a pleasure that the SNS coalition partner has accepted this amendment text with the existing content, in which it significantly improves the quality of the law in which it was necessary. In principle, we have also pointed out the need to normise in the law but also systematise something that was unfortunately missed at the time, which is that, in addition to what the cabinets include as parts of certain professional services or assistive services for operational affairs, which are in terms of training the better functioning of all the managers, which means the place or position, or the function of the president of the City Assembly, that we have now achieved what means the integrity of the law, a comprehensive solution, one that implies that the President of the City Assembly also has a complete cabinet that will carry out those tasks that are within the borders and the authority of the President of the City Assembly, primarily thinking about Belgrade as a city that deserves it, requires that this need be met, which you have both done and great satisfaction and great gratitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52671	Thank you. National MP Siniša Maksimovic submitted to the 69th amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 70th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 71st amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Mr Blagoja Bradic together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52672	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 71 regulates the test work and says in point 1 – the test work is mandatory for all persons who have not established a working relationship in the body of the Autonomous Province, a unit of local self-government or a state body. We have suggested that new positions 2 and 3 are added after this attitude – the test work is also required for persons who previously established a working relationship in the body of the autonomous province, the unit of local self-government or the state body, so the work relationship stopped before the test run out. The time translated into the test work referred to in Article 2 shall be included in the total duration of the test work. The amendment proposed a solution to the situation when a person was in a working relationship and in the trial work, but the working relationship stopped before the test run out, so it did not complete the test work so that he could start a working relationship. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the principle of equality and accessibility of jobs can be questioned in this case, as well as for the reason that the test work is carried out to verify the ability to perform a job and not work in the administration at all. It was not our intention to violate the principle of equal access to jobs, nor was it contained in our amendment. Nowhere does it say that those who already have part of the trial work are favored. Everyone participates equally in this job. So, that statement of reason is not acceptable to us. As for this, I don't think it can be accepted for the reason that the probationary work is for a particular job, and not for working in the administration at all, I don't think there's much interference here, because management is, first of all, under the General Administrative Procedure Act, by office business regulations, and there are a whole series of common rules for every administration that anyone who creates a working relationship must first master over the specificities of a particular job. Well, if he's done one-third of the trial work alone, or half of it, I don't see why he can't specialize in the specificity of that job for the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52673	Thank you. Mrs. Widowsky, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52674	You can't be sure, and it would still be excessive regulation if we were trying to norm now whether the previous unfinished trial work was appropriate or not. It's simple, again to protect the efficiency of the state. We want the jobs where we deploy or hire people to be the ones who are best able to do the job and there is no reason not to treat everything equally with the concept of probationary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52675	Thank you. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52676	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member of the 72nd is a key member of the protection of workers' rights, or those who are trying to recruit themselves. Since it is practically flat artism today to find a job, regardless of qualifications, this should provide an opportunity to protect those who are engaged, who want to do this special protection for trial work. In Article 72, the probationary work of an officer shall be accompanied by his direct manager, who shall give the employer a written opinion on whether or not the official has been satisfied on the test work after the test work has been completed. We have added that the written opinion referred to in Article 1 shall be delivered to the official who has the right to deliver his opinion to the employer and in the following text we have added, in the end, to the final position that the official to whom the employment relationship has ceased for the reasons set out in Article 3, has the right to appeal for a solution which determines the termination of his employment relationship. In the explanation that you gave us to refuse this amendment, you wrote that the amendment is not accepted because the probationary work of officials, or satisfaction in the trial work, is a condition for establishing a working relationship, and for a non-satisfactory officer to stop working. That's not the question we were talking about. This is about protecting someone who has been on probation and on this trial work is who has assessed that he has not been satisfied, and who has not been satisfied, this can be trendy, especially in places where you have more workers on probation and that he does not have the right to practically appeal in that case. Nothing would change your mind about that, nor would it be an over-nod. I think it's very useful for those who are on probation to know and to remove any suspicion that he has not satisfied in the trial work, and this will be done by this amendment supplementing Article 72. I think you could consider and accept. It would be, above all, to the benefit of workers, or officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52677	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52678	I'd like to point out once again, this law is first of all made for professionalization, so, therefore, protection of employees, but we have to draw a line somewhere. Our administration is already overloaded by actions that are kind of self-serving. If you have an institute of probation, someone could make the argument you've been making, but how long are we gonna make it? We must also have some confidence that this system has produced managers who assess something and in the end line, it is simply a balance between the protection of employees and the protection of the interests of citizens that employees are not engaged all the time in the protection of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52679	Thank you. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52680	Madam Minister, you have absolutely not convinced me by your argument that in the way that you predicted the protection of workers' rights and as you said, why we should be dealing with the protection of workers' rights. I don't think you're right, because that direct manager who's following the test work is able to write what he says to his superior, i.e. to the employer, he is able to write in an explanation and to the person who did the test work, who was not accepted, but simply to say no. A vast space for corruption is left. So there's no one who can convince me not to. Believe me, I worked for eight years in local self-government. He who loses has the right to be angry and to get an explanation for it. This does not build trust in receiving officials, but thus promotes loyal ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52681	Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52682	Thank you. I also come from local self-government and I know this applies to professionalization. It's just that it's different. This should be rejected for a simple reason why if someone hires someone, a direct manager, and gets an employee who doesn't do a job, so who's going to do the job, the direct manager? Who's gonna do that to him? It's not about party employment. It's about professionalization. This amendment should be rejected. It's just, this is notsens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52683	Thank you. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52684	I am sorry that the honourable Member did not listen and did not even read the amendment, because its explanation means that the amendment does not speak at all about employment, but about the trial work and the conditions that one needs to fulfil on the probationary work, which the employer assesses. So this isn't about transferring jobs to someone else. Please read and you'll see that I'm right. This is just about shutting down the possibility of corruption. That's not what I'm accusing anyone of, but there's no room left for someone who tried to get that job and didn't get it, to interpret it wrong and to misrepresent a place like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52685	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52686	Thank you. I read the law very well, and I know exactly what you said, I say I worked in local self-government. It's a test run. That's why someone is particularly interested in a man, so the manager is in the interest of hiring a professional person, otherwise someone will have to do his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52687	Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of the head and member of the 75th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 76th amendment. By this amendment do you want, Mr. Jovanovic? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52688	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, in principle debate, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have pointed to something that, on the one hand, does not pose a problem for our parliamentary group to support such a bill as it is, but in practice, it can cause certain problems when it comes to the practical application of Articles 75 and 76. Why? The humane plan compared to the Regulation in the systematising of jobs and interpretations given by the ministry towards units of local self-government causes different interpretation of units of local self-government. What's this about? We make the human plan according to the number of jobs, titles, number of employees with a working relationship, and the working relationship for an indefinite period of time. There's nothing to argue about. We're not sure if there's gonna be any laws. In 2016 we passed laws that produced new jobs that could not be defined by the Staff Plan. In particular, we have passed the Sport Act, which provides for the position of sports inspector or sports inspector. This in 2015, when the staff plan for 2016 was formed, we could not predict in any case. This is where local self-government units are going to have some problems. Why? Because the rules on the systematization of workplaces are made according to the number of jobs existing at the time of the adoption of the Work Systematisation Regulation. What does that mean again, Your Honor? Your interpretation to the units of local self-government, I have to be subjective here and get away from my Uzic, because we have problems there and because colleagues and other employees in city administrations say -- let's deal with it now. What's the problem? The problem is that the rules on the systematization of jobs, based on the human resources plan, are defined only for filled jobs. Just filled in. What do we do for those jobs that aren't filled? Then how do we define them by the rules on job systematization? What do we do in case we have a job as an educational inspector at the level of a local self-government unit? It doesn't have to be Uzice, it can be Belgrade. We have an unfulfilled job, and here we have an interpretation that this job systematization rule can only be defined in filled jobs. We're causing a practical problem. The problem is reflected, it's not related to this law, but I have to point out, and to companies that are the founder of local self-government units. Where we choose the director, they are not part of what the filled jobs mean, they are, based on what is the election result, to be completely honest and open, defined set up in a certain way, they have given up and frozen their functions in the parties and are not now covered. So the job system rules are defined for everyone except the directors, then our director is in some vacuum, virtually. Now let's get back to the law. We have the same thing now when it comes to the practical application of this law. The city administration's professional services, Užice has four or five, Belgrade has secretariats, there are administrations, etc., we have unfulfilled and filled jobs, we are in trouble. The rules on the systemization of jobs are only tied to filled jobs, these unfulfilled ones don't see where they are. Maybe you'll deny it. I'm telling you that this problem appears in practice, in practice. I would just like one interpretation from the ministry, at the request of the units of local self-government, to make this problem far more analytical, far more carefully accessible by covering everyone in fact. So we don't have a problem when we define a job systematization rule. Why? The city council will be responsible for this, the mayor will be responsible. These problems are already emerging in Užica, and questions are being asked, specifically to me, as a folk MP, whether to ask for authentic interpretation when it comes to the provisions of this law, I apologize, the previous law, and now it's a little bit different and, in the end, how to norm in the rules on the systematization of jobs, which means the fact that they are complete, I apologize, those who are filled and those who are not filled. To make it perfectly clear, I'm only going to set one example. I called for a situation in the town of Uzic, where we have an educational inspector. We don't have a full job right now, it's empty. According to the Ministry's interpretation, all filled jobs, such as the building inspector, environmental inspector, traffic inspector and all others, other than education, have been defined by a regulation based on interpretation, i.e. the Ministry's opinion. The next day, we need this same educational inspector, he's needed, he's going to do certain jobs that involve supervision and control of educational and educational institutions. How do we define it? Please, not only for the sake of Užica, but for the sake of all Serbia and all units of local self-government, which is likely to adjust this problem through some question, to try to address this problem with an adequate opinion, an adequate interpretation. Since we have not submitted any amendment, we did not consider it necessary to submit some important amendments, in order for a truly reasonable and rational interpretation to help solve these problems. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52689	It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52690	I'd just like to explain for a little while. The problem you state is not related to this, nor to other legislation, but to the practical problems that arise where the number of employees is greater than the maximum number established by the Law on how to determine the maximum number of employees, and this law sets some standards that I must stress. About 30% of local self-government units in Serbia are already satisfying. So there is no problem for them in terms of filled and not filled jobs. The problem is with those who have so many employees that, now that they have to be reduced by systematicisation, they may have less needed workers in filled jobs, not full systemised jobs now, they have to do something about it. So the problem must be solved by a different organisation of work and systematization must reflect the need for services to be provided to citizens in a more efficient way, so that every company and every institution in each local self-government unit in Serbia extends to the leper as high as it is. You can't go over. It's not easy. We're available to consult, but ultimately we have to deal rationally with the resources we have and can't go beyond that, there's no way. In the end, Serbia is in charge, and in the end it can threaten us with a Greek scenario, if we continue in the way we have done until recently. Now that you're struggling with this problem, it's a sign that we're starting to solve problems the way they have to, in a permanent, healthiest way possible, but it's not easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52691	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52692	Your Honor, I understand what you said, but I'm not sure if you understand me correctly. This is exclusively about jobs where working relationships with employees are based indefinitely. If that's okay and we're in relation to that fact in connection, that you understand me well, I've set up a practical problem that has already appeared. If we make a systematization regulation according to the current state of affairs, how do we hire a sports inspector? Based on what rule? What rules on job systematization will define the possibility of his employment? Let's not talk about having somewhere earlier in some former regulations on the systematization of the jobs of an educational inspector. What are we going to do in case there's a new legislation? We'll get a new call in three or four months, we'll bring in new legal acts, probably from this area, then maybe we'll define some new jobs. This is all in 2016, we already have a staff plan for 2016 in 2015. How do we define these questions now? That's what I set up as a practical problem. We simply don't have it in the law, and it will appear and ask only for understanding in that direction when you set yourself up according to local self-government and their needs. No more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52693	Thank you. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 77th amendment. The title and article of the 78th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 79th amendment. The title and article of the 80th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 80th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Here you go, Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, article 80 talks about how to fill a job, says – the execution site is filled with permanent transfer, conduct of an internal competition, takeover of employees or start a working relationship after a public competition, the position is filled with the setting. We suggest that this member is – the executive post is filled in by conducting an internal competition or by establishing a working relationship after a public competition is implemented. An executive post may be completed by taking over officials in the event that a unit of local self-government has taken over the jurisdiction of the abolished unit of local self-government or city municipality, i.e. when the authority of the administration has taken over the authority of the abolished authority of the administration or when the regional secretariat has assumed the jurisdiction of the abolished regional authority of the service or organisation, the position shall be filled in by the installation. The amendment proposes that the enforcement post be filled with internal or public competitions, and only in the event of the takeover of jurisdiction should the permanent transfer be deleted as a way of filling up enforcement posts. The bill does not specify the procedure for this way of filling jobs, no criteria are defined and cases where such job filling occurs. This way of filling the workplace also carries high corrupt risks and risks of abuse. It was left to the superior to decide which employee to move to. In addition, this can be an untransparent way of progress. At the same time, there may be a way to sanction an insubordination officer, because according to the bill, an officer must accept the transfer, so please. Okay, you weren't even listening, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52695	The vice president listened to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52696	I listened to you, but I looked at the explanation. You narrow down the choice the law gives you for how to fill a job. We don't see any reason to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52697	Mr. Bradiche, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52698	I think our solution is better than what you've given in law, but well, you're a representative of the government and you represent one kind and one policy and you defend that policy. We defend our politics, and these people who watch and expect their destiny. After this law, they will say in the elections whose policy is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52699	Thank you. The title and article of the 81st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 81st Amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The title above article 81 reads – order of action in filling jobs. We've suggested that we change the article 81. We all have the text of the law. I'm not going to read it. I'm just going to explain it. We have proposed that changes be made by providing for an exclusive internal and public competition as a rule for the fill-up of executive jobs. We propose to delete the transfer provisions, and the takeover provisions are amended so that this case is only possible when the authorities are removed and the authorities are taken over. The transfer and takeover carries a corrupt risk, in our opinion which is not small, because there are not enough clear criteria for applying these methods of employment. The procedure is not transparent and has been followed by the discretionary powers of the executives, which can also lead to the subjective attitude of the manager and the abuse of the executive. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution of the proposed member of the bill is not improved, rather the number of possible ways in which the place of execution can be completed is reduced. That is exactly what we have stated in the argument that we are limiting, that is to say, excluding the possibility of moving and reducing the ability to move and download only in certain cases in order to prevent abuses or bringing employees into a situation that is inappropriate and which does not suit them, and all of this is based on the practices of the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52701	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52702	This is in my opinion a legitimate dilemma because there are systems that do not allow the takeover. I'm not sure there are any systems that don't allow transfer. It's really a complete hand binding to a manager who at any time can and should deploy employees as he believes will improve labour productivity. I don't think that's standing. However, there may be a dilemma in taking over, but we still weigh the interests of business efficiency and reducing the possibility that employees are not treated in exactly the same way. I don't think there's a big space for corrupt behavior, or a bigger one when there's a competition, is exactly the issue. After all, if someone is already working in institutions or from which it can be taken over, the assumption is that these people have also passed the check the way someone would double-check again. If you had super-efficient systems to check that you could work fast, etc. then perhaps that interest can be seen as more important than the interest to be effectively filled in those jobs that are necessary for the business process to progress. So we've identified ourselves for this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52703	Thank you. Members of the 81st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zivkovic and Pavicevic. The title and title and article of the 82nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. The title and article of the 83rd amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Bozovic and Gordana Comic. National MPs Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and article of the 84th amendment. The title and article of the 85th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The title and article of the 86th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52704	I will also use the time of authorised representatives of the DS parliamentary group. Article 86 speaks in its edge of the success of the internal competition and the adoption of a transfer solution. Except that the transfer appears on two or three grounds, I have no objection, so much I want this provision in general deleted as an illustration of all the provisions concerning the internal competition because that's what I call normative optimism. Excessive. Therefore, Article 86 says that when an internal competition succeeds, an officer in a position managed by the authorities of the AP, or the head of the administration, makes a solution to the transfer of officials and delivers it to all candidates. In the second position, candidates who participated in the competition have the right to appeal for solutions on the transfer of officials under the same conditions and within the same period as in the public competition procedure. All these seven, eight members, basically, have no difference compared to the public competition, but you opted for an internal one. That's not a good solution for at least three reasons. First, it's an instrument that doesn't allow every law to abuse, it's an instrument that you create abuse. Like the instrument of discretionary authority that creates the space of corruption. It's legal, but it's a moral deficit, so it's not good, it's not according to who the law's going to be applied to, or who the law applies, or all of us in general if we share the goal of wanting management. And you can see it in that article 86. An internal competition has succeeded, a transfer solution has been given, and these others will appeal all the same deadlines and the same procedure as the public competition. Then why don't you have a public competition? Why the Institute of Internal Competition? The explanation that this is the legal conduct of the manager, whoever explained it to you, has misexplained you and has never worked in local self-government or had contact with people. In the principle debate, I was talking about 997 people working in the administration of the city of Novi Sad and I can now talk about a total of 20,000 people to whom this law applies. This is what you create an instrument, different from the provisions that are now in the rules relating to the position of enforcement jobs. So, not only do you think that the manager should have the power to move, because there are members who say - I move you to the same place of work, consent, without, etc., introducing a public competition, so that the public, the neutrality of candidates, the credibility of the competition commission, can be made available, because everything is done by the money of all of us, all of us citizens, and then you introduce a third and fourth mechanism for people, these 20,000 to whom this law applies, to change jobs. I can only hope that all that I think about certain provisions in the law and the way the law is presented to us, that in application it will show that I am wrong. I rarely wish I could read wrong, like this law. There was another one and, unfortunately, I was right. I wish I were right and that you do not create a single space in the administration regarding local self-government and autonomous provinces which, practically, by law, you give people instruments in your hands, which are completely contrary to the desire to have a healthy organization, hard work results, good executives, and all that means the greatest and most efficient service of those who work in the administration, all those who live in those local self-governments or in the autonomous provinces. It's unnecessary to have an internal competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52705	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52706	Again, I can agree that it is possible and there are systems where internal competition has no advantage. This is a solution that strengthens the concept of career advancement of officials. We think it's a good concept. We don't see that it's a necessary instrument of corruption and it's very confusing, I'm even wondering if you've got something wrong with it. I think it probably is, and now that you've intervened with one member and since you're talking about erasing all the members, the question is do you understand the whole of the law? But I want to, for the sake of the citizens' interest, just to explain that they are both legitimate and other solutions, but in a country where we try to build an official Corps, a body, it makes sense to give first opportunity to employees in that body to move, to move forward, to move on. If existing employees who report to the competition, no one is forcing them to change jobs, those who want to report, do not meet the requirements of the job, are going to a public competition. It is a perfectly legitimate and normal act in a large number of countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52707	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52708	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In your explanation, there's evidence that I know very well why I'm criticizing this law. You say this - you want to make career advancement possible and therefore internal competition. And the internal competition can fail. So how much, not to say an ugly word, is the manager calling an internal competition? He can't do both. All your arguments have an internal opposite. Because the law sucks. And all your arguments have a nickname – we want to make it effective, public, transparent, quality. I'm telling you that the internal competition is a data surplus. You say - it's for career advancement. So it's called because the organ manager, because it's all written, and that's why I'm erasing all the members. So, he's calling it in, I'm not calling it in, you're not calling it in, he's not being called out by the tenant, but he's being called by the manager, because there's probably someone who deserves a career promotion. And then you say, "Well, it may not succeed." And who's going to be responsible? A manager who doesn't know whether his clerk should make progress or not? Or does the manager have an instrument in his hands? I repeat, I wish I was wrong when I read this law. I'd love to. Maybe more than most of your ministry or you yourself. But being right gives me your reasons, unfortunately. Either you need to know exactly why an internal competition, so explain it to me, beyond any doubt, or I'm right and internal competitions here are an additional instrument that you create what in the administration cannot be created by law, which is that the manager practically uses legal will. It's a moral deficit of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52709	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52710	Mrs. Comic, you are neither in the debate in principle, nor in this discussion right now, nor in any argument of me you have begun to convince that there is a fundamental problem with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52711	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52712	And I'm not supposed to do it, that's what you did. If you say so, I want an internal competition for career advancement. Look in the stenogram, I listen very carefully. That's why I'm reacting to what you're saying. As you said in defense of the Payment System Act, there was one basis, one coefficient, and local self-government reduces the basics if they don't have the money. Did I say that? No, that's what you said. That's what you said here right now that it's about career advancement, and it can't work. What's your manager doing? What's the manager doing to you who's calling the competition, if he's calling it for career advancement? Or doesn't he call it for career advancement? Then why is he calling it off? The People's Messengers who break the Rules of Procedure say to bring whom they will. And they're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52713	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52714	I didn't expect that degree of populist dissuasion in this congregation. What does it mean that the competition doesn't work? It's a perfectly normal legal formulation. Distracting attention from the essence of this law to the wrong interpretation of the text in the way you do it, I don't think you're doing service to the citizens who are watching this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52715	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52716	It would be easier for both of you to talk about the law you've proposed, because I'm here to read the law, and you're here to answer my questions. If it's your choice to try to disqualify the way I read the law, then we have a problem with your understanding, not just the law, but procedures in the National Assembly. You can not answer my question, you can answer whatever you want, but your decision to accuse me of harming the citizens of Serbia on my quote, more than anything, of saying that this law is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52717	Thank you. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article of the 87th amendment. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 87th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52718	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister with Associates, the amendment to Article 87 relating to internal competition and internal competition failed if there was no application in the internal competition, if no candidate has met the requirements of the internal competition, or has not delivered all the necessary evidence or reports are untimely or inadmissible, and point 3) - if the commission finds that none of the candidates reported has participated in the electoral procedure, etc. We suggest, given that there are things here that do not make sense, that in Article 87 paragraph 1(2), the words “did not meet the conditions of the competition, or” are deleted, that point 3 is deleted and in point 2. Mark 3 is also deleted. The reason for this is that Article 87 of point (2) covers procedural deficiencies which provide for the conclusion of the rejection in Article 88. That is why the formulation cannot be found that the candidate has not met the conditions of an internal competition, because it is not a procedural flaw. Point 3 is deleted, because absolutely nothing means and the change in attitude 2 is just a alignment. So here's one thing, let me say, the normative editorial of a complete member who would be expelled from those parts that absolutely don't have the need to stand here, and where else, in terms of changes and submission of our amendment, would be determined by a complete member. I think this would contribute to a better understanding of the law, especially when it comes to the failure of an internal competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52719	Thank you. Members of the 88th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Thank you. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52720	Article 89 closes the space of this new instrument and reads: “If the internal competition fails, the employer may decide to fill the job by taking over the employees. “ It can be done otherwise. With this article, followed by Chapter IV of the download, you have practically introduced another situation where the manager, or employer, takes over officials. So if the internal competition doesn't work, he can call a public competition and he can take over the officers, and then he has more to do the takeover. If we were to conduct a Gedanken experiment, just one local self-government, here, this newly-soldier with 997, just one executive, just one employer, if we tried on an imaginary employee, anyone, for executive work, to apply these members, then you'd see how bad it looks for the system in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52721	It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52722	Since the two MPs who have proposed and for this, as well as the other 199 members in this law to be deleted, did not then give any explanation by members, nor in the discussion in principle was a convincing representation of what the concept of the official system they advocated, I will not continue to respond to the discussion, which, as it goes, shows that a clear concept does not exist when it comes to what is an alternative to this one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52723	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52724	The alternative is to understand what the congregations are for, to learn. I'm not here to give you an alternative to the law. My job, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is under the Law on the National Assembly, to comment, analyse, criticise, ask and check what the executive authority is doing. It's a little upside down, you know, for years now, and unfortunately it's not just a feature of this government, it'd be good, it'd be easy if it were a feature of this government, no, it's a feature of all the governments that I've known business in detail for the last 26 years, that every minister thinks he can come to the Assembly to question MPs. And you're writing a law on officials? You think you can explain to me how officers will organise themselves effectively, and as a minister you come and tell me – you have no alternative to this law? My job is not to have an alternative to this law. I can, if I want to. It's my job to ask you in detail enough to leave together any doubt about the consequences of the people this law is left for their lives. That's my job. We've heard all sorts of things from all kinds of ministers, you don't count yourself here, but that attitude – shame on you, you bear the amendments "clear yourself", shame on you, you don't have an alternative to me. After I ask you, after I say that you have introduced a member of 89th additional takeover, you de facto tell me – well, I won't talk to you. Do you really think that with that attitude towards me in the Assembly, I am not important to my name and last name, I am a national MP, whoever I am, that you can awaken trust in anyone that you want an efficient, transparent, controlled, clear, good and quality administration results in local self-government? I might hardly believe you if you were to demonstrate here the behavior you are bound by both the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly and the Law on Government. The power of argument can be whatever you want, your rhetoric can be whatever you want, but when I quote you and when I submit amendments to which I have the right, and when you tell me – you do not give me an alternative, I will no longer answer, you have delegated yourself from any serious discussion of this law. I repeat, I would be the happiest if it were this government and it would be easy for me, you know, that folklore -- wow, I'm the opposition -- wow, down the government, but that's not the case, it happens with all governments and almost all ministers, to a lesser or larger extent. You are not only responsible for this, we are responsible and we are the MPs who are silent when we have to say – no, because the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly obliges us to tell you – no, you cannot behave like this, you are executive power, we control you, not you. Although I belong to the opposition, my job is to try and talk to you about reducing any damage, such as my job to make a better solution, if it's all right. But unfortunately, it is very rarely happening so far with very few executive officials. My question is very simple – why are you introducing a special instrument in article 89, which you say – if the internal competition fails, then can take over? The following are members of Chapter IV on the takeover. I have no obligation to give you any alternative. You have a constitutional obligation to answer my question, even if disqualification or attempt to disqualify. It's our misunderstanding, banal, but deep.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52725	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52726	I'll answer your questions. I didn't say at any point that I wouldn't answer any questions, but you quoted me wrong, but I don't feel obliged to comment on your comments when I think they're just disabling the meaning of the law. I don't think it's fair for citizens who want to hear specific questions, concrete solutions, to disabling them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52727	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52728	Your right to think what's fair to citizens is equally my right to think what's fair to citizens. It's the banality of our misunderstanding and both of those rights are recorded in the laws. I, when I submit amendments and I explain amendments, respect the Law on the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When you answer me, that what I consider to be of interest to the citizens, to dissuade the citizens, you say to me, I will not speak to you. I fully understand you, but unfortunately it assures me that I am right that this law will not bring about the good of which you speak very, very emotionally and very knowingly in principle sentences. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52729	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 90th amendment. Members of the 90th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52730	Thank you. Article 90 speaks of taking over, so, you say – The employer can take over from another employer from Article 4 of this Act, or from a state body without competition from an official who is in a working relationship to an indefinite period of time. The takeover of officials shall take place on the basis of a takeover agreement with the consent of the takeover officer. Interestingly, you're here asking for the consent of an officer on the transfer of an officer. We think that this article is not good because taking over as you have defined does not contain clear criteria on the basis of which this procedure would be carried out, nor are the cases in which it is carried out. We propose that a member – The employer can take over from another employer from Article 4 of this Act, i.e. from a state body without competition of officials in the event of taking over the jurisdiction due to the abolition of the unit of local self-government or city municipality, i.e. the abolition of the authority of the administration, i.e. the Secretariat of the City Administration of Belgrade or the abolition of the regional authority, service or organisation. The takeover of officials shall be based on the law, decision and other legal act, which shall put an end to one employer and refer jurisdiction to another employer. As you gave Madam Minister, you make the employer the owner of this institution, he becomes the master of life in that work organisation, he can take over from another work organisation as he wills and whoever he wants without competition. We think that the solution that we gave you is, if you shut down an organ, if you take responsibility, it's normal for those people who worked there to cross over and work in this facility, but this is just a litter of abuse and it's possible that this employer can literally do whatever he wants in his work unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52731	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. Members of the 90th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 92nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The title and article of the 93rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 93th member is the first in the main public competition, full of jobs and he says – Public competition is being held to fill the jobs of officials and tenants, as well as for the reception of trainees. We have submitted an amendment to this article in the sense that we have proposed to add a 2nd position after this attitude – the public competition referred to in Article 1 must be called within eight days of the day the job remains vacant, i.e. since the decision on the reception of the trainees and must be concluded within 30 days of the day of the call. The amendment sets out the deadlines in which the public competition must be called, i.e. the deadline within which it must be concluded, because under the bill, such a solution does not exist. In an explanation stating why the amendment is not accepted, we refer to the provisions of Articles 100 to 110 which fully determine the implementation of the public competition. We did read the whole law, so only then did we write the amendments and unfortunately we didn't find these deadlines there, and we felt it was necessary for them to stand, so we found them here somehow the best place.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52733	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52734	I have to say, you're right that maybe the explanation doesn't entirely correspond to the reasons we don't accept this amendment. Yes, this is arranged, they don't give deadlines. The assumption of your amendment that every job to be filled out has to be filled out. That would mean that you have to change the systemization of the moment you see that you can perform some work process without filling up a job. It's that efficiency problem again. Indeed, in a country where we work to increase efficiency, to rationalize, this would be the opposite of any intention that ultimately the administration works better and cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52735	Thank you. Both Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 94th amendment. Members of the 94th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52736	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the essence of this amendment is to say, less the same, that is to add a new position that defines in which time the competition must be called, but much more important in which it must end. You've talked about it now, and we don't agree in principle on the way jobs should be filled out. We have previously sought to delete takeovers and transfers as a way and generally throughout the law we believe that calling internal and public competitions is a way to fill all jobs that show the need to fill. This law, given that you yourself have said, perhaps the argument is not adequate, an explanation for not accepting this amendment identical to that of the previous one. You're saying that deadlines and procedures have been clearly established. Now, I've read Article 103 that talks about an election procedure and there's no deadline. So, there's a deadline for filing applications, there's a deadline for setting the list for the election, there's a deadline for selecting candidates, but this election procedure has not been defined by one deadline, which means the whole process can take indefinitely. Of course, you will now convince us citizens that it will be an efficient administration, career management and the world to do it in the best possible, ideal world and that it will all look beautiful and wonderful, but ours is afraid that it will not. That's why we put on a deadline. Maybe we could talk about whether it's real, it's not real, if we had the time to look at these laws like this in this shortened procedure day by day, talk about it more, and see if our 30-day deadline for ending is realistic or not real. But under this law, by reading all these articles from 100 to 110, there is no clear deadline in which the competition has to end, and we are just putting provisions in these Articles 93, 94, and among other things, we want to define how long the competition takes, or how long it has to end. That law doesn't offer and we think it's bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52737	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52738	In Article 105, there is a clear deadline within which a decision must be made on the selection of candidates, which is 15 days, and that is the only deadline that we have considered important to specify, precisely to protect the integrity of the process, and otherwise, members of 100 to 110 finely determine one process in which flexibility must exist, because competitions for different types, places of need, preparation, verifications and the employer himself have the greatest motivation to move quickly enough, if there is really a need to fill the job. So integrity is protected, a deadline exists where it matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52739	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52740	For the sake of truth, the deadline set out in Article 105 speaks the solution to the selection of candidates on the list for 15 days, and the previous Article 104 speaks after the end of the election procedure, the competition commission draws up a list within 15 days, but the election procedure is not limited. So it can last indefinitely, and that's bad, and we wanted to put this whole procedure, in maybe unreal 30 days, but you've avoided limiting the whole process in time. There are deadlines, there's a deadline in Article 102, but the whole procedure, just because there's no deadline in Article 103 can be unlimited. It may not be happening, but it would be better if it was either defined there, or if the whole procedure was defined within a certain period, and then it would be excessively defined in Article 103. We just wanted our amendment, that the whole process, not these individual stages, would be defined by some timeline.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52741	Members of the 95th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 97th amendment. The title and article of the 98th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković and Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52742	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, Article 98nd position 2 and he is very important because he foresees an institution that is so far unknown. Therefore, Article 98 states – the official takes the position on the day of the decision to place the position. That's not controversial. Item 2 says that -- an officer in office may, after the time he has been placed on, be put back in the same position without a public competition. We thought it was wrong, and I'm going to show you with two examples that we're right. We're proposing an amendment that predicts erasing this position 2, because that kind of discretionary right that you predict can be re-elected, you just haven't figured out how many times you can choose it, as long as you think it's good. It's the first example that you haven't made a good solution. Secondly, what if after the extension of that deadline, without competition, he is removed after two years, or relieved of his duties. What explanation will you give him if you are in our argument for the contest, you have told this amendment that the amendment is not accepted, because the solution provided for in Article 98(2). The bill allows the permanent function of persons whose expertise has already been demonstrated. What is this person whose expertise has been proven after his first term, or when he comes here? Do you know that local self-governments function according to the principle of choice and that these other functions are subject to the authority that is running for its programme and in the elections for this programme gets support and on the basis of how you have provided for earlier members, that it can make certain substitutes for key things. After all, the employer has the right to trust someone and not question his knowledge. The solution you've put here, you've given an opportunity to extend the mandate to someone without a competition, one more and one more. How much? You didn't specify that, and that's how you went through one of the flossules where you made it possible for the function to be constant. Does that mean, then, what if the MP was elected for the first time, and then you extended his function, because he's yours on your list? Okay, maybe I'm not the best example, but the same way you treat someone who works. I don't think that's right and the explanation that you could give is discrediting someone who's better than he's had the chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52743	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52744	What you're talking about is exactly the opposite of what the law's purpose is and what's the fact. I'm sorry, first of all, this isn't a function, the position is exactly one of the most responsible professional positions, and if someone wants to extend the functioner, when the power changes, then you can be sure that someone deserves to stay in that place and that's what's going on. If there hasn't been a change of government, yet this one knows him well, knows his work. So this is one normal practice everywhere, it's very common for a person who puts himself in this position after five years, even if the next government wants that position to confirm to him that he doesn't have to go through the competition again, it's a perfectly normal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52745	The title and article of the 99th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52746	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last word in this assembly of the National Assembly, so I would like to announce one note to the vice president and chair of today's session, Mr. Becic, not to interrupt me once, and, if possible, not once, to turn off my microphone. I think it would be appropriate right now. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I was elected for the first time in my life as a MP in 2014, it was a huge honor for me. For me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was a great challenge, and with terrible pleasure, I made a commitment to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice here. In these years and ten months, I think that every person, every man who closely followed our National Assembly's meeting, made sure that it really was, thanks to our work, the New Party has strengthened in these years and ten months. Our policy has become more recognizable and citizens are now in a much greater percentage, more pronounced, supporting everything that the terrible virtues of the MPs in our Parliament have shown – industriousness, commitment and heartlessness in the parliamentary work that we have constantly shown here from session to session, by MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself. The result is an exact, 9% support in the election body for the New Party at the end of this call, the tenth one calling our National Assembly. It is a great result for me, gentlemen, and when we add to that the percentages that we will make in the next extraordinary parliamentary elections, to hear and Mrs Udovicki, together with our colleagues and friends from the DS, my estimate is that it will be one 30%. In that sense, gentlemen, I would like to inform my angry SNS political opponents that here on this table I will leave this Serbian language dictionary waiting for me for the next call to use as much as I used it in this conference. Here I will be waiting for me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a collection of regulations that also contains the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, to remind every chairperson from whatever party to come from, every time we estimate that he does not adhere to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and most importantly, dear colleagues, here, for the next assembly, I will have the most important book, the most significant document for every citizen of our Republic, and that is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In this Constitution, one of the greatest principles is laid down, for example, by a member of the Government, Mrs Udovicki. It's the principle of rule of law. Mrs. Udovicki, for example, at another session, by applying one criterion to some of our amendments, and at today's session, gentlemen, when we invited her to apply the same criterion to similar amendments, she decided not to apply the same criterion. For me, it is a picture and an opportunity, a government that does not adhere to the functioning of its members in this particular case, Mrs. Udovici, one of the great principles contained in our Constitution, which is the principle of rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will participate in the elections, be organised, it's obviously April 24th, and I will also be a very active individual during the election campaign, as I was active in our debates, parliamentary debates here in our National Assembly. It is my hope that we will use this campaign to face attitudes about different systems, ideas, beliefs, values and opinions, that there will be no insults, that there will be no microphones, that there will be no interruptions, but that we will have a chance for a good debate and outside the Assembly. My opinion is this: the SNS will be weaker after the next elections, the NS will be stronger, but also Serbia, which I hope, after the next elections, will be much more respected than it is now. Thank you, dear fellow Members of the People's Party and honored guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52747	I knew I'd need a handkerchief, Mr. Pavicevic, but I'd just point out that you had to come a little early, because the humorist show is usually about 20 hours. So you're a little late, now at half past 11:00. And there's just one more thing I'd like to say, if you've never been unearthly interrupted and you've never been turned off by a microphone, you've got to admit it, dear professor. The People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic has the word, and the People's Messenger Marijan Rističević. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently my predecessor is already applying this law on the continuity of functions, only for that to take another three years of office and I would ask Mr. Chairman to keep those books where they stand, is usually a party that loses in the elections. My colleague Pavicevic, whom I appreciate, would be really worried about his health if I didn't know he was joking. I can only wish them good luck in the election, help the DS cross the censorship. We'd miss them very much here in the Assembly, it'd be very monotonous, it'd be very boring, we wouldn't be able to smile at some discussions for some time, so I think in this number as far as you are now, you'll probably find yourself after these choices you mentioned, but don't worry about anything. Don't worry about the future is ahead of you, I've had to be a 12-year opposition MP, I wish you at least as much, when you learn everything I've learned in 12 years in opposition, you'll know that you appreciate both power and how to act in power and citizens, etc. Because if you come to something very easy, then you can't appreciate it. We came the hard way, that's why we rule, which is why the government has the same results as it does. We don't have to deal with demagogy, we don't have to falsely protect anyone, the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic has results. We'll go to the polls with the results. Those who have lost the previous one will lose power with demagogy because the results did not even have results while exercising power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52749	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Although they do not help the DS cross the censorship, we will lose Mr Pavicevic in the Great Hall of the National Assembly and believe that these tissues will need much more. I thank you and apologize. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52750	Ladies and gentlemen, every commodity has its own buyer, so most likely an organization that considers itself a new one, consisting of used politicians has found its buyer after a persistent offer of several days, but since it is about competitions, I think that the competition is closed, that they have managed to approach somewhere, and often they have challenged my rights to interpret laws and amendments. Let's see here in the O.R. the only MP without minority parties going to the polls was me. Name and last name of the republic, president, province, local. I've dated myself many times. I had the courage to expose myself to the voters, because democracy in the center theory loves, for those who run the state to check out a little with voters, and I didn't see those who point out some percentages dared to expose themselves to the electoral body and get that nine, ten, 30 percent, as much as they already talked about here. I think they should have done it, but I don't believe the one they went to see that they brought the votes. They don't add up anywhere. The honor of academic congratulation, but I think my fellow farmer, where he comes up, there's no plus, there's a minus, and if they're really with DS, I think DS is yellow, sorry, black. So, I believe there's no censorship, there's no voice-gathering, there's no seduction. As far as the rule of law is concerned, I think that this Assembly was both liberal and that it allowed, to my satisfaction and to the satisfaction of many colleagues, to the MPs of the opposition, all that was forbidden to this ruling majority when the ruling majority was in opposition until 2012. The rule of law and the rule of law also implies that there is no need to support the founding of the Glog of the Island, that one cannot, but cannot, with so much authority talk about the rule of law if he was a party friend of Jove Kapičić, founder of the Golog Otok, a well-known liquidator of all political opponents from 1944, 1955, and all there until 1953, who even calculated himself with his own party colleagues. The rule of law should also be discussed with little delay by those who, for example, supported certain professors, whose number of years had ended and who had entered into their textbooks that the UCK was a peaceful democratic organisation. Also, about the rule of law. With restraint, she should speak if a supported teacher wrote and included in her textbooks that Serbs had committed sexual genocide in Kosovo and Metohija. That rule of law in such a way that I do not fully acknowledge, but I hold that my colleague, and I will always support him, has the right to advocate the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, and I also have to say that there are countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without a state. My fellow farmer, i.e. his fellow party, is one of the most responsible things that the state in 2003 slipped out of the hands of its citizens and that we had a situation that we had a state without a state, that corruption ate democracy, that instead of the market economy and the multilateral system we only had monopolies and crime. So, I support the insistence of the fellow who brought it out here, but I'm afraid the percentages that they were, that they weren't percentages, that they actually changed it, and after the last performance of my fellow farmer, I think they were promulgated and malignant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52751	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52752	By amendment, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the amendment not to be accepted for a logical reason why we have not heard one single argument, or anything that would speak in favor of eventual acceptance. In fact, apart from a kind of suicide note, we haven't heard anything else that could be described as unserious again, but perhaps it would be too much to expect that the end of the event here is different from anything we could hear during this term and from the same address. Since, if we forgive ourselves, as we were able to hear, once again, I would probably, for the last time, look back at the statistics and make opposition conclusions out of them. You know those analogies about the percentages of adopted mandates and what that means next. I'm also pulling a certain parallel here. I, on the basis of these statistics and these so-called analogies, conclude that not this or that percentage of citizens think or do this or that, but that a precise and round one MP did not master the meaning of the word analogy. Well, before the delay of the dictionary that has been announced, it might not be bad to use it for that purpose, it would be one of the good results of working in this session, and when it comes from the delay, that we do it not on the bench, but at the library. It's time to go back to where it was taken. To end up in a good tone, I welcome the invitation to be good, positive, to refrain from what is considered standard political attacks and to concentrate on what is really important. That would really be a qualitative step forward by those who just called for it, but I want to believe that for good things it's never too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52753	Thank you. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 100th amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fermond and Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52754	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's very good that the government has accepted this amendment, as well as an amendment to a member...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52755	We're sorry you're going, Mr. Pavicevic, but that's right, people's will. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52756	So, it is good that the government has accepted this amendment, as well as an amendment to the SVM 47th parliamentary group. This, of course, determines the achievement of adequate representation of members of national minorities and full equality between members of the national minority and citizens who belong to the majority. I think these amendments, probably all of these others, have been improved anyway by a good law, which I was talking about and my discussion in principle. At this time, I point out the great problem of achieving legal standards, a series of laws that are very good, but I think it's a very acute problem how to do it in practice. Only, since I am not a lawyer after all, am I asking the question now – do all these good laws not have enough norms that are bound by organs, organisations that should do so in practice and then leave the political will of certain structures in certain authorities? And in that part, it is probably necessary that both this and all other laws be provided by such a very sensitive situation that is often in practice, that this legal norm, in general, is not only spoken in terms of achieving minority rights, when it comes to achieving equality or equal representation in state bodies which, unfortunately, we currently know what it is, is convincing under what is a real situation on the ground and what is the representation of minorities in certain environments, particularly Albanians. In the speech of Madam Minister, compared to the situation of Hungarians in Vojvodina, there are, of course, other minorities in Vojvodina. Well, that practice, unfortunately, is far from what we have in other parts, among all minorities, especially when it comes to Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Here, I said, and in a series of laws, right around local self-government, I have appeared several times in the ministry with a parliamentary question – how to defend the law, for example. when he says that the president of the municipality and the deputy president of the municipality are in a working relationship in the municipality, and this is not happening in practice? I saw specifically that even when the inspection was engaged, no legal norm came true in practice. Or, when you have a situation where the president of the assembly has one deputy, and it happens in practice that there are two or more, and it's done uninterrupted in practice, and a number of other things like this. And then what we are principles in the discussion in principle, that you have a very good law on a single voter's list, which is in practice 12 years, when the last local and parliamentary elections were drastically violated. Article 7 of Article 2 of the fine there provided that the name and the name of the voter who is a member of the national minority were to be typed in a first Cyrillic letter according to the spell of the Serbian language, and then by letter and by the spelling of members of the national minority, and we know that they were only Cyrillic written, and deformed by Cyrillic, which is not in official use. It was likely that some computer program translated the names and last names of Albanians from the letter and spelling of the Albanian in a Cyrillic letter because of the differences known to them, that two letters do not have the same number of letters. Then there was the use of a series of incomprehensible, incomprehensible markings, and then it was normal for a large number of Albanians to fail to exercise the law provided for by law in the previous four years. The electoral right has not been able to achieve quite a number of people, and that will be in the next election as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52757	Mr. Halimi, please, just go back to the amendment a little bit. You've been talking for six minutes, and you didn't say anything about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52758	How could I not say? I started with the amendment. So I supported both this and that previous amendment. I think it will significantly affect the improvement of this law. But I'm talking about, here, professional people are here, how much protection these standards will be against ignoring in the practices we've had so far in a series of laws. I specifically spoke with the Law on Official Use of Language and the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52759	Mr. Halimi, you did just hit the side of this ministry, but you're not even the law. You're talking about the Single Election List Act and some other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52760	No, no, I am also speaking to this law, how much of these provisions of this law will be enforceable in practice and what mechanisms are provided for in this law to oblige all institutions, all state authorities, in this case local self-government and institutions in Vojvodina to implement it, such as. the same situation in those laws that regulate the questions of officials in state bodies and institutions. That is the essence, so how to implement good legal standards in practice, because the purpose of every law is to implement it in practice, but no one needs a letter on paper, but that it really affects life opportunities and regulation. What you just said, to create a legal state, to be order in all areas, even when it comes to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52761	Please, before you respect me, you're talking about an accepted amendment that talks about a public competition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52762	I want to thank you for still having the opportunity to listen to me this time, not to give me a replica that was absolutely in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, but here you are improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52763	Mr. Halimi, thank you. I let you go for eight minutes, but for the sake of the public, to say that this is an amendment accepted by the government, and it's talking about a public competition. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52764	I would just like to say with pride that this government has prepared in the work of this ministry, and so far the National Assembly has adopted three, I hope this fourth serious system law. Each was accompanied by support plans for their implementation, funds were provided. At this point, it is working to deploy employees at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government under the new systemization that has been done so that for each of these serious system projects there are people who will follow and work together with international partners who have provided and the means to implement these laws and these standards. These reforms are such that they take time. I accept and agree. One of the biggest problems that we have in the last 10 to 15 reform years is that we are adopting legal regulations, and then these norms are always and may not be implemented, but here I don't think this can be resented by this ministry in this government, and I can also say that this legal project will be accompanied by a serious plan. Also, some of the problems you've been talking about are being solved and it's agreed that with the Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities, it's now in the draft... We expect that at any moment it will be adopted by the Government and with this very well-prepared and accompanied appropriate preparations, the Action Plan, will go much more seriously towards resolving the problem of implementing the rules in the exercise of the rights of national minorities. However, Serbia still has a high level of protection of the rights of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52765	Thank you. The title and article of the 101st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 101st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 102 of the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 103rd amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 103. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 104 of the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 105th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 106th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 107 of the amendment. Members of the 107th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52766	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 speaks of the right to appeal by candidates participating in the electoral procedure. Article 2 we intervened on defines the conditions under which the candidate can appeal to the Board of Appeal. As a proposer, Madam Minister, you have suggested that an appeal may be made if the elected candidate does not consider that the conditions for employment in the workplace have been met or that such irregularities have occurred in the election procedure which could affect the objectivity of his outcome. Our amendment was to amend this, and it is now said that an appeal could be made for irregularities in the electoral procedure regarding the assessment and assembly of the candidate list and infringement of the rules of procedure. We think that this definition is broader and leaves the possibility of making a complaint, not only in the case of the election of candidates who are considered not to meet the conditions, but if a candidate who meets the conditions is elected, but perhaps not the best. So we don't think you've justifiably restricted the right to appeal, narrowed down this choice. In my opinion, let me say, a candidate who has failed to meet the requirements of someone who meets the conditions is a very clear violation of the whole procedure and certainly a reason to knock down the competition. I think it's okay to leave the possibility of a candidate complaining if more candidates, who all meet the conditions, one of them has been elected in a process, to leave the right to appeal and the process that has set one between several candidates who meet the conditions. So, this definition, in such cases, is not possible to make a complaint. We think our definition is broader and that it leaves a greater possibility to file a complaint.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52767	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 108th amendment. Members of the 107th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52768	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 108 regulates the right to see public competition documents, and we have proposed our amendment to amend attitude 1, so that the candidate participating in the public competition process has the right to access and see the full documentation of the public competition, as well as the photocopy of documents contained in the public competition documentation. We do not touch the position of the 2nd member who remains, according to our proposal, to be valid – it is an obligation for the employer to take care of the protection of personal data, in accordance with the law, when exercising the right of this member's position. With the amendment, we propose a broader right of candidates than those provided for in the bill, thus achieving a higher degree of protection for potentially damaged candidates who participated in the procedure. The draft law provides that the candidate, who participated in the public competition procedure, shall have the right to access information contained in the public competition documentation, in accordance with the law governing the exercise of the right to free access to information of public importance. You didn't have to write this, because that law provides it and no one can deny it. The law on the availability of information already provides this. In your explanation for the refusal of the amendment, you say that it is not accepted, because the bill has clearly prescribed the right to gain insight into the information contained in the public competition documentation, according to a regulation which sets free access to information of public importance. I'm sorry, but this is already who knows that the explanation is completely inadequate. He's just trying to convince us what's in attitude one, and we're just because we think we're offering a better solution, we're proposing that the attitude of the first member be changed. I don't want to be so suspicious, so let's just say that this is the kind of reasoning that you disrespect the MPs and the Assembly. Of course, most MPs are not interested in reading, but we, who have submitted amendments, are interested and we really care about the explanation for which the amendment is being rejected. I think it's because you had a little time to prepare your arguments, and I'm saying you'd understand how difficult it is for us when the bill arrives, when the session is scheduled within 24 hours, to study the whole law and prepare the amendments. It wasn't right in this work, this whole term, and I have to say it now in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52769	Thank you. The title, subtitle and member of the 109th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. Members of the 109th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 110th amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 111 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 111th amendment. He has the word Dr Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52770	Article 111 speaks of the concept of transfer and says: “The official may, because of the need for work, be permanently or temporarily moved to another appropriate workplace, ” and we add, “only with his consent. ” The following point is added: “The transfer of employees is not necessary because of the need to work. ” We suggest that this attitude be deleted. ‘The officer in office cannot be transferred’. That's what we agree and leave behind. Madam Minister, I don't understand anything. There is no need for the consent of officials here, in Article 90, the consent of officials is required. If I have read correctly, it is said: “The takeover of officials is carried out on the basis of the takeover agreement, with the consent of the takeover officer. ” That's what article 90 says. And here the clerk, the dental need of work, can be permanently or temporarily moved to another suitable workplace without his consent. In one case, it can be without consent, in the other case it takes consent. Since those working in the municipalities are looking at this, you should explain this, why in one case can it go without the consent of the officers, and in the other case it takes the consent of the officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52771	It's the vice president of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52772	In fact, perhaps the real question is why there is no need for the consent of the officers here. That's because there is one employer here and he actually needs to organize work in a way that is most effective in performing the services that citizens need and that protects the rights of employees with this whole law. He serves for it, but, the ultimate goal of the administration is to produce services for the citizens. In the event of a takeover, where consent is sought, it is simply impossible to do so without that consent, because it is two different employers, two different places. One employer can't order an employee who doesn't work for him. Therefore, it may not have even had to be explicitly written, but it is clear that it has to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52773	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52774	I hope the municipalities are watching this session, because it's another example of politics, understanding and experiencing politics. Absolutely unlimited power and power of the one being run as an employer. Absolutely unlimited power and I think it's not good and that such policy is not right. Because what you're saying, it's like there are no municipalities and there are no professional personnel, but now we're going to build municipalities and form a hierarchy in municipalities. This exists, this works, and the abuse that this law will allow is enormous and immeasurable.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52775	Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 112 of the amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and article 113 of the amendment. Together, MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 114th of the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 114. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and member of the 115th Amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comić together submitted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 116th of the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 117 of the amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, jointly submitted the 117th amendment. The word is Dr Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52776	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has submitted an amendment to article 117, by the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the ZZS, the SDS. We predict that article 117th century 4-6 is deleted. They should be deleted because the amendment proposes eradicating views that regulate the compensation of members of the council. Since the appointment of a height has been left to the minister responsible for the affairs of local self-government, i.e. by some special regulation and since there are no clear objective criteria on the basis of which the level of compensation can be determined, we suggest that it be deleted. In response to the non-acceptance that you do not accept this amendment, among other things, you have written that it is not accepted, since the proposed solution by the minister is competent, etc., but there in Article 117 does not pay the ministry of all members, he did not foresee, only to the president and three members. Secondly, you wrote here when determining the amount of compensation will be taken into account the quality of the expertise and timeliness of the performance of the work in accordance with the powers of the council set out in the draft law, and it is unnecessary to delete this member. Madam Minister, you've given this so much freedom. Who's to assess how well-timed it is, timely, etc. Local self-government also has serious objections in your way of thinking about the functioning of local self-government and I must say that, because it is in the context of this member. First of all, you think that local self-governments, God forbid, are prenuptials. That's not true, there are serious people working there and these serious people have serious knowledge and knowledge and perform their functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52777	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52778	Is there no MP group?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52779	There isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52780	Just one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52781	Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52782	So in determining the number of employees, you didn't consider people who have the right to vote, but the number of people who are led to live in that municipality right now, and those who live abroad and who are fully using the service of local self-government, for example, is in my self-government seven thousand, they don't enter as someone who is served by local self-government. Regardless of the warnings, you didn't accept it. I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52783	Members of the 118th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic to Article 118. Members of the 119th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 120th amendment. National MP Zoran Babic submitted to the 120th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 121 of the amendment. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 122 of the amendment. On Article 122, the amendment was jointly submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 123 of the amendment. The title, subtitle and Article 124 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 125 of the amendment. Both MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 126th of the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 127th amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and the article 128th amendment. On the head, title and member of the 129th amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted. On the head, title and article of the 130th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and article of the 131st amendment. At the title of the head, head, title and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 133th amendment. At the title of the head, head, title and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. A member of the 134th amendment was submitted jointly by the DS Parliamentary Group. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 135 of the amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 136th amendment. A member of the 136th amendment was submitted jointly by the DS Parliamentary Group. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 136th amendment were submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group Boris Tadic. Here you are, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 136 that regulates minor injuries to duties and then lists them as dots. It's got five dots. We have proposed by amendment to change point 4) which is now said to be an unwarranted non-disclosure directly assumed of the reasons for the prevention of work within 24 hours of the creation of the reason. We have proposed to reform and to read - if it does not provide a certificate of temporary prevention for work or if it abuses the right to leave due to temporary impediment to work. This amendment of ours is an adjustment to the amendment that we have submitted to Article 36. You, in your explanation, say it is not accepted for the same reasons for which this amendment has not been accepted. But from what continues and has continuity, I think you can conclude that we had some idea and some vision that we wanted to carry out, that we didn't randomly submit amendments. Now that our ideas and visions don't match it's another thing, but we've made our ideas and visions based on the work experience and practice we had in local self-government and in the authorities of the administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52785	Thank you. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 137 of the amendment. Members of the 137th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the group, Boris Tadic. Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52786	Article 137 speaks of serious violations of duty and lists, some 20 points are numbered here. We intervened in two, and I have to admit that in some way I find the explanation you gave for not accepting the amendment offensive. Insulting because you say they represent an exacerbation of Article 137. It's a bill of law. We are practically on an impossible mission to prepare the amendments to this law within one day, working a few days before that day and night in parliament on a number of other laws, giving 34 amendments to this law, none of which have been adopted, because at this time of night we are trying to explain them and convince you and I think he deserved this amendment as well as others, perhaps a few more sentences, explanations, not just what you wrote. What we asked for to be deleted - at point 2), you put that the weight of a discipline violation is illegal, i.e. illegal making of official documentation incorrect or otherwise processing of it. What other way is wrong? We asked to delete it - and otherwise irregularly, because we do not know what it means. It can be illegal, it can be incorrect, but what it means is otherwise incorrect. These are the spreads this law leaves, perhaps in this case at least, but in any case harmful. Another of our interventions at point 15) where it is said that inappropriate, violent and offensive behaviour towards parties and associates is a serious violation of duty. We've put the word to the associates, to replace the word, to the employees within the meaning of Article 3 of this law, because the term -- the associates don't appear anywhere in this law. Then you can interpret it any way you want. What does an associate mean? We think it's quite clear, and it would be clear that it stands as we have suggested to the employees, in the sense of Article 3 of this law, because it defines who is all the employees of this law. We're sorry you treated our work this way. We will stay here until the end to explain the remaining amendments, but we also hope that after the election we will not work this way, that you will not be able to propose laws in front of the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52787	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52788	I would just like to point out for public information that we understand in the EU accession process often the deadlines become crushed, but this law has been in the Assembly since October. It was put on the agenda in a short time, but since October, there has been still time for it to be carefully considered. Otherwise, as far as this particular amendment is concerned, we have this philosophical difference before the norm of whom you seek. We think we need to create a administration where it'll be clear what kind of irregularity comes along with what's listed here as a major breach of duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52789	Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 138th amendment. The title and article of the 139th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 140th amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and article 141 of the amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and Article 142 of the amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article of the 143rd amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and Article 144 of the amendment. Members of the 145th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and Article 146 of the amendment. Members of the 147th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the 148th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The title and article of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 150th amendment. On behalf of Glava, Head of the title and member of the 151st Amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comić together submitted. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 152 of the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 153rd amendment. On the Glav and Article 154 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. On the Glav and Article 155 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. On the Glav and Article 156 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 157 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 158th amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 159 of the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 160th amendment. The title and article of the 161st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 162 of the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 163rd amendment. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 164 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 165 of the amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 166 of the amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 167 of the amendment. Members of the National Assembly Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 168 of the amendment. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. On behalf of Glava, Glavu, the name and member of the 169th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted the title and article 170th. On Glav, the title and article of the 171st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article 172. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 173rd amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and article 174. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 175th amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and Article 176 of the amendment. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together to the title and article 177 of the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinkovic and Mr. Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52790	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are in Article 177 paragraph 5 – whose height is determined by greater words – in the height of half the salary higher. The explanation for such a procedure is many things and many of the amendments that we have submitted to this law, which you have characterized as an aberration, is the desire to make as many things as possible, as much detail in the law as possible and that it is unchangeable. By sublegislative acts, you give the right or the one who performs the post in your ministry, or the minister in your ministry, will have the right without great knowledge of the public and without the possibility of public debate, as is done in the laws of the National Assembly, to norm and determine these sublegal acts according to his or her own opinion, which is not good, because today you, tomorrow, are the third day. That's not good. Likewise here, you have predicted that this larger one will determine the amount of compensation for this commission, because this Article 177 regulates the appointment of members of the Board of Appeal and can thus directly affect them unless it is specified exactly how much money it is, or how much compensation it is. In this way, that is half of the fee received by the member of the council, as we have suggested, you have brought about a causative dependence and assessed the real value of the job that needs to be done by the Board of Appeal, and thus do not expose the Commission to the possibility of corruption, or influence on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52791	Thank you. It's the vice president of the government. Here you go, Mrs. Widowsky.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52792	I'd like to take this opportunity, Mr. Marinkovic, and in your previous discussion, you spoke about the adjustment of the fees for work in that Council case, so then a little theme dragged you away, and here you are now. I'd like to leave it in the amanet of the next government to pass a regulation governing the payment of fees for commission work, etc. I think it is necessary for the whole of such needs to be seen and I think that it can and should be done next year in parallel with the arrangement and reform of the earnings that we do by implementing the Law on the Payment System. But it's a regulation that needs to be done with or through the Budgetary System Act, I think about the budget system, and maybe with the work on profits, but it's important to look at the overall problem and how to fix it. In any case, they should be regulated by law and it's important that the law here has made it clear who can and how, and these criteria you're talking about must be set in a uniform way for the whole system and it becomes more transparent than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52793	Thank you. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title and article of the 178th amendment. Members of the 178th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted to the title and Article 179 of the amendment. The title and article of the 180th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The title and article of the 181st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Members of the People's Parliaments Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and article 172. On the Glav and Article 173 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted together. At the title of Glava and Article 184 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP Lasslo Varga to Article 184. Members of the 184th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Balint Pasto, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zolatan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. + On the Head and Member of the 185th Amendment, the MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic submitted together. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 186 of the amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, together submitted the amendment to Article 186. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52794	Article 186 speaks of the transfer and deployment of the lessors. He says – the provisions of this Act on the transfer and deployment of officials are applied accordingly to the tenants. The transfer decision, i.e. the deployment of the lessor, shall be replaced by the law of the relevant provisions of the labour contract. The next point is that if the undersigned refuses to move, or deploy, and we add, when they do not need the consent of the tenant, he is denied the contract of employment. You continue to say – the employer is cancelled the contract of work when, as a result of the change of internal arrangement in the employer, there is no longer one job to be moved to, or deployed in accordance with its professional training. In the case of officials, the bill provides that refusal to transfer or deploy may be a cause of termination, but only in cases where no consent is required for transfer or deployment. Since it is referred to the same application of these provisions, there is no reason not to be a similar situation in the case of the tenant, so I ask you to consider and accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52795	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. At the title of Glava, Glava, title and Article 187 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 188th amendment. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 189 of the amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zolatan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article 190th of the amendment. On Glav, the title of Glava and Article 191 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted to the title of Glava and Article 192 of the amendment. At the title of Glava and Article 193 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted. At the title of Glava and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Komic together submitted. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 195 of the amendment. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment together. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 195 regulates the adoption of codes of conduct and says – the employer will bring the code of conduct of officials and deputies within one year of the application of this law. We have suggested that this member be changed, so it is said – the employer will bring the code of conduct of officials, officials and deputies within three months of the application of this law. The amendment proposes to introduce an obligation to adopt codes of conduct not only for officials and deputies, but also for officials, since this law is partly related to them and we have proposed a reduction of deadlines. The amendment, of course, was not accepted by reason that the bill only partially refers to the rights and duties of officials. Well, you're just trying to convince our argument again in an explanation. That's what we realized, that part of it applies to the officials and that only part of it doesn't mean they shouldn't be covered. Functions have their own scope of authority which is regulated by these and other regulations, and there is no interference with being covered by the code of conduct. It is one that is unfortunately in our midst an important act and, where luck has been given the code of conduct of the MPs as envisaged. That's what I have to say because I was in the Working Party for the adoption of that code. We were called up once, and that one meeting was canceled. So, if the ruling majority hadn't been willing to bring it in, and if it had been brought in, I think they'd have worked a lot better on one higher level and had more co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-03-02-0.u52797	Thank you. Mrs Hasanovic Korac, but only further information that there have been many meetings and that the draft has gone to the Council of Europe. Thank you. Together, MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 196 of the amendment. Members of the 197th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 198th amendment. The title and article of the 199th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and article of the 200th amendment. Members of the 200th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic submitted to the title and Article 201 of the amendment. The National MPs Balša Bozovic and Gordana Comic together submitted the title and Article 202 of the amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 202 by the MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments Balin Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Zoltan Peck and Anamaria Vicek. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the proposal in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, March 3, 2016, starting at 13.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister together with members of her cabinet, thank all the MPs, Mr Vanja Vukic, and thank all the employees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for having had to finish this session by this time, and thank you again to all the MPs. I'll see you tomorrow, actually today, at the vote.
