ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4538	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of the Parliament to insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 117 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Momo Colaković, Zarko Obradović, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, Milorad Mijatović, Meso Omerović and Jovan Jovanovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the drafts of the law according to points three to eight of the agenda. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4539	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable fellow Members of the People, the Honored Ministers with Associates, helps all. I'd like to point to article 97. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which in paragraph 3, says that the President, or representative of the parliamentary group, before the opening of the search, has the right to propose a longer search period for parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1(1). This proposal is being decided by the National Assembly by the majority of MPs at a session where most MPs are present without a search. So I would ask you, therefore, to allow for a longer period of time to search these six points of the agenda, especially because they are simply not connected to each other, they are not conditioned to each other, and therefore they should not be found in a joint search. The special theme of the Western Balkans fund requires that it be a special item of the agenda, and since yesterday's agenda is not made possible on the basis of the opposition's demands, I think this extension of the time for discussion would then be an appropriate solution, so that we could really commit ourselves worthy of this extremely important geopolitical point. It is simply impossible in one debate to discuss loans, contracts, loans and other economic issues...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4540	Ambassador, we were talking about a merger...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4541	and then move on to KIM, large Albania and geopolitical topics. So, please let us be clear on this and allow for longer discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4542	We will when the time comes. Since you're up early again to propose, I just have to finish first. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, Finance Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic. Other ministers have also been appointed, you have this in writing, there is no need for me to read if the powers are handed down in writing and of course the assistants, the officials of the authorised and competent ministers. We had a proposal from Ambassador Obradovic. Please state that we are extending the debate on these points of the agenda. Start the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 43, against – one, abstention – no one voted 112 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Budgetary Support Fund, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on the Loan of 1830/2014 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty "Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities III/B" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the NBS, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 1768/2012 between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the approval of the Fund for the Western Balkans with the Statute for the Western Balkans. Do the representatives of promoter Ivica Dacic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, and Dr Dusan Vujovic, the finance minister want to take a word in this part of the debate? Here you go. Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4543	Thank you very much, President. Dear MPs, let me just say a few sentences at the beginning of this debate on five loans that are now on the agenda and ask for ratification from parliament, or the Serbian Parliament. The first loan from Abu Dhabi's Development Fund is a billion-dollar loan, i.e. against the value of the dirhams. A billion dollars is equivalent to the dirhams. I'd like to point out that I've had a fixed course since 1997. So it's practically the same as being denominated in dollars. This loan is given for general support in the budget and assumes a continuation of fiscal consolidation in the way we have been implementing it for the last two years. The loan is granted under extremely favourable conditions, the interest rate is 2.25% and there are no other burdens. So, there's no front, there's no fiz, there's no other loads, everything's included in this add-on 0.25%, compared to the loan we pulled in August 2014. It is a loan that we have jointly agreed to be withdrawn in five tranches, for two and a half years every six months, which coincides with the maturity of our liabilities in the fourth quarter or second quarter of each year, on the one hand, and on the other hand, a change has been proposed in relation to the previous loan, so that we will have a flat, in equal terms, five years of six months of repayment, from 2021 to 2026. It is significantly better to 2.25% of the market conditions that Serbia today can get on the international market for loans of this kind or for bonds of this kind, so at 10 years, the best rate we could get is 4.40%. So this is almost half as much. As I said, the funds would be, provided today's ratification is made, the funds would be available before the end of this year and would help us finance the commitments made on dollar loans that have been taken over the past five, six years. I guess there will be questions, and then I'll give you more detailed information about how much we're saving, what loans we're replacing, and what are the purposes of these funds, whether they're financing the commitments they've made, whether they're refinanced or in the early closure of loans that are the most expensive. In my order here is the second largest, the Apex loan of the European Investment Bank. It is the fifth or sixth loan in line to support commercial banks to finance under more favourable conditions the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. An agent in the realisation of this loan is the NBS. Realisation is carried out through commercial banks according to already known criteria. This goes into public debt, but we don't carry any other risks, since commercial banks take on themselves the full risks of borrowers, the provision of credit and everything else. We're just using our presence and guarantee to lower the cost of these loans. So it's a proper and beneficial use of state guarantees. Contrary to some cases from our past, where guarantees are used to justify an increased interest rate, these guarantees lower the interest rate, thus allowing our companies which are the main source of employment and economic growth, both today and in the medium term, to obtain loans under favourable conditions, to assess the validity of these loans and that companies can compete with such loans on both domestic and international markets. The third loan is 69m euros. It's a World Bank loan relating to the promotion of public administration. The funds aren't big here, but the conditions are extremely favourable. It's a loan that currently has an interest rate of only 0.71%. There's a lot of presents in that loan. There is a five-year grace period, while the loan's assets are withdrawn within three years, following the fulfillment of the conditions that exist in the credit development matrix, and 12 years of repayment beyond that. So 17 years. These are practically budget costs insignificant. If you take that and discount at the commercial rate of 4.4%, which I already mentioned, then you'll get that gift over 50%. This is a credit which is intended directly to realise and support the realisation of public administration reform, to improve the quality of government's decision-making and to improve the realisation of those things that we have already committed, which are important to us, and not just to meet the conditions of Chapter 32, which is to improve financial control. I think this parliament will benefit greatly, as reporting, reporting quality and reporting regularity will be better and more reliable. The fourth-largest loan is a 17m-euro loan from the Council of Europe, aimed at financing the Kragujevac prison, to meet European standards in the quality of criminal and correctional institutions in all the standards they meet. Remember, we had two similar 18m-euro prison credits in Pancheva a year ago, this is 17m euros, and I think that this brings us closer to achieving those goals that we think we can and want to afford, which is that all prisoners have conditions comparable to those in Europe. Finally, the fifth credit on this list where today's ratification is expected is a loan that comes with a great delay. It is also a loan from the Council of Europe for the King, to eliminate the effects of the earthquake in the King six years ago. It took a long time to prepare projects, which means eightm euros intended for the settlement of socially endangered categories, not to mark only one or two groups. The goal is to raise economically efficient and energy-efficient eight-story residential buildings and to ensure a quality lifestyle and not just life, but education, to give them an equal chance to start up those communities, which were otherwise in difficult conditions, so they could not afford to their children the education and development of human potentials that they bring to the world. This is in short five loans, the first of which is intended for general budget support. Let me mention one thing to you, we'll have an opportunity to talk to you in detail later, and despite today's fact that we have a surplus, and even though today we are in a position to expect with our IMF colleagues that we will have a deficit this year that will be twice as small as projected, we still need funding, to finance our commitments and to refinance those commitments that come early. Of the 23.24 billion, roughly, roughly roughly roughly, roughly, roughly, roughly, roughly every year if we don't have enough to get those loans back right away, then we refinance them under the most favourable conditions, we return the principal or finance interest. This loan allows us to create a natural "hedge" and not directly affect the budget, i.e. to be deployed for the next 10 years. This credit for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises is extremely important, as most of the countries in the world are building a pyramid of economic power, these companies are being raised by entrepreneurship, new jobs are being created there, and not all companies are surviving. Therefore, this is a model that supports both entrepreneurship and job creation in Serbia and maintaining economic growth in the medium term. I just want to inform you that we have already agreed on this, that we expect a 3% growth rate in the following year. Therefore, the loan directly supports these trends, supports expectations that foreign investors will have a good environment in Serbia. yesterday's published information that we have climbed to as much as 47th place on the "During Business" list confirms that we are permanently improving the investment climate in Serbia and improving the conditions for realising investments. Finally, this loan to the Public Administration shows that we will be ready and we will implement public sector reform in full and that we have enough resources to bridge all the potential trunks and costs that this is causing, although this credit is intended for general budget support. It does not finance individual cost elements. Part of these costs are financed from the parallel grant of Europe, i.e. technical assistance provided by the European Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4544	The word has Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4545	I thank the president. Since Minister Vujovic spoke of these other laws, let me say a few words about the bill on the validation of the Fund for the Western Balkans, with the Statute of the Fund for the Western Balkans. The Western Balkans Fund is based on the model of the International Multicity Fund established in 2000, with the aim of helping develop co-operation and fostering the development of civil society relations, academic sector and citizens through joint projects, and the main areas planned to promote and develop cultural co-operation, promote and develop exchanges in the fields of science, research and co-operation in the field of education, promotion and development of youth exchange, promotion of sustainable development, etc. It's about six parties. Please pay attention to the terminology used, precisely because someone would not interpret it as a matter of states. It's about the parties and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4546	Be kind enough to let the minister speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4547	Since Mr. Zivkovic's already found out he's throwing, I'll remind him, he just walked in and immediately found out he's throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4548	Minister, just give me an introduction, let go of the discards. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Come on, Minister, don't throw it to the MPs and to the senior MPs.) The MPs first began to receive the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4549	Well, you just threw it away. I'm sorry if you didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4550	I'll start with a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I accept your apology. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4551	I thought I recognized your voice. I'm really sorry, but I think I heard it from the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4552	There's no replica. Get serious. I would ask the MPs to make themselves abundant and to do something serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4553	That's exactly why I wanted to point out that you're accessing this discussion seriously. Why? Because the DS has just signed a regional representation and co-operation agreement in its former capacity. This agreement is signed on the basis of what you signed, Borko Stefanovic, please show it. You want me to read it to you. Mr. Bogdanovic and you took part in that. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Please, let's get some control. Therefore, do not pass it on to me. I'll read you... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4554	MPs, do you want to hear the opening statement of Minister Dacic or not? If you don't feel like listening, you have time to have a cup of coffee and come back. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4555	I'm not running away from plowing. I'm on my way to the discussion, you're starting to throw, I'm answering your questions. Don't throw it away, I won't answer to you at all. If you think I'm going to keep my mouth shut while you're talking to me, then you've found the wrong one. I've been sitting in those benches for 25 years and I know exactly how the Assembly works.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4556	It's a minute's break. So, either we do it seriously. I ask the opposition MPs not to insult the speakers. Please, I've heard, it was immediately in the beginning of a throw and it was very ugly. I don't care what party, or what party I said. We're either gonna do this seriously or we're gonna turn this into a voluntary singing society, so we can joke. It's been a minute. A minute went by when I said so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4557	I thank the president. As I said, on February 24, 2012, our delegation for negotiations with Pristina, led by Borislav Stefanovic, agreed, signed this agreement on regional representation, which makes it very clear that Kosovo is the only name, Kosovo with a star, the only name to be used in regional co-operation. Point 5 of the agreement reads: "When the new agreements are initialled and signed, Kosovo's representative will be signed under the name of the above-mentioned parameters." So, ladies and gentlemen, if there's anything you'd like to dispute, then you've made a little bit of a mistake. As for the Serbian government, it acted in line with the government's 2012 decisions. Accordingly, the most important thing for us is that I don't attack that agreement, that we understand each other, that I don't attack that agreement because it allows one situation that we can function in conditions where the legal status of certain issues and the subject is problematic. In that sense, I will say that under this agreement Kosovo has achieved membership in a number of regional organisations, various agreements and agreements have been signed in this way with this representation of Kosovo and if you want my personal opinion, it is good to have someone else stick to it. The European Union continues to stick to that in its document. We have a major problem that Kosovo is applying and achieving membership in international organisations without any star or footnote. So don't think that now that we're talking about it, we're talking about the Western Balkans Fund now helping to achieve Kosovo's statehood. In addition, you know well that the Serbian government is asymmetrically marked when signing this document, not only is Kosovo marked asymmetry, which is very important, asymmetrically compared to other participants with the star and footnote. So, not as Kosovo wants, as they say in the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo, but Kosovo with a star and footnote. Independently, the Republic of Serbia has given an interpretative statement and a declaration that is always given in such events so that someone does not misread it. When signing this document, it was signed and submitted and entered into the documentation of an interpretative statement by Serbia, which says – since Kosovo and Metohija's territory is part of the Republic of Serbia and, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244, is under international administration, signing, expression of consent to the commitment of Serbia and or the government of Kosovo to an agreement establishing the Western Balkans Fund cannot be interpreted as recognising Kosovo's independence or thus forming a contractual relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo within the meaning of the Vienna Treaty Law rule of 1969, which regulates the matter of completion and enforcement of interstate contracts. The completion and enforcement of the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans does not in any way prejudge the issue of Kosovo's status as well as the competence or authority of the UN and KFOR Special Representative in accordance with Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo. No action taken by the Government of Kosovo with a star or a temporary institution of self-government in Kosovo during the conclusion and implementation of this Agreement can be considered valid if it exceeds the frameworks for the authority of temporary institutions or incurs powers and duties reserved for the UN Secretary-General's special representative. So, with this interpretative statement, Serbia signed this document. Other participants, including Kosovo, did not have their interpretative statement on our interpretative statement. I mean, if anyone thinks it's an easy situation in this area, I think we need to understand that Kosovo has become a member of the Olympic Committee without stars and footnote. Kosovo has become a member of various international organisations. They applied to UNESCO without stars and footnotes. Therefore, if you think that this agreement on stars and footnote should be attacked, I don't think it should be attacked and I haven't even spoken here right now to attack someone else, but to say that it was based on the dialogue that the Serbian government has been continuing to lead all these years with representatives of Pristina. From another ancient, diplomacy means sitting at the table even when our chair is uncomfortable. Absents are always guilty. In this situation, I will also remind you here that we have adopted an agreement and ratified an agreement in the Serbian Parliament on visa waiver with Makao. There are non-standard situations in the world, when it comes to the work of an international community or territory whose formal legal status is under a certain sign of question and which we interpret in one way and which some countries in the world interpret in another way. It also applies to Kosovo itself. If you have closely monitored how Kosovo has signed and how it has even been discussed with Kosovo about the SAA, Kosovo's position is very different from all the others in Europe. There are five EU member states that have not recognised Kosovo and it is not possible for the EU to have the same legal framework with Kosovo as the others. For example, the European Commission has concluded a Stabilisation Association Agreement with Kosovo. It has not been concluded by the Member States, which is a mandatory procedure for the conclusion of such an agreement with the Member States. The agreement is not ratified in the national parliaments of the Member States, such as the ratified SAA with Serbia and other countries, but only in the European Parliament. So, everyone is aware of Kosovo's asymmetric position, and that is exactly what this Fund's initiative for the Western Balkans is, and it is not the only one, to understand, that there are other initiatives that are similarly formulated. When I say formulated, the remarks refer to the way Kosovo is marked, whether it should be concluded, should not, whether it has the status of international contracts or not, given that Kosovo is part of our territory. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Kosovo Unit or Kosovo and Metohija? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4558	Don't throw it away, I'm really gonna punish you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4559	Kosovo and Metohija, of course, is our constitutional formulation. Here I am talking about a term agreed as a term for regional representation, because it is better Kosovo than "the Republic of Kosovo". You know what, I think I'm the last person in this world that you have to talk to in this way, given, you know that my party and I personally, we're marked all over the world as, Malten, war criminals. And now don't just salt my mind about national and state interests. Perhaps you can do that to some others, but certainly I did, and all I could do to make sure that Kosovo didn't pass into UNESCO, just because it's not easy, you know, you think it's numbers. It's not just numbers, it needs to convince every country to come and vote against Kosovo, because that's the only way it counts. Every abstention is in fact a voice for Kosovo's entry. Many of our great friends have had, I can talk about it at the Committee on Foreign Policy session or whatever you want, I can tell you exactly how every country acted. It was a lacmus paper for me to know how to treat Kosovo and Serbia, because, on the other hand, you can't expect someone to be bigger, to protect Serbia more than we do sometimes, especially because we haven't had any contact with some countries in 20 years. They're countries, someone might laugh, someone might say I'm not modern, but they're countries that were friendly at the time of the Unclassified Movement, Tito and everyone else, and we, of course, abandoned it. We even called the savages for a while after 2000. I don't know who, and so when we talk, when I take my word for it, let me say this, too, since we're talking about Chapter 31. Serbia does not seek the opening of Chapter 31. The quick opening of Chapter 31 requires those who want to force Serbia to bring its foreign policy into line with EU foreign policy as soon as possible. And I'll tell you exactly what that means. We didn't join 12 I mean a girl or an EU statement. I'll tell you what the statements and the girls are, so if anyone thinks we should have joined, then really, I'll admit we were wrong. But in this situation, now that I've spoken earlier, when I'm chasing, when we need stable support on the international agenda so that Kosovo doesn't become a member of the UN, we can't afford such a luxury to vote against those who support us in it. The statements that we have not joined relate, first of all, to restrictive measures against Russia, because of Ukraine, then to developments in the South China Sea, it is against China, another girl on the decision of a permanent arbitration court, on the dispute between the Philippines and China, then on the situation in Syria in Aleppo, of course, you know that there is a conviction of Russia, a girl on elections in the Republic of Congo. It's all that, maybe it's far and it's nice and we can plead against it, but you know, if a month before that you have a major diplomatic action to force those countries to vote for you at the UNESCO General Conference. So you think they don't read that, that we're going to join their conviction here in the EU? And why would we do that? To open a chapter in October, not December. I think Serbia has its own national and state interests and so I would ask you not to see this issue, this fund as a central issue of jeopardizing our territorial integrity and sovereignty. I wish in this way our territorial integrity and sovereignty with the star were compromised. The star is already past in Europe. And footnote, unfortunately. It's already past, and we have to be aware of that, but I think there are certain red lines that Serbia cannot cross when it comes to our national and state interests. And when it comes to the Visegrad Group, I also want to tell you that the group consists of four countries: Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. Among them are Slovakia, a country that voted against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. I must say, Romania and Greece were restrained. Poland, which recognised Kosovo, was restrained. We have been greatly improved by relations with this Visegrad group, also with Hungary, which, I think, that at least three of these four countries at the next General Conference will certainly not vote for Kosovo. It's something we should be working on. They initiated this Fund for the Western Balkans and are given 30,000 euros annually. I mean, to be honest, this is more about symbolic things than something that's going to make a big economic advantage of it, but it's not the only initiative. There is also the Regional Youth Office, there are many other initiatives that are present and that is why Serbia should stick to what is signed, this way of regional representation. On this basis, all documents in the EU are issued with a star and footnote. I think we should fight to keep it that way. I would be happy if Kosovo applied with a star and footnote to UNESCO. But it's unacceptable for them, more unacceptable. We need to be aware of that. We can't live in the belief that everything depends on us. We do everything we can on our part and we don't cross the red line, which we would admit ourselves, that we ourselves admit that they're the contractual side and that they're the state. That is why Serbia will not do so, and it was important to give this interpretative statement as well. I assure you that Serbia will not change its state policy when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, which is that we are in favour of dialogue, but we will certainly not deviate from our national and state interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4560	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4561	Since you've united this debate, in the first part, I would refer to these financial contracts. The main problem with these contracts is that these are contracts where we are in debt and these are contracts that are all in line with the policy of 5 October 2000 – if you want to go to the EU, you have to be in charge. How's the borrowing going? The debt is fully non-critical and Serbia today owes three thousand billion dinars, which to international banks, which to commercial banks, and that is the result of politics -- goes to the EU at all costs. And these five laws don't differ from the laws that were on the agenda ten years ago and five years ago, that's the same thing. The interesting thing is that for these laws, that is, for these international agreements, the only one who is authorized to sign them is the finance minister, according to the Public Debt Act. However, the agreement on the Abu Dhabi Development Fund was signed by Foreign Minister. Well, that could be a slight flaw. But a much greater disadvantage is that all these financial contracts, which we have on the agenda today, and that follow the laws, the bill of confirmation, the ratification, can't actually be defined. Here, let me draw attention to the Public Debt Act. The Public Debt Act knows the borrowing to maintain liquid liquidity, and then knows the laws to finance the budget deficit, and then knows the borrowing to refinance, though, knowing and borrowing for investment projects. If we apply this law code, which is binding, then as far as Abu Dhabi is concerned, you've said about the stability of the budget support system, and we hear every day that we're doing dirty good, we're not missing anything, but we're being overrun. Well, then with this second one, it's a project and some program loan to make apartments in Pic small in the King, and it's some kind of project, some kind of investment. Then this third one is the modernisation of public administration. Is that an investment, what is it? That's 69m euros again. Well, the next one's about a prison in Kragujevac. He's probably also a software and investment loan for development. Then we have this last one, where the practical government of the Republic of Serbia is a pass-by place for commercial banks to get loans to place them in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a fourth or fifth loan. We are approaching the total value of a billion euros. Something would have to be seen if it had happened well. Unfortunately, you can't see it. As far as the Budget Law is concerned, you've covered it all as a reservation for us to be in charge this year. And that's what Serbia is doing, and that's what Serbia is doing, uncontrollable borrowing, and we haven't received a single report yet under the law regarding the conclusion of international contracts, where the government is telling us what's going on with these funds and how these funds have been spent. Now, let's go to this much more important draft law, which is the bill on the validation of the Western Balkan Fund, with the Western Balkan Fund statute. So, Visegrad Group, it's the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland, and according to this latest information, they're expressing some suspicion of whether the EU exists anymore, whether it's a more good place, so we even had that referendum in Hungary. Everyone is unhappy, not only because of this migrant crisis, but because of the huge crisis in the EU. But that's their problem. We are now in a position for those who do not believe much in the EU to pressure Serbia to sign an agreement on the establishment of a fund for the Western Balkans. That's how it happened. Let me just say that this agreement was signed in Prague on 13 November 2015. On behalf of Albania, the agreement was signed by Minister Ditmir Busati, on behalf of BiH Minister Igor Crnadak, on behalf of Kosovo Minister Hashim Thaci, on behalf of Macedonia Minister Nikola Popeski, on behalf of Montenegro Minister Igor Luksic, on behalf of Serbia Minister Ivica Dacic, six parties in terms of internationally recognised subjectivity. Who signed on behalf of the parties? Powered ministers, state officials, top state officials. Foreign ministers, by definition, are, if I may say so, the second man of the executive government, the second man of the government leading internal and external policy, the Government that corresponds to the National Assembly and citizens as the bearers of sovereignty for the conduct of internal and external policies. So today we are in the field of foreign policy: international relations, six contracting parties, six international entities. How's that with these subjects now? It's indisputable for these five. It's slow this sixth. He's not controversial about the footnote, he's not controversial about the star. It is absolutely controversial from the point of view of Resolution 1244, but most of all it needs to be disputed from Serbia's point of view, because Serbia does not recognise an independent terrorist Kosovo that is made by the NATO Pact and the European Union, and we are heading towards the European Union. Seven years ago, I explained here that Serbia was then in the SAA process, but in the same process there was a Kosovo without a star, without footnote, without everything and everything. So far, some agreements have been made, and signed, and are not signed at the level of the Executive Authority's representatives. This is the first document to be submitted in accordance with the Law on the conclusion of international contracts, in accordance with our Law on the conclusion of international contracts. We gave this agreement the treatment of an international contract. We admitted that this was an international contract. This Agreement is concluded in one copy in the common language for all Contracting Parties, and that is the English language. The depositary of this international agreement -- Albania has provided everyone with a photocopy of what they signed in one copy, and we have received an English and Serbian version, in accordance with our law, to implement the ratification process in the National Assembly. Ratification means we accept, we official. Ratification means we're committed. When you vote for this, you made a commitment, you made a commitment to Serbia. What did you commit to? To everything that's written in the contract, with the addition of this statute. The idea is that the agreement is possible because there is a star next to the name Kosovo. Where else does that exist? Nowhere. Furthermore, the parties to the contract must have international and legal subjectivity and legitimacy, because otherwise they cannot talk about an international contract. He's being locked up by strangers. We don't conclude this agreement with some domestic, then it wouldn't come to ratification, but we're closing with abroad. How is it possible when only the United Nations do so according to Resolution 1244 on Kosovo and Metohija? They're just doing the United Nations. The fact that the UK accepts terrorist Kosovo as an equal partner is their problem, their right. We have no right to accept them that way. We have no right to give them international and legal subjectivity. If we give them international and legal subjectivity, how in the Security Council will they fight for our rights? They will tell us, so why do you ask us to be greater Serbs than you? Why would the Russian Federation be a stronger protector of Serbs and ideas of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia than the National Assembly that accepts with a star, without a star? That's completely pointless. In international law, it doesn't mean anything, and I'm going to come to that part to explain to you, since there have been such examples in practice. In 2005, something similar was on the Turkish-European Union route, so the European Union dumped Turkey. The ratification of this Agreement, in addition to the influence it has on these six parties which it obliges, obliges third parties to act on all sides. That was the case in history with Greenland, so some court ruled because a minister said in his statement that Denmark had more rights. Furthermore, by ratifying this Agreement, the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia agree to be bound by this Agreement and this Statute, regardless of the five, six points of co-operation do not concern the state-of-the-art. Here I agree, in the area of culture, etc., but we have experience in the NATO Pact-European Union's relation to Serbia. It's always kind of cloudy for us. You know, we can get a slap, so we can pretend like we didn't get it, but we got it. We're not gonna fix this situation much better. We have to resist this. Furthermore, in addition to having an impact on all other international and legal entities that are not contracting parties, the question is really asked – how can they defend our view of not recognising Kosovo, if this unrecognized Kosovo is the conclusion of such an agreement and is also ratified? Ratification is an act that applies only to foreign relations. We don't ratify anything here about internal relations and internal rights and if foreign contractors are domestic legal entities. According to the information published so far, this Agreement ratified Kosovo on 22 March 2016 and by a procedure applicable in BiH to their presidency on 12 July 2016. I'm sorry, I don't have any other information on whether anyone else has ratified it, whether it is or not, and why we're in a hurry. Why didn't you tell us to be the sixth to carry out the ratification? Why should we be third or fourth? Why are we in a hurry? I don't know where that need comes from. Probably some dates on this road to the EU process, the development of good neighbourly relations with Kosovo and Metohija, with terrorist Kosovo, is probably some political reason, some major pressure. You put up with that pressure if you can put up with it, if you can't stand the pressure to resign. Pressure cannot be an excuse to violate the issue of sovereignty and territorial integrity, especially in the way Serbia agrees and Serbia commits itself. In Article 3. The proposal for a ratification law is a declaration which is neither a reserve nor an interpretative statement, and in particular is not a so-called conditional interpretation statement. Now let me explain to you what it looks like in practice. We had something similar in 2008, when it was a ratification of the SAA, and then we submitted such a statement that it refers to the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, as part of the Republic of Serbia. Thank God, we were divided into those who love the European Union and those who do not love the European Union. Now these agreements are being pushed by those who love the European Union. Article 12. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is prescribed that the ratification law contains the reserves of declarations and these interpretative statements in relation to the international contract, which are to be made in accordance with the provisions of the contract itself. In the international agreement you signed and in this statute there is no possibility of putting any kind of reserve, there is no. The most important thing is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits this from happening. I will only refer to one provision, which is the 167th point of point 2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Constitutional Court decides on the consent of approved international agreements with the Constitution. This bill on ratification of this agreement is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow terrorist Kosovo to be a contractual party. The legal importance of the declaration, and this, alleged reserve you put in place, can best serve an example when Turkey submitted in one of the EU agreements on July 29th 2005 a declaration not to interpret the signing as recognition of Cyprus. The EU then issued a statement that the declaration, a statement, did not form part of the protocol. In translation it means - we don't care, you signed, you made a commitment, you admitted it, you'll have to respect it. I think at this point, it's best that this item of the agenda withdraws. It is good to conduct this debate, to send a message to the whole world that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of all the pressures, that you may be under pressure, but MPs are not under pressure, they raise their voice. Citizens have given part of sovereignty to this group of 250 people, these 250 people interpret the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in a similar way as I did, to go with a strong and clear message and we will be stronger, and to block the admission into international organisations we will also have stronger protection and better partners in the Security Council that will defend us and protect us. Not to have a situation that was in December 2008. Remember, Tadic agreed, and with one presidential letter Eulex came to Kosovo and Metohija. How does this work in international relations? Well, you see for yourself. President Dodik is leading the fight to restore those powers to Dayton Republika Srpska. What does the High Representative say? He can't. You agreed when you gave, and there's no going back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4562	You're bringing the end of your colleague Krasic. Thank you. The People's MP, Marija Jevdzic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4563	Thank you. We have six draft laws on the agenda today. I'll tell everyone about something, but I'll put an accent on the bill confirming the loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, that is, its importance for the city from which I come, and that is the City of the Kingdom. This loan refers to the project of the urban generation of Dosite Street in the King, and is being conducted to eliminate the result of the earthquake that hit the Kingdom and central parts of Serbia in 2010 and the state and structure of the facilities located in the village. Most of these facilities were designed for the housing of workers who worked at the Car Factory and Magnochroma, which are intended for singles, but were later created by families that live here today. Otherwise, in an earthquake that struck the King in 2010, some 24,000 buildings were damaged in addition to human lives, and about 500 new houses were built, and dozens of residential buildings were completely reconstructed. The first idea was that the project was realised with slightly less than 30m euros, or 650 apartments, but later the current project, which was projected at about 13.5m euros, or 366 apartments located in four new eight-story buildings in the Pic small residential settlement on Dosite Street. In fact, the amount of 13.5m euros would be distributed 60% and the state's participation would take an eightm-euro loan, and the town of Kralje would invest about 5m euros and 40%, respectively, through the production of infrastructure. The state is in charge, implementing the project through the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure and through the city of Kraljev, which has appointed a project management unit for the project and project commission. The town of Kraljevo has expropriated the entire land, made plans, made a project for the entire settlement, conducted a land survey, obtained a permit to build infrastructure on the land of the future settlement, and thus created conditions for the construction of the first phase. I think that since the end of 2013, when a feasibility study was carried out, until today, when we discuss this agreement in this high house, the most demanding process was to collect the necessary consent of all the owners of the apartments, i.e. the agreement of 366 families that were to agree and agree on this project, i.e. to agree on the wishes of the tenants and the possibilities of this project. The largest number of pre-contracts has been signed, and all based on the emergency documentation, since there were apartments that had no documentation to be owned by owners, and the fact is that laws, standards have been changed multiple times since the time of construction. The city came out to meet the owners and helped them collect all the necessary documentation. The apartments are changing square by square, with the fact that I already mentioned that the apartments were dysfunctional and that they were mostly 12 square meters in size, and since, under the new law, the housing unit cannot be less than 27 square meters, many families will be able to expand their living spaces. The difference in squares will be able to buy or buy at favourable prices. Once again, it is good that the funds received through this route will be used by the City of Kraljevo to build new housing units. I can conclude that the City of Kraljevo in the highest percentage in co-operation with the restoring ministries, especially with the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure, has resisted the challenges and created the conditions for today's agreement to be on the agenda and hope to ratify, which is certainly beyond the needs of the citizens of Dosite Street. Realisation of this project is also seen as a chance to activate a construction operation that was one of the best in the former Yugoslavia, as well as private firms that have made an image in this area lately. I'll come out of the subject, I must mention that at one point the King received about 30,000 internally displaced persons, of which 20,000 remained in the King. The reason for their arrival is certainly terrible, because they were exiled from their hearths, the King is welcome, but you can imagine what a blow to the existing infrastructure in the King, which at that moment had about 80,000 inhabitants. I think that because of this, the King deserves support, as well as the citizens of Dosite Street and I believe in supporting all colleagues, because by ratifying the agreement, it would allow the citizens of Dosite better standards in terms of housing, but also a chance for the city to create new values by realising this project. Gratitude certainly to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the restoring ministries, because they recognized the needs of the kings and residents of Dosite Street. I want to take this opportunity and remind myself that it is necessary to put Morava airport into operation as soon as possible, which would be a great potential for the King and cities in the environment. This would attract new investors and create favourable conditions for job creation, which are necessary in that part of Serbia. As for the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for the Development of Abu Dhabi, for budgetary support, we heard from Minister Vujovic that this loan will not affect the growth of public debt, that it will be intended for budget support, or that we will finance or existing commitments on due loans or simply pay interest or combine. The credit is at 10 years, with a five-year grace period and a five-year repayment rate of 2.25%. In case that, and I hope to ratify this agreement, credit will be available to us in December 2016 or January 2017. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Apeks Treaty, a loan for small and medium-sized enterprises, it should be said that it is one of the best types of lending. This creates conditions for the growth of the credit supply of small and medium-sized enterprises and provides favourable sources for the financing of their projects. It is very important to note that the paper of this credit line is an initiative called "Works for Young Western Balkans" that the European Investment Bank wants to support small and medium-sized enterprises that promote youth employment. At the end of my presentation, I would like to stress that the JS parliamentary group will support the draft laws we are discussing today, as well as the other draft laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4564	The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4565	I'm afraid there are no previous speakers in the O.R., but I have to do the truth, for the sake of facts, for the sake of the viewers and others to offer the following information. Of all that is said, it is true that the debt is approximately three thousand billion, which is 70.8% of the social product on the day of September 30, 2016. It is also true, as we said in the previous debate, that the debt was 24.8m euros on 1 January this year i.e. that the debt has been reduced by 650m euros for the first nine months of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4566	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go. You're not finished? I'm sorry, buddy. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4567	I'm sorry I'm not finished, please. So that's a fact. It is also a fact that for the first nine months of this year we had a surplus in the republican budget and a small, probably close balance of the general government budget. Which means the debt requirement is zero due to the deficit for the first nine months. So, it's completely consistent, one is cattle, that is. The level of obligation, the second is the current. We don't need new credits for the deficit for the first nine months. By the end of the year, as you remember well, and if some parties were not in parliament, it's public information, you have a budget. The republic's budget planned about 120 billion, which is about a billion euros in deficit. We're making a surplus right now. We expect by the revised numbers that the general government deficit will be, not 160, but 80, half smaller. So instead of a billion and I don't know how much, calculate me, a billion and 350m euros will be 700m euros. So that's that 600 million, 700 million euros we've already saved. Very important, it must be known in public, that in the report on the budget, as well as every year, we will write all of this, that all of these figures are on the Public Debt Administration website, which is on the Ministry of Information site, that reports on the situation are submitted in each project, per annual realisation and the overall implementation of projects. Therefore, you have no right to give the impression that anyone is hiding anything. What's very important is, if it's necessary, I'll come to the committees to discuss all this. So, ignorance here, as you eloquently speak of the right here, ignorance does not justify anyone. The last flaw of this country is to be in debt. We're reducing debt. The last thing we can blame is the irresponsible spending of money. We report everything in detail what you ratify, this with full agreements from "a" to "s" confirms it. I don't think it's right to make an impression, that absolutely ignores the facts, this isn't a team worse by the fact, this is a team worse for you. This really isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4568	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4569	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing six points in a united debate, two of which, such as the Western Balkans Fund and other responsibilities, have nothing to do with it, but that is probably something you have decided to do to make it easier on both sides. As for the duties to be decided today, I don't understand some things, Minister Vujovic, and it seems to me that sometimes you are contradictory in your statements. I appreciate some of the facts you're making here, but there are some things I don't understand. So, as for the financial situation and the budget, I will quote the prime minister from one of his press conferences on 1 August 2016. He said -- "Serbia has achieved a surplus of 22 billion dinars in the first seven months of 2016, i.e. around 170m euros and the state of public debt is much better, which is why there is no need for increased borrowing. “ The end of the quote. That was three months ago. Today we are in debt for a billion dollars from the Abu Dhabi Fund and another 224m euros for other purposes. Now I have to ask – are we needlessly in debt or not? Simply for the sake of public and liability, because in the previous period we saw an economic policy that implies taking from the population through a reduction in wages, through a reduction in pensions, by reducing funds to municipalities and cities in Serbia by 33 billion in continuity from 2011 to today, and parallel to this borrowing. The indisputable fact is that the governments you have led, or Prime Minister Vukic, to date, have entrusted Serbia with 10 billion. It's undeniable. Is 100, 200 million up, it changes depending on the period of the year. I ask the question now, if the total deficit is 50% lower than what you planned, Minister Vujovic, and what was your goal for this year, why are we additionally in debt? I will remind you too, you also said and said that the objective of taking credit from Abu Dhabi's Development Fund is to reduce the overall budget deficit to 2%. I'll tell you now and what the fiscal council said. According to a report by the Fiscal Council of September, the state of the state register in the first seven months of 2016 was estimated to be extremely favourable, making the overall deficit of this year about 2% instead of the planned 4%. Since you've achieved your goal, there's no reason for additional citizens' debt because in 10 years, someone's gonna have to pay it back. When you say it's not really a loan, it's a gift, it's a good thing it's a gift, and we'd probably all be here today if someone wanted to give Serbia a billion dollars. But it's not a gift, it's a loan that someone will repay under favourable conditions, but it's a loan. There's no such thing as a gift. Therefore, the reason for the loan also states that the objective of the loan is to support Serbia's economic development by reducing the cost of financing and improving the economic situation in the country. Now we've heard from you that we've had a surplus in the first seven months, that at the end of the year we're going to have a smaller deficit, and that's a skillful manipulation of economic parameters that perhaps economists who are dealing with it can recognize, but on the other hand, citizens will understand that, but something later when they look at the situation in their wallets. As far as the situation in the economy is concerned, one of the parameters and the most serious arguments is how it moved and how the GDP of the Republic of Serbia is moving today, and I will make it public and because we all have to be responsible I will remind you from 2000 to today how GDP was moving in the Republic of Serbia. So, from the government of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in 2001, we had GDP growth. The government raised GDP by over six billion, with 19.9 billion over three years of government. Since Kostunica's government in 2004, GDP growth has continued, raised to 29.5 billion, an increase of nearly 10 billion by four years or 2.5 billion annually, with a parallel decrease in public debt cut to 8.7 billion at the time of Kostunica's government. Then, in 2008, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic also continued GDP growth to 33.4 billion, which is almost 4 billion for four years or a billion years of growth with a debt of seven billion in terms of the global economic crisis when and much stronger economies fought against us. In 2012, the government of Prime Minister Dacic also continued GDP growth, though slightly smaller, by two years by a billion or 500 million annually to 34.3 billion, but with five billion foreign debt increases. During the two years of Vucic's government, since 2014, for the first time in Serbia's history, GDP has no growth, but has a significant decrease of 1.4 billion. So that's the result of production in Serbia, and it's down to 32.9 billion, in December 2015. So these are facts and it's a state of mind in the Serbian economy. Manipulations with deficits, budget benefits, surpluses, arguments that it's a gift, not a loan, don't stand. How citizens live will be best felt by them and this shows how many people leave the country annually, how many factories are open, it will be seen for GDP. When the country's GDP begins to grow then we will be able to talk about the results you have achieved by bringing in the investors and the economic policy you have so far represented. Also, we didn't get an answer for the first billion we've already pulled. So this isn't the first one, this is the second billion we're pulling from the UAE. It was also said that with that billion, we would refinance expensive loans. Our citizens know very well what it means to refinance, since they barely make ends meet and they have to go into a variety of financial transactions with commercial banks, they know that when you take a cheap loan to get some expensive ones back, that it's a breakthrough. I ask you, Minister Vujovic, though you were not the finance minister at the time, but the government then said that the billion are being taken to refinance expensive loans. We didn't get a report until today, and you just said we'd get a budget report. We didn't get, as MPs, Mr. Minister, a budget report for 2015, and now we're in October at the end of this year. So we can't talk about what's going to happen to new responsibilities if we don't even know what we did with our previous assignment. So, that billion went on, we don't know what, because we don't have any absolutely answers to those questions. As for the other loans we raise, you said that it is a small amount of 69m euros taken for public administration, for optimization and modernisation, that it is a gift, that it is a small loan, 69m euros to be spent on various courses, education, equipment, Minister Vujovic, has been translated into practice somewhere around 2,000 housing units of 60m squares, simply so that citizens have a parameter of as many as 69m euros that we take to reform public administration. As far as loans for small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, that loan is justified. Given that you have declared this year for a year of entrepreneurship, it would be high time, because that year is already passing, for both small and medium-sized enterprises to feel some good in the government's economic policy, and not for your policy to be directed mainly by helping foreign investors by giving money from half-empty budgets and money measured by tens of thousands of euros per employee. Other projects we also don't have an answer to are e.g. And the irrigation channel, for which we, at least that's what Prime Minister Vukic said and then as Deputy Prime Minister, got $100 million for irrigation from the UAE. Is this project implemented? It's not. What about the investment of Mubadala? Also a major announcement said that on 20 September 2013, the prime minister said a memorandum of understanding would be signed in the coming days, then in the next six weeks and a contract for the Mubadala company at the Research Centre. The company would invest about 400 million in the Centre. Thereafter, Arab investors were announced for Morava Airport, then for a hotel in Kopalnik, where you don't even have a shovel on the site today. I come from central Serbia, I am an MP representing that part of Serbia, that location of the former "Yugobanka" that gave to the Arabs is completely empty today. There's nothing on the construction site. Not to mention investment and investment in "Belgrade on Water" and epochal announcements that 200,000 workers will be employed there, etc. As for the Western Balkan Fund, of course we also pass this law by emergency procedure, as well as many others that this home brings through an urgent procedure without adequate explanation. We are bringing it in as an emergency procedure because Albania and Montenegro have already done so. It is said in this explanation that we are bringing it by emergency procedure in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the international commitments undertaken, and the Western Balkans Fund as a regional character organisation should work to promote cross-border and international co-operation. It further explains that we need to adopt it by an urgent procedure, because the security and equipped premises of the trust secretaries in Tirana and the bank's open account are provided. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 99(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that the National Assembly confirms international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. So it's an international contract that we here today need to give consent to. The contract is not disputed, but it is a controversial contradiction policy. The government's controversial policy, i.e., we heard a short time ago from Minister Dacic about the interpretation of the asymmetric appearance of Kosovo in an agreement, or Kosovo with a star, but when Kosovo received that star, the SNS coalition partners strongly condemned the act, and today they will vote here to confirm one of the agreements where Kosovo stands with the star. Also, in the previous period, we listened to various reports of what is happening in the Brussels agreements, and what was most impressive and for most Serbian citizens, it is certainly that in one of the rounds of negotiations we came out as absolute winners with 5-0. Our advantage of 5-0 on the visiting or home terrain seems to be slowly beginning to lose. We see this in the case of property, the most recent case where we see what both Brussels and Pristina are related to Trepca, Telekom, and most likely in the next period will be the Gas pipelines and the financing of the Serb municipalities community. These are all topics that will be opened. The question is, do Serbian citizens know the full truth? I have not yet been able to learn this, as a citizen of Serbia and as a national MP, but we are getting information that at some point corresponds to the government. You have to tell the truth what was signed in Brussels. In terms of Belgrade, Pristina and Brussels, I conclude that there are major unresolved issues and it is shown in practice that all concessions made by Belgrade and all agreements signed by Belgrade and Pristina interpreted as having agreed that the property in Kosovo belongs to the authorities in Pristina. Of course, we now sign another agreement that does not mean Kosovo's recognition, but is one step in that direction. Be honest and tell the citizens of Serbia what policy you stand for. Minister Dacic's partners, who have now voted not to make Kosovo a member of UNESCO, our countries that were against, friendly countries, will ask – why should we vote against it in the future if you sign agreements with Kosovo? It must be made clear what is our path and what is with Kosovo's status. The contradictory policy is likely to cost Serbia and Serbian citizens Trepce and Gazivod. I invite you today to explain to the citizens what is signed in Brussels, whether you gave up your property or not, and what we can expect as a result of the Brussels negotiations and the Brussels Agreement in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4570	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Miroslav Mircic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4571	Mr. Chairman, I am Milorad Mircic, Miroslav gave me the name of formerly Mira Markovic, and it ended infamously, don't be a tradition of this. My full name is Milorad Mircic. I'm advertising a breach of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, from the earlier presentation of Mr. Minister, it comes from that colleague Krasic knows nothing, nor is he informed, and thus we and the SRS. You, instead of warning him, let him talk. Mr Krasic said even more commendably about the state of finance in Serbia, perhaps his style is not responding to the minister as he said it – he's pouring over, there's too many, and I'm asking a logical question – what are we crediting for a billion dollars if we already have a surplus? The MP may know or not know, he may be informed and not have to, but with respect, the members of the government must be treated and addressed to the MPs. Whether MPs from individual parliamentary groups have been in the past, pre- or any call for it or not, it can't be an excuse or a reason for you to act out, and you've acquired manners in past synergy, but there has been no SRS in parliament, you have to get rid of it. You can't talk to MPs like that or the SRS will have to defend themselves. If the chairman can't protect us, we'll have to protect ourselves from members of the government. Mr Vujovicu, you must understand that you have come here to be exposed to criticism and praise, as who. The opposition can't praise you, honestly, but in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4572	I mean, two minutes and 21 seconds, at least about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I had to interrupt you. Two, twenty-one. So, I'm interrupting by not giving a speech. At least any violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 103 is not a matter of attitude. (Milorad Mircic, from Place: Stav 1.) All together. So, if all is together in the case of the 7th position of this member, the president is obliged to use the time the MP used by misusing the right of the 1st article's position to subtract from the total time that belongs to the group. First one, good one. Thank you. I'm using Article 103, so the attitude I've just read and I'm taking away your group for two minutes because of what you've just done. So, you do not allow any answers to the breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, and you are constantly calling upon the respect of the Rules of Procedure. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: You can also take five minutes. No, I can't take five minutes, twice. Yeah. Milorad Mircic, from the scene: You can do anything. I thank you for your instruction we have almost the same. (Milorad Mircic, from the place: You can, you are parliament. I give you a warning because of this disrespect for Parliament. Thank you. No, I'm not a parliament, you're not a parliament, you're an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4573	I don't know where you got these grades you're talking from, I was just talking about facts, incorrect interpretation of facts, which disagrees with facts. Therefore, I repeat, it is very important that we can disagree more with the views, but the facts must be used by similar or the same from the official sources that exist. I was talking about that there's data on the public debt management site that update every month at the end of the month is the data I said, that's the debt situation. It was reduced by 650m euros, from 24 billion and 800 to 24 billion 150m, compared to January 1st. It is the result of a better fiscal situation, i.e. A better deficit than planned. So we cut the need for additional borrowing to finance the deficit by more than a billion. Now let me explain that. Every country has a so-called land. gross and net debt requirement. Gross if we stop spending anything in the budget, it would still remain an obligation to finance that part of the commitment that comes to 2016. According to our estimates, without deficits 4.4 out of 24 billion 4.4 billion, it was able to be refinanced in 2016. So it's because they're contracts that have been made for years. To combine this with a concrete loan that was the purpose of the non-renewable loan, which is the comparison of the loan, someone mentioned two billion agreed with the United Arab Emirates where the first billion credit was withdrawn on 14 August 2014 and the second billion today are being discussed. For the sake of 21/09/11, Serbia withdrew two billion, comparing the amount of dollars at an interest rate of 7.25%. Five percent more expensive. Every year a hundred million dollars we paid more than the government has agreed with the President, the gentleman who discussed you before, every year we paid 100 million more to fund the total debt needs of this country. Whether they're justified or not, that's another question, they're inherited, and you can't not finance what's arrived. So two billion times 7.25% we pay in comparison to what we're discussing today, we pay 50 million every billion dollars each year. Therefore, these facts are very important. So all I'm talking about is the fact that no data about the debt level and the current deficit can be confused. Connecting those two things, when someone says we have a surplus and we have a reduction in the deficit, these are completely different things that are said in one sentence. So we were planning to have 120 billion dinars today, that's a billion euros, and we're in surplus 30 billion. So we're 150 billion better than the plan. That doesn't mean we have money to throw away, and that doesn't mean we don't have to refinance the commitments they make, that's what everybody does. That's what everybody does all over the world. Most countries, what is important, that Serbia has lowered its debt level compared to the planned 78%, 79% ma 70.8%. It's a success. We have a lot of other problems, but what we did with debt and that's the result of a better fiscal deficit, that's consistent, we're less in charge of that need. We're less in debt for one billion, so if we're less in debt and if our interest is 5% lower on borrowing, then just figure out how much it is. So first one billion less debt, so these two billion we pay 100 million a year less. Please, math, we all know how much it is. So we're saving on one billion if we were in debt differently, we'd pay 72 million on that billion and we're saving on these other two billion, that's 170 billion. Little is what our people say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4574	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4575	I just want to add two things. Ambassador Krasic said I signed this Agreement on the Western Balkans. I am not saying that I would now exempt myself from this because I signed this second loan agreement with Abu Dhabi, but this agreement was signed by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic on the basis of the government's decision. I don't know where Mr. Krasic read it, and he wanted to document it a little while ago, that there, foreign ministers signed it, so, well, there we have it, like it's another state. The other thing is, you told Mr. Alexic that, or you asked a question, what was signed in Brussels? What was signed in Brussels, everyone can see it and everyone can read it and I hope that since these negotiations and dialogue started, it was started at the time of the government of Mirka Cvetkovic, that all this was published and systematised and there are no secrets. I'm just impressed by your performance. It turns out that in your time, so we here every day had information about what the government is doing in Brussels, what Borko Stefanovic is negotiating. So now you're talking about Serbia's final budget bill. When did you give the final budget bill after 2000? One year it was. One year it was, one year it was. So I don't know what your criticism is about? What about the criticism that we signed in Brussels as a secret? What did we sign? Besides, you were in the G17 at the time, and that party also supported everything that we're about, I don't really know who I'm talking to anymore because DS is in different places... (Goran Bogdanovic, from place: Sam with himself.) ) First, Mr Bogdanovic would like to clear himself with which party he is, and then, since he was Minister for Kosovo, all of this was signed in his time. If you have any objections to this matter, Mr Bogdanovic, your representative has signed what you are now attacking us that we have recognised Kosovo. (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: I accept responsibility unlike you. That's right, so take that responsibility once. Besides, I don't have any trouble telling the truth all the things I think. Why? What do you think now is that Boris Tadic has convened co-ordination meetings between parliamentary groups and political parties to ask us what Borko Stefanovic will sign in Brussels. Well, neither did Mr. Bogdanovic, let alone the SPS parliamentary group. Well, Vuk Jeremic, as foreign minister, did not know that he would change his declaration in the UN General Assembly regarding the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion. He flew out of Belgrade with one proposal that we would seek a statement and a vote. When he got there, we had another proposal. Who did you ask? Perhaps you haven't asked the parliamentary groups that were then in the ruling coalition? Don't just behave, ask others to behave the way you didn't act. I've been with you, I've been with you from the beginning, and I'll still be. And where you're going to be, that's your political choice now. As far as I'm concerned, I've said otherwise that I won't allow anyone to doubt whether the Foreign Ministry will run an anti-state policy and policy that will go below our national and state interests. Well, you see, they accuse me of creating a rhetoric that is bad, that they accuse me of attacking others now. I defend Serbs. I'm the minister of Serbia's foreign affairs. I am not the foreign minister of another country, or the EU. It's my duty to act like one. I will also tell you that I do not understand what policy you are proposing when it comes to Kosovo. Why? Because, we went inclusive, so we agreed at the time, at the time of the start of the dialogue that Kosovo participates in international organisations, regionally, by definition, by the formula that was then introduced. Now, don't let it turn out that we are now the main culprits because we have now signed this agreement on the Western Balkans. It's an absolute replacement of thesis. When it comes to that, we were together. I would also like to mention, since we have spoken to this other law, I would like to help Mr Vujovic a little bit. I don't know what kind of borrowing you're talking about. Your government that I participated in, you didn't ask me about it at all. What, if you hadn't asked me if you were going to raise your loan, maybe? Well, you've all voted for everything, so you know what, and now you've voted for most of the laws that are in this House just to get into power. Two thousand eighths by 2012, with 8.8% of our total debt increased to 17.7 billion euros, from 28% to 56% of GDP, double, and you're talking about it now. How are you not ashamed to talk about it? (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: Not 14.6, and you are... ) The Eurobond you raised in 2011, which was spoken of by Mr Vujovic, 7.25% interest, $2 billion, so calculate the difference. And when it comes to the mission of the International Monetary Fund, before the 2012 elections, you drove them away with a broom, because elections were to be won. There were supposed to be elections, what IMF, what Fiscal Council, what the hell are you talking about? Therefore, I prefer to pollute with those who remained in the DS, rather than with you, because you yourself spat on your own party, President Tadic himself said "yellow thieves". (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. Well, you did say, I didn't say, what?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4576	Minister, let's get back to the agenda. (Branka Stamenković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Goran Ćirić, from the place: Replica. I'll give it to everyone without a problem, first Rules of Procedure. Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4577	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 107(2) In the National Assembly, it is not allowed to address one MP directly to another MP, and Article 116 also says that all rules applicable to the guests are also applicable to the MPs. Please, the chairman, ever since Minister Dacic spoke this morning, he speaks with a very military tone directly to the MPs, still waving his fingers and threatening. I ask you to warn him to behave with more dignity in this home which he has chosen to function in and whose job it is to control the executive authority and to ask questions about the work of the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4578	There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let me get this straight. They're always the same, the same members. If you're interested, I don't have to spend my time explaining something that nobody cares about hearing the answer. That's obvious. You want to vote on the injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4579	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4580	Please, yes. My answer doesn't even interest anyone. (Jordje Milicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here, I'll delete the lists, I can't give you a word before that. Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4581	Thank you, Your Honor. I am advocating the violation of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly, and I am reporting precisely because of what could have been heard during the recent presentation of the colleague. So I just think, you know, we can't have double arches here in the sense that when MPs ask questions, whether they come from the ranks of a position, but in this particular case of the opposition, they have the right to do so, and when ministers answer, they don't have the right to do so, or they have to keep quiet. I don't think the ministers should be silent, but they have one serious and responsible approach to the topic we are talking about today and this very responsible relationship requires such a serious approach and an answer to all the questions that can be heard by the MPs. So please apply Article 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to return to the agenda after this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4582	Thank you. I'm trying as hard as I can and as far as I can, I may not be able to do enough, but you'll have a later on when you're done talking about a chance to stick to article 108, so you can see what it looks like when the atmosphere's a little hot. But if you think I hurt the Rules of Procedure... No, I don't. Thank you very much. (Jordje Milicevic, from the post: I do not ask the Assembly to declare itself. ) Like this, Goran Bogdanović, replica, Alexic, replica and Ćirić replica, and Đurišić when I see in the system, if he is still there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4583	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, it's obvious that Mr. Dacic is a miracle. In 1999, you were a spokesman for the SPS, the 2013 Serbian prime minister. Both documents have been signed in your time. Both documents, unfortunately, are signed at the expense of the Serb community, above all on KIM. But I'm surprised at one other thing. I don't know what makes you want to come with us all the time, especially those of us who were together in the government in 2008 and 2012. You know very well, as regards the Brussels negotiations, Mr Sarovic, who at the time did not understand the same, as perhaps you do not understand today, things about Brussels, and you kept telling us that we did not report to the Serbian Assembly or the KIM Assembly Committee. I claim you to be quite responsible, and there is Mr. Sarovic to confirm that every week, after each meeting in Brussels, the Assembly Committee for KIM is sitting down and we also reported Mr. Borko Stefanovic and I. Therefore, it does not say that the Serbian Parliament was not informed of what was being negotiated. On the other hand, I think you should take care of what's going on in your party, not take care of both the SDS and the DS. And I think that, first of all, you should make sure that your MP club doesn't get a rash. Ours is stable here. There are few of us, but here we are, we're worth it, we're responsible, unlike maybe some others who aren't. So I ask you once again to keep in mind, so, as far as the joint operation has been going since 2008 and 2012, we've been working together, and don't run away from responsibility, neither you nor I nor anyone who acted at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4584	Thank you. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4585	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Vujovic, first of all, as far as we're talking about facts, I'm absolutely in favour, and all the data I've been providing is data or Public Debt Administration, or the Ministry of Finance. You said we're less in debt because we have a surplus in our budget for the first seven months. Yeah, that's true, but it's more of a game of words. On the other hand, when you create a budget surplus by taking money from citizens of Serbia, the question arises – are you running a real economic policy or not, and in developing countries when you have a surplus in the budget, it usually means that you have a deficit in the pockets of the population? As for Minister Dacic, firstly, Mr Dacic, you honor me for doing something in my day. I'd have to inform you now, even though you were Minister of the Interior. I was a member of one party and I'm not ashamed, and I never flew into another, unlike today's trend. I'm probably one of the few people who went his own way and I'm not a member of any party, I'm a member of my own party. As for what you did in the previous government, you know that. You, Mr. Dacic, have participated in all governments since 2008, and all policies have suited you. Then you fought Vukic, today you fight Tadic. You call on Tadic and the DS to be grateful, because they brought you back to life, and you returned after them by calling them. Now, normally, Wolf is your new partner, and we'll see who's next. So, therefore, this time of yours, I've always been a local politician. I have never been involved in central policy until this term, nor have I ever participated in any state decisions. As far as the Brussels Agreement is concerned, Mr. Dacic, there's something wrong with the contradiction of what's written and what's going on, and we read the Brussels Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4586	Don't answer it, I have to give the Minister my word. If you hang up on me, I can't give him my word. The word is Branka Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4587	Article 107(2), so that this is not against the minister. The chairman, a fellow MP, once again had a direct address to the minister. I ask you to insist consistently in the case of ministers and other MPs that there is no direct address in the Assembly. That rule doesn't suck. Direct address unnecessarily raises the level of confrontation, completely unnecessary. Let's talk civilised and talk about topics, not directly about personalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4588	Was this a lesson about what could cause a direct address or a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4589	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 107(2) We've had a direct address again, this time by the MP general.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4590	How can I forbid that?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4591	It's just that when they start talking directly, you stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4592	Can you hold consultations with your colleagues, all MPs, and say, "Never speak directly to anyone again."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4593	We don't speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4594	Just talk to the president, etc. You obviously don't know what parliamentary life looks like. When there's an exaggeration, it reacts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4595	We know, you don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4596	We can't tie our wipes to people's eyes and say, "Don't look in the direction, don't look in the direction." I ask the MPs not to speak directly to the minister and to the minister, asking him not to address the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4597	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4598	Can I finish? So focused that you're all talking to me, and I'm going to try to broadcast those messages further or someone who's in this position at that moment presides. That's what I can ask, but I can't jump after every word and sentence. I see what the session will look like.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4599	Yes, you can. It's your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4600	I know I feel a pulse. So, slowly, there's time for our sensitivity. It's too early for that. We vote of course for the injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4601	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4602	We'll vote for the injury when the time comes. Do the minister want the replica directly to Alexic, or do you want to listen to the replicas? Will you do that, Minister? Wait, you'll have two minutes each. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4603	Thank you, Your Honor. First Vice-President, fellow MPs, I don't understand the anxiety of the first Deputy Prime Minister, former Prime Minister, former First Vice-President, deputy president, everything Mr. Dacic has been on since 2008. Why did he come here with the view that only he was not responsible for the subject he is on today in the congregation? Why are both Mr. Tadic and Jadranka Joksimovic, who signed this, Borko Stefanovic, Aleksandar Vukic? Why are they all responsible, only he isn't? And all these years he was who he was and he didn't mind. So, we came here because for the first time in two and a half, three years we have an opportunity to talk about the government policy of the Republic of Serbia towards KIM, it hasn't been for the last three years, and to discuss what the consequences of the negotiations are, the Brussels Agreement. Only you appear in the media and distract the people with an alleged struggle for Serbian interests in Kosovo and Metohija. So let us talk about it here, don't defend yourself in a way that you have nothing to do with anything. You have very good connections, and if we are calling here to tell the truth, look at the Public Payments Authority's website, in July 2012, it was 15.8 billion euros. So, seven billion in four years where you were, and then in two years, you made five and a half billion as prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4604	Thank you. Time. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4605	Mr Bogdanovic says that I did not understand at the time of the DS government what they were negotiating in Brussels. But the truth is just the opposite. We in the SRS understood these negotiations best, as we understand it best now, and we are the only political party whose views have not changed. You, Mr. Dacic, say you have something against these flyers, so you don't like to talk to them, but I'll remind you that you're in the government, that you're the foreign minister with the flyer party, the most famous flyer party. As for your responsibilities, your personal responsibilities, of course, you can come and say that you are not responsible for anything. I liked your presentation, because I think those attacks of honesty are bringing a lot of things into this assembly. It's good to hear what's wrong with the government now, and it's good to hear that you haven't been informed of anything, but you've given everything legitimacy. You've exercised your conqualification because you voted in the Assembly, because you politically support it. The fact is that it was not good then, as it is today, but it is also a fact that Borko Stefanovic came after every round of negotiations and was uncomparably more polite than Mark Đuric. We had difficult discussions back then, but I do not remember that Borko Stefanovic once insulted MPs in the way Marko Đuric did, and I would remind you that at the previous session of the Committee on KIM Marko Đurić, without the chairman's warning, he personally told me that I was worse than Edith Hiri, that I would get a street in Pristina and many other abominations. No one responded to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4606	Time. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4607	Obviously, we have extremely important topics today and it seems that this atmosphere is also aimed at drawing us away from such important topics as are challenging enough for our country, from new borrowings, and through the signing of the Fund for the Western Balkans. But I really don't understand why, Mr. Foreign Minister, in the first minute you mention DS, as an alibi for what you're proposing, and it was very difficult for us in the benches to clarify whether you banned this proposal from forming a Fund for the Western Balkans or against it. We're talking here and we're wondering about consistency. I will say on behalf of the DS that the DS government in which you were also initiating negotiations with Pristina, and that is now the basis for forming regional and European policies and previous governments, but also of this current government where you are sitting today. I think it would be important for you to tell us clearly and honestly whether you are in favor or against what you are now representing in the congregation? I think it is also very important, for the sake of truth, to say something that you have tried to help Minister Vujovic show about public debt. It is true that you are looking for cuts in the public debt years of the Republic of Serbia from 2007, 2008 or 2004, but it is also true that, after the government where your party was until 2000, the public debt was, and you remember well, 15 billion euros and represented 167% of GDP and those poor DS governments were working later on, precisely on...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4608	Thank you. Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4609	... the reduction of that public debt, so we came to 2012 when that public debt was at 14.8 or about 15 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4610	First I'll give the Minister the word to answer, then to Alexander Martinovic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Then it is pointless to give me after the word.) () Ambassador, I can, but how can the Minister, how do you mean meaningful or pointless, let me give you an answer? I ask everyone who thinks they can hold a session, as it is today, to come here and lead, to give a word when they think they should get a word. I have to give the minister to respond to a total of five replicas, and then open a new circle of replicas of you with an MP, you'll tell me who you mean. Can you do that? (Jordje Milicevic, from the place: Replica. First the minister, then you'll be in front of the SPS. Take it easy. Everyone's gonna be talking about everything today, except the agenda. The word has a minister. You have ten minutes, so the MPs asked you to give them a united answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4611	You know what, I have no intention of causing any controversy. All that I was saying, I was saying because I don't think it's right that four years after signing this agreement on regional representation now, when the document comes to parliament, it's like it's now some revolutionary change and everyone wonders that this document has ever come to the agenda. I'm talking about the parties that ran the negotiations at the time, and whether or not I, I'm not transferring responsibility to anyone, I said, I'm the foreign minister, I'm in charge of everything that's going on in the outside. That's why I signed it. I couldn't be present to sign this, but on the other hand I signed this second loan document, because it all falls under the jurisdiction of foreign affairs. Who refuses responsibility for everything that was? You know what, I can't refuse responsibility, because I've been here since 1992. I'm responsible for everything, but it's not you who assess my responsibility, you, it's the people. After our joint government, we as a party today, as a parliamentary group, have more than all of your parliamentary groups that came from one party, and that's true, and that's reality. I've never insulted anyone. What you said today that Tadic brought us back to life, please don't use it anymore, because you forget that the SPS together with PUPS and Unique Serbia could determine whether Kostunica and Seselj or Tadic would be in power. Don't talk about you bringing us back to life. I was with the then president, Tadic. We were just Miodrag Rakic and I that night, no one was there and now you've brought us back to life. No, we've extended your life. We're correct partners, and I have no intention of moving on about it. I'm talking about the essence of this topic. The topic is today current because it is trying to say through this topic that the Serbian government recognises practically Kosovo as a state by signing the Fund Agreement for the Western Balkans. My answer was clear – the agreement was signed on the basis of an agreement reached during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and then President Tadic's agreement with various international factors on dialogue in Brussels. On this basis, nothing further has gone than that, but the reality is that now and this agreement on stars and footnotes, there is almost no such thing as a problem, because Kosovo is no longer accepted, nor is it called, nor is it registered with a star and footnote. And we, unfortunately, have the reality that they vote it without any agreement from Serbia. So, I think that problems are much more serious than this agreement represents, than stars and footnotes, and Serbia is thought to agree to various ultimatums, because some chapters will not be opened. We have shown that we do not agree to such a principle, and I guess it is clear to you that we will lead a consistent policy when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. I think that should be supported, of course, by all political states. When it comes to this, I really don't know who to address right now, who not, in the sense of the Rules of Procedure... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4612	You're talking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4613	Okay, President, I apologize if I offended anyone or threatened anyone, I just talk like that, and I fight like that. That's what I've been saying in this room since 1992. The point of political struggle is controversy. The question is whether it is good at all, is it possible to conduct a philosophical debate like this without speaking to anyone, to keep the tone decent, and to accept it absolutely without offense, but political, controversy is the basis of politics. Anyway, don't expect me to keep my mouth shut here any criticism that I don't think has been established. I don't want to react to everyone. I'll be here as long as I can, but we have other activities today. I came only because of this Fund for the Western Balkans, because I saw that on committees and other public appearances, this topic is politicizing and comes to a conclusion as if it were now some big detour from our state policy line. I want to assure you that it is not, that there is no change in our state policy, nor will we do it in the next period. I'd just like to draw your attention that unfortunately, we're in a situation where some things go by and they can pass without us. Whether we participate in an assembly or not does not mean that this decision will not be made. We've been against it, and we'll be against it, but we need to keep in mind the rules of decision. In the UN General Assembly, those who have recognised Kosovo have a majority. The main obstacle to Kosovo becoming a member of the UN is the vote in the Security Council, i.e., such a decision, if one vetoes, can never come to the General Assembly. In that sense, it is now all complexly related to Chapter 31, to our relations. We can't do anything on one side now that would lead to giving up a friend without making any new ones. And that's exactly what we'd do if we were, for example. Joined the sanctions of the Russian Federation. And they would, they'd hurt themselves in the heart. So it's important that we talk about these topics not only politically, but also really get into the essence and know where this can go with or without us. We can say – we will never admit it, and we say it, but the situation real on the ground is much more dangerous and, just as Pristina says – we will nationalize Trepchu, there is only one thing. They should reach the Serbian part of Trepce. But if we make such a situation to come up with conflicts, then it's bad for the whole region, and I think this topic, regardless of what it looks like to someone now, is the most important topic for the Western Balkans, but it's a fund that will have 30,000 on the contractual side, that's 180th, I think the Visegrad Fund will, yes, 80,000. That's the capital he'll have at the beginning. It's small projects, but there are other things that have been arranged. You cannot participate in summits on the Western Balkans with the EU, which began to run Germany without the agreements reached being ratified in parliament. We now have a situation that will expire a year after the signing of this agreement and already the EU and other countries in the environment are wondering whether Serbia will ratify it or not. That's why it's on the agenda, so we don't turn out to be the first, we're the fourth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4614	Thank you, Minister. Time's up. Thank you. Let me just say, there's a little misunderstanding about the heads of Parliament. Please, when you empower someone by point, he draws your powers. They can't even tell the bosses to replicate those who are authorized and that they're both in the O.R. And that's true and there's a misunderstanding with two already elected groups. I have a misunderstanding with my eyes, so I'm gonna stop it. It can't be done by the Rules of Procedure, it can only be authorized by the Rules of Procedure and he's the boss at that point. What do we do? Or get them out of the O.R. No acting, no pulling, like I'm here, I'm not. Either he's in the O.R. or he's not in the O.R. Alexandra Tomic, as authorized or what? Replica to Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4615	The replica to Mr. Sarovic, who led Mr. Dacic to sit in the government with the biggest flyers on the political scene. Whoever compared SNS with Hitler and Mussolini's party on the KIM Committee, who said Mr Mark Djuric's statements are a big lie. We are talking about an MP who wanted to offend the party that has shown itself, on this political scene, as the most responsible, especially when it comes to resolving international agreements and in general international policy. Because at a time when other parties ruled, when the country was on its knees, as well as economic and political relations and major forces and countries in the region, there was no political party at the time that could boast of this international status that Serbia today has. That is why we are obliged to say, because of the citizens of Serbia, that this is the view of each committee, we will always speak the truth in every tide for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. What the SNS has done, what the government of Mr. Vukic is doing, and at any moment we will share that information with the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4616	Thank you. I met what was said on the Committee, and I believe that the president of the Committee was wrong and that he should have made warnings and exclusion measures. The Rules of Procedure shall also apply to the work of committees. In all things, we need to have a limit, even in the insults that we bring to the expense of political inexperiences, in all directions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4617	I've been very patient with the president. Mr. Bogdanović spoke very directly to the MPs' club...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4618	Sign up again because you've lost 14 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4619	Here, very briefly. The first question here is, what's going on at the SPS Parliament Club and what's going on in our party? Mr. Bogdanovic, we're very well what I want for you. Unlike you, we know which political party we are sitting on and that will always be the SPS. As far as the other thesis is concerned, it was 1999 years before 2000, we believe that this is finally an opportunity to protect and defend national and state interests in a different way. So, not to celebrate failures, but to defend national and state interests in the best possible way. We have one question for you, Mr Dacic, I'm going to have to address you directly -- how many institutions were in the space of Kosovo and Metohija in 2000? From year to year, you know, sovereignty, national state interests, sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija defended itself with political paroles. There was nothing going on in the field. Unbiased independence, absolutely no one asked us anything. And what was the political activity of the government and the then president of the state? There's talk of 1999. You know, those words -- betrayal, surrender, and then they heard, so the two documents that were then created and defined, the Dayton Agreement and Resolution 1244 of the Security Council of the United Nations, were the basis of the national and state policy that was being conducted since 2000. Anyone who was part of the ruling coalition, who was in power, had his share of responsibility, had the opportunity, we fully agree, to resolve the Kosovo and Metohija issue. That, as far as anyone was responsible, is true, Mr. Dacic, in the end, the most measured court of citizens. We do not expect, Mr. Bogdanovic, to say that the government is brave, but what is very important to us is that this courage will be recognized, we are convinced, in the future of generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4620	So we've been going around these subjects for an hour and a half, and I think it's time to get back to the agenda. (Goran Bogdanovic, from town: Replica. I run the session and you can't influence me, believe me. (Goran Bogdanovic, from the city: Directly mentioned me. I was maximum tolerance. Don't even bother. We've replicated an hour and a half, and now we have to go to the agenda. I've decided to go to the agenda. So it's my call. According to the Rules of Procedure... Marco Djurisic throws. Well, don't yell. (Marco Djurisic, from the post: Which member? You know a great Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I know. I'm asking you because you know. That's right. Don't ask me. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I ask you because you know. Explain. ) Marko Djurisic is being warned because of a lack of respect for parliament and adjudication. The word is Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4621	I thank the president. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to talk today about two laws, a law confirming a loan agreement with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund on budgetary support and a law confirming the financial agreement "Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises" between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia. After that, in the second part of the debate, my colleague Jovanovic will talk about a law that is very important for the citizens of the Kings, the city from which he comes. First, a few words about this loan we made with Emirat Abu Dhabi, which I see has caused some confusion or controversy, as you will, in public. At first I think we should say it's something that's not absolutely new. So said the minister, this contract was signed two years ago. The 2016 budget provides for borrowing on the basis of this contract. Therefore, it is something that is absolutely familiar with information, because certain texts have appeared in public that are spoken of as being something that is completely new and completely unknown. After this law came into the legal procedure in the Assembly, they appeared, so I say, to the traditional media of certain news, and I would say even more discussions in social, i.e. in the new media, which is all about one topic, to paraphrasise – what about us, when we have a surplus in the budget, and this concerns what the prime minister has said several times, which is that after two quarters we have a surplus, and here, today the finance minister also confirmed that we still have a surplus in the budget. So, without wanting to offend anyone, this question sounds like a substitute for thesis and a lack of knowledge of the reasons for borrowing. As a first argument to what I said, I would like to read to you what is written in this law – Loan Goals - the objective of the loan is to support the economic development of the Republic of Serbia by reducing the cost of financing, improving the economic situation in the country and contributing to the achievement of planned development. So this is not about any loan taking at a time when we don't need it for nothing, it's about taking the loan that we need and how we can use for different things, for example, to refinance certain unfavourable loans or finance certain commitments from the past, what the minister was talking about, which were taken on far more unfavourable terms. Also, if we have enough resources, we can also use this loan to increase capital investment and capital investment, or capital investment level, it seems to me that one of the few things, if not the only one, is the burden of fiscal advice to our budget in the last two years, in the sense that there are insufficient capital investments, i.e. to make larger capital investments more powerful development of our economy. So we have more opportunities in which we can use this loan. Another thing that's not completely clear, which is that we're calling for a surplus right now. Just because we have him at this point doesn't mean we're going to have him by the end of the year, and in his latest report, the Fiscal Council made it very clear that by the end of the year we're going to have a deficit. The finance minister also confirmed this today. We have a good result and we'll have a good result. We'll have a much better result than we predicted with the 2016 RS budget and otherwise in the economy when you do some projection and when it's not good, whether you've designed a smaller or bigger sum, you've always made a mistake. I think the budget is one of the few things that when you design in a way that your deficit is smaller than you're supposed to be, that's good, because that's a sign that you're designing conservatively. That's what we've been wrong for many years when we've projected constant by making the most optimistic possible forecasts, and then after that we've had to do budget rebalancing and even a few times. It's something that hasn't happened to us in the last few years and that's something to be commended for. So, thanks to our good result, we can repay a 105m-euro Petrochemy debt and that's something the prime minister announced a few days ago at a press conference. We can open up room for a new salary and pension increase. At the end of the year, no matter what we have right now, we're going to have a deficit. That deficit has to be financed from something. Why don't you finance yourself from the funds that come under very favourable conditions? I would like to remind the MPs, especially those who were not MPs in the previous session, that last year we increased the deficit at the end of the year by returning the accumulated debts of "Serbigas" to the NIS and by returning the debts to military pensioners who were transferred year after year. We did what most politicians would probably do, which is that we have as little deficit as possible, because the smaller deficit means the better the political message. No, we've increased the deficit, but by doing so, we've extended our obligations from the past that we've carried over from year to year over and over again, not to mention that there have been many years where we've had these obligations, to say, to hide them, to put them below the line, and again, to express myself jargonically, to damage our deficit, or artificially reduce them. The third thing that I think is very important, which should be said to be fully understood why this thesis that we don't need to borrow now because we have a surplus that doesn't stand, is that budget implementation is one fluid category, as the minister said. So, just because we have a surplus at some point doesn't mean that at some other point we don't have any obligations that we had, that we've taken over and that we have to service at the moment that they arrived. Then we must be in charge to be able to resolve this temporary indifference. Just when you look at the way this loan was conceived, and it's conjectured so it's taken into five tranches per 200 million dollars, that these tranches are every six months, you see that absolutely everything I've counted comes into consideration. It is very likely that it will be as the minister said, which is that we will use it to finance some of the loans that we have previously taken, i.e. the commitments that come from these loans, but if we have extra funds, we can place those funds in different ways and thus solve the problems of the past, whether we are investing in certain investment projects, what capital investments are, and thus contribute to what it says about the objectives of the loan, which is about the growth and development of Serbia's economy. When we look at developments in the international financial market today and when we look at something very important, which is Serbia's credit rating, then we can conclude that this loan is truly favourable. It has an interest rate of 2.25%, to repeat, the maturity period is ten years, and the start period is five years. So in five years we start returning this loan. In order to make it clear how favourable this loan is, I will only tell you the latest data on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia on the secondary market to finance liabilities based on previously issued securities of value. So we sold government bonds on the secondary market at a rate of 4.2%. That'll say 2% more than this loan. That's the data from ten, fifteen days ago. So I don't think there's really any reason to politicise this loan. I think this loan is really good and, of course, the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support this bill, as well as the other draft laws we are talking about. Furthermore, I would like to say a few words about small and medium-sized enterprises and the apropo enterprise of this loan, the Apex loan we received from the European Investment Bank. You will forgive me for making an introduction in which I will talk about this sector, because I think it is very important that we understand the importance of this sector for Serbia's future economic development. Everywhere in the world, the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship is the engine of economic development and the main source of innovation in one country. So, of course, in Serbia, so you should not be surprised at the fact that these are the most powerful data, that 99.8% of the companies among active companies fall into the small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs sector, that these companies generate two-thirds of the employment, that these companies generate two-thirds of the turnover and that these companies, i.e. this sector participate with one-third of the creation of gross domestic product. The Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship sector has special importance in transition countries, because it plays another role besides what it plays, which I mentioned in developed countries, which is the absorption of unemployment in the transition process, i.e. in the process of restructuring the economy. Indeed, when you look at the data from 2008, between 2004 and 2007, the small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship sector created 149,000 jobs, and thus almost fully compensated for lost jobs in the transition process. Unfortunately, the global economic crisis has shifted these trends since then, and by 2014, this sector has recorded negative results by all parameters measuring their efficiency. In 2014, we had results that promise, which give hope for optimism. In this year, we had an increase in traffic, an increase in gross added value, an increase in productivity in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, unfortunately, continuing to decrease the number of employees. It's something that follows this whole period, but with this trend slowing down the number of employees. The main problem remains in this sector, which is less opportunities for borrowing, i.e. for favourable borrowing, whether it is about starting, whether it is about expanding business when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. entrepreneurs. Therefore, loans are mostly unfavourable because interest rates are too high, mainly because they are high requirements for collateral and very often because there is a lack of long-term credit, and they are most important for some of the strategic development of these companies, i.e. this sector. If we look at the report on global competition for 2015/16, which was working at the World Economic Forum, we will see that they recognized the exact same problem, which is access to sources of funding. Indeed, the placement of our country, i.e. the small and medium-sized enterprises, however you wish, is devastating on this list. The availability of financial services in 97 in 140 countries, the accessibility of financial services 111 of 140 countries, the ease of access to loans from 120 of 140 countries. In response to the economic crisis and in response to these problems I am talking about, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted in March 2015 a strategy for the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and entrepreneurship with the accompanying action plan for its implementation and with very ambitious plans that say a significant increase in the number of businesses in this sector is expected by 2020, a significant increase in the number of employees, an increase in traffic, an increase in GDP, an increase in various other qualitative, even more important factors when talking about the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Also, this strategy foresees that in this report, the aforementioned World Economic Forum, by 2012, we will be very high and we will be in relation to where we are now and be in the first 60 countries. If we look at the information that we saw yesterday, which gives us optimism, which is that on the "Ding Business" list we've made progress again, or that we're now in 47th place, and I'm going to remind you that just two years ago we were 91, I think we have reason to be optimistic and when it comes to the progress of funding availability, which is very important for the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. As the most important mechanism, I am now going back to what, let me put it this particular topic, in the Small and Medium Business Sector Development Strategy and Entrepreneurship is mentioned exactly the Apeks loan of the European Investment Bank. So, the Strategy recognized that this is something that is most important for the Republic of Serbia at the moment, i.e. for the development of its sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is about 150m euros in debt under favourable conditions for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector that should contribute to their growth and development, i.e. returning to the growth and development path they had until 2008, 2009 and to the convergence of all the most important parameters towards those who characterise the EU countries. This Apeks loan brings up another newspaper, which is already mentioned by one of my colleagues or colleagues, which is the initiative Jobs for young Western Balkans, and I think it is particularly important and worth mentioning, because it is a special relief for the employment and self-employment of young people in the Republic of Serbia, where these loans will be provided even more favourable conditions, i.e. an even lower interest rate. Indeed, entrepreneurship is something that I think must be one of the most important strategic goals of the Republic of Serbia. We declared 2016 a year of entrepreneurship. The prime minister spoke about it several times and said that there will be entrepreneurship years next year, and I think that's a key point. Every year must be a year of entrepreneurship. It seems to me that this is the only way that Serbia has the chance to develop dynamically in the future and I think that investment in this sector and investment in the development of entrepreneurial culture is something that we unfortunately have not developed in society, or in the development of an entrepreneurial spirit in individuals, is the key to Serbia's future economic development. How can we develop an entrepreneurial culture in Serbia, or an entrepreneurial spirit? Otherwise, not all EU countries, or all countries in Europe, are overly characterized, some that, but most not, the entrepreneurial spirit, is something that is mainly about the United States and that is something, I think, that must be done from small feet with new generations coming, because it is something that is investing in the next 50 years in Serbia. We need to introduce entrepreneurship into Serbia's overall education system, literally all levels of the education system, and I am pleased to hear the Minister of Education say that he once spoke about the idea that entrepreneurship should be introduced into Serbia's education system. What I would like to say or appeal to the minister is that we are very careful in thinking about how to introduce entrepreneurship into Serbia's education system. We can't introduce entrepreneurship as an object. Lately, we've had a very frequent discussion about this information problem, which this year is not a subject, or is not a regular subject in the course, very often there's a problem that children in information science are learning theory, which is something that is completely unchangeable. Nor can entrepreneurship be a subject, it cannot be answered on the subject of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship must be introduced by keeping in mind what age we are talking about and adapting what it is about that age, and we are bringing entrepreneurship closer to young people through different mechanisms, whether these are various examples of practice, whether they are some workshops, whether it is aid for the establishment of student companies or a variety of other ideas. So entrepreneurship should permeate Serbia's education system, not introduce it one day as an object, and we think that this will solve the problem permanently. No, that way we certainly won't solve it. And in the end, to succeed after this, the first step we took, which is that we provided favourable funds for the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. In order to achieve a long-term plan, we also have to work with the media to explain how important this topic is and how important it is that, especially with new organisations, we have to explain that entrepreneurship is something that is not a bauk and that entrepreneurship is something that needs to be done and has to be Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4622	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4623	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today a united debate on six points of the agenda that are incompatible in principle. A set of laws, i.e. an international agreement on additional borrowing of Serbia, and a point concerning the classification of an international agreement on the formation of a Western Balkan Fund is a matter of state integrity and has nothing to do with finance or has only indirect ties to finance. We don't understand why this is connected like this and if you want to go through this debate to cover things up, but okay. As far as financial laws are concerned, I will talk briefly about two international contracts, loans for fixing, or modernising public administration optimisation of 69m euros and a budget support loan of 3.6 billion dirham. The first international agreement, i.e. the loan agreement, concerns the modernisation of public administration between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where, as the minister explained low access interest, it continues to modernise public administration and that it is something that is continuity. We have a few concerns and questions about this loan, and in order to even talk about whether there's a need for this kind of thing, we should have a quality analysis and quantitative analysis of how much money we've spent so far on loans to modernise public administration. Over the past 15 years, this parliament has ratified several international agreements on loans for the modernisation of public administration, which must be measured hundreds of millions of euros. We haven't heard, but we should hear the effects of these international contracts, loans for the modernisation of public administration. There have been various projects, education, reduction of employees, increase, electronic administration etc., etc. today we have always excuses that our public administration is inefficient, that we are too expensive, that it is expensive for the state itself, we are constantly taking some new loans, and we have still inefficient public administrations. Is this loan meaningful, is it necessary, and what effects have we had so far? How much does it cost us and what have we done with it? So, in order for us to have a clear picture of whether we should support this loan agreement, we need to know what we've done so far, what we're going to do with these additional 69m euros to achieve. What are the effects? Will it be better when we spend that money? Will we have a more efficient and cheaper public administration to make it useful for the citizens? We don't have any answer to that, so it would be very appropriate for the minister to tell us a word about it. The second agreement he will talk about is a loan, i.e. a loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and Abu Dhabi's budget support fund. Minister Vujovic said the amount of the loan is billions of dollars, and the material we received says that the lender of Abu Dhabi's Development Fund gives the Republic of Serbia three billion 673 million dirhams, the national currency of the United Arab Emirates. I guess it's equivalent to a billion dollars, but it just says here that we borrow in Arab dirhams. This is the first misunderstanding, or false fact. The second thing, which is also very controversial here, is the agreement on financial support, i.e. the loan was signed by Foreign Minister Mr Dacic. According to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government, the Law on Government is clearly defined by the work of certain ministers and as far as I know the loan agreements are in direct jurisdiction of the finance minister, not the foreign minister. But it is more a formal fact than a fundamental fact, but it also requires one explanation why you are not a signer on behalf of the Serbian state, but a foreign minister. The third important thing that needs to be clarified is, you were saying that the interest that will be on this loan of 2.25% is very favourable and that it is currently the most favourable on the market, we have no reason not to believe, but I have an additional question. Since we borrow in the dirhams and that the repayment period of this debt is 10 years, i.e. after five years of payment and five years of repayment, it means by 2026 whether we as a state and you as a finance minister have a valid assessment of the movement of the dirham currency for the next 10 years. Will this 2.25%, which at the moment is a favourable interest at the end of that 10-year period, be favourable to us? Whether that dirham stays in relation to the dollar at the same level or maybe it'll grow, or maybe it'll fall, I don't know, maybe fall. Since it's about the Emirates, a country that's in expansion, which has a huge oil reserve, it's logical to think in the direction that I'm going to touch it stronger and logically think in the direction that after a 10-year period, we're going to have a much bigger interest on the basis of, or a much bigger amount to return to dollars, if we let the situation go, that's going to boost, than this 2.25% interest that is now favourable. Well, it might happen, I say maybe, hypothetically it'll happen in ten years what we're going to reprogram now with 7% interest, you said dollar loans 7% interest, that when you're ten years old, it might be 15%, so then we jumped ourselves, or did a bear service. So that's all the assumptions, but it's important that we know if there's a valid estimate of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, that there's going to be a dirham in the next 10 years, because there's a lender here directly, exclusively fenced that he's going to be back in the dirhams, not in dollars. So these are important facts we need to know. Let's talk a little bit about why we're taking loans, when we're doing so well, and when our budget situation is great? We have a report that the Ministry of Finance and the Government, or the Ministry of Finance, handed over to the Government, and the government adopted and sent to every MP. We received this, a report on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia from 1 January to 30 June 2016, which says that revenues and receipts were made for the first six months, a total of 498 billion dinars or almost 50% of the planned, and that total budget execution, in terms of expenditure and expenditure for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2016, is 501 billion. It's an official report that we received from the Ministry of Finance, or the Government. When you recalculate 501.9 minus 498, it turns out that the state of Serbia was in a deficit for the first six months, some small one according to the planned four billion dinars. All the newspaper inscriptions, the press conferences of our prime minister were that the state of Serbia in the first six months was 22 billion, so for the first eight months 30 billion, here for the first nine months we received, an official report that matches what was said in public, that the surplus is 28 billion dinars. First of all, I'm interested in how they can be contradictory information, which is not a coincidence that the official report is that we're down to four billion, and the press conferences are talking about a 22 billion surplus? So someone's lying here. Now whoever's lying, that's what you're gonna tell us. Also, it's not logical that they're taking loans when we're in a surplus, I guess that surplus is used either to stimulate the economy, or to repay the existing debts we have, but if that's an explanation that it's for reprogramming some debts, we can understand that. And what is most controversial in this united debate is the ratification of an international agreement on the establishment of a fund for the Western Balkans. Mr Dacic, in the opening exposé, said that we should take care of terminology and that here the signatories of this agreement are not states, but are contracting parties, and the parties are the Government of the Republic of Albania, BiH, Kosovo with a star, Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia, in the further text of the Contracting Party. Contracting parties here only define themselves as abbreviations, otherwise, of course, the Government of the Republic I mentioned, or the States of the signatories of this agreement, and of course this is an international agreement. That it is true, it also states in the explanation that the constitutional basis for the adoption of a law confirming the Agreement establishing the Western Balkans Fund is contained in the provision of Article 99, which stipulates that the National Assembly is confirming international contracts. So this is an international contract between the countries that I have listed, and among other things, Kosovo is treated here as a state. Your argument that we have made a statement saying that this Kosovo with a star does not prejudge the position that it is a state, and otherwise we accept signing this agreement with the states and Kosovo is completely ridiculous. So, the international contract applies only to countries. The signing of an agreement with the governments of the countries mentioned, where foreign ministers are signatories, in this case has been signed by Mrs Joksimovic, but there is no doubt that you would have signed that position too is the direct involvement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia in installing the independence of our southern province. Also, an explanation that you say is based on an agreement signed in 2012, signed by Borko Stefanovic, and ratified by the government in which you were the first deputy, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister, and that you do not have that responsibility is also more than ridiculous. You participated directly in this government, gave it legitimacy and voted in the government that this regional, regional representation agreement was ratified, as you signed the Brussels Agreement directly in 2013 in which you abolished the institutions of the Serbian state in Kosovo, abolished the authorities of the Serbian state in Kosovo, forced our representatives to go to illegal Shiparian elections under the Cypriot laws, not the laws of the Serbian state. After all, I have not heard of a country's foreign minister who is sovereign and who believes Kosovo is part of its territory, which means that the foreign minister and Kosovo and Metohija sign with the foreign minister, so-called. "Kosovo" agreement on the establishment of a fund. Is there greater evidence or greater humiliation for the state of Serbia than the signing and formation of such a fund that directly confirms that we agree to sign agreements with our province at international level, accepting its independence. It is the crawling project of recognising Kosovo's independence and this treason policy has started since 2008. Step by step, by signing one by one international agreement and agreement, with Kosovo's admission to the Olympic Committee, where the state of Serbia did not react in any way, with the shameful welcome of Kosovo to the International volleyball Federation two weeks ago, without the state of Serbia reacting in any way, where Spain was against, and Serbia's representative was abstentioned. It is the best possible proof that this government, as well as this previous, is a direct accomplice to the creation of an independent Kosovo. What we have here today must be withdrawn from the procedure because it is contrary to the Constitution, because the state of Serbia and its highest representative body of the Assembly have no right to ratify such agreements as are treated as part of its territory as a special state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4624	The word is "Zonimir Stević". It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4625	President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, Finance Minister, I'm advertising a violation of Article 106. No one can speak at the assembly session before asking and receiving a word from the president, or the essence of this member's advertising is to talk about the subject of the agenda. Because of the confusion of the public and the disinformation that some agreements, the Brussels Agreement, that the institutions of KIM, as a man who comes from KIM, are being extinguished, are being told here lies and certain confusions among the people in the KIM area are being created. The former colleague forgot, he honors us that we participated in some illegal elections, that we forced the people. I want to remind him that after half of 2000, his party, who was in the KIM authorities' institutions ahead of the "Return" coalition? Whose representatives were they? Furthermore, in KIM and today, in addition to all signed agreements, health support in the Serbian state health system is supported, education in Serbia's education system is supported. It works in KIM space. We have 29 local self-government. The judiciary is supported, etc., by other institutions. I don't think it's right and that it's incorrect, after 16, 17 years went to the polls and the people showed their will and their commitment and their energy and defined over 80%...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4626	Thank you. Two minutes, thank you. I can't have the role you expect me to play, to correct the information of a speaking MP. Whether he spoke correctly or not, you are as MPs to replicate and explain. I really can't hurt the Rules of Procedure that way. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4627	Dear Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members, I would like to, of course, as I speak from two parts, since this subject has been forced into the same part of the agenda, i.e. in the same joint search. First of all, let me say something about loans, because everything about loans, when it comes to this government, is an irresistible reminder of the previous government and the regime of Boris Tadic, which took those first steps in borrowing the state, the enormous borrowing of the state. But it can't be said that you haven't taken even bigger steps and that you have reached Boris Tadic at a percentage of the state's duties and responsibilities. Indeed, in many areas of our lives you can say that you have continued through DS and Boris Tadic, and that you have overcome many things. The administrations in our two topics today, which concern the borrowing of the state and concerning participation in the recognition of an independent Kosovo, are making a significant contribution to saying that you have surpassed Boris Tadic. It's especially characteristic when it comes to these new duties. I would not now enter into details, such as that, as Minister Vujovic said, that the examples are working to take credit to improve government decisions. That's one of the most brilliant definitions I've ever heard. You can't do this without a loan to improve the government's decisions. Or, say, you're in charge of setting up our state administration, so you still can't handle the state administration without borrowing. Those two things are totally pointless. Of course, you're probably taking foreign consultants who then pay back those money to those of whom you took loans, etc. It's an old method. You take credit, and that loan is spent either by a foreign consultant or by a foreign firm that you give a job to. So, if we're in charge of strangers, the foreigners take their own money and spin it and return it to their register. So we know that method. I wanted to say something about this most legendary and interesting loan regarding your close friends from the UAE. I really don't think you, Mr. Vujovic, and you, Mr. Dacic, have any idea. I mean, that's what Mr. Wolf said. I apologize, to be precise, to appeal to the opinion of the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, who said his ministers had no idea. Is that true? That's right. I agree. In fact, now is the problem, or they really have no idea, as Vukic says, and I guess he should believe it, or they've discovered something that shouldn't have been discovered, that this loan is for budget support, for saving the budget, for keeping the liquidity, for saving the deficit, because a mantra has been made that lasts months, that the budget is in surplus, that the budget is stable, that everything is fine with public finances. Now suddenly it comes out, now, I don't know which one of you is guilty and who the prime minister thought had no idea, suddenly someone comes out and discovers the secret that it's not exactly the same budget in surplus, but that there is still some deficit and that a new loan has to be taken and that new budget support from borrowing and that new borrowing must be made, etc. I understand why Vukic reacted so much because the story of surpluses and stable public finances was exposed. That's why he said you have no idea. But if that's not true, then it's true the ministers have no idea. The wolf said. Wait, I guess when Wolf says something, you gotta listen. So he collects the interest by 0.25% in this new loan that you're taking. You yourself admitted that unfavourable dollar loans have been made in the last five or six years. I'm glad you admit that you've been involved in this enormous and per se very harmful government borrowing. The only good thing you've admitted is that there are more favourable credits than Western loans, since there were only Western loans for you from 5 October to today. Here, it turns out there are some other loans and some other sides of the world. Thank God this country has started turning to other sides of the world, not to look just west as the only meaning of life. What's problematic here, say, Mr. Minister, is that you need an arbitration party in case of a dispute. It's the Arab League. I don't see the logic of that either. I don't know what else we have to give to the UAE next to "Beograd on the Water" to get these favourable loans? Also, I don't know what you're going to use this loan for. If you used it in the development of domestic economy, the development of domestic agriculture, in the development of agricultural industrial combinations, in the restoration of our agricultural machinery industry, in support of our cooperatives, in small and medium-sized enterprises, I would absolutely raise my hand for such a loan, for such a loan, which will finally be pumped into our banking and be pumped into our domestic companies. More budget-holding loans, for a better picture of the government in public, for something that we owe to someone for something, for the pressure of this or that, because I don't know what kind of blackmail they just don't make sense anymore. We saw that from October 5, 2000 to today, and that led us to this point of overindebtedness. We heard from NBS Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, a control body for spending the previous UAE loan will be formed in March 2014. Has he ever been formed, Mr. Vujovic, that control body and what has he determined? How did we spend that money? What did they go to? Of course he's never been formed. When you ask Jorgenka Tabakovic today - what about the control body, she says - I have no idea, ask the Ministry of Finance. So, falsifying, I mean, which is usually one of the characteristics of SNS in politics. So, we have a problem with all these duties, because we're in debt in foreign currencies, because we're risking a course of various movements that, by the way, that famous financial genius Lazar Krstic cost us 800m euros for not knowing the currency differences and other problems we've had, minus the budget, so that it doesn't just happen again with these dollars, Mr. Minister. You know exactly what I'm talking about and what the world market is and what our public debt is in dollars. And, of course, when you give this to banks and tell them that banks get favourable loans for small and medium-sized enterprises, you forget that banks will take their extra fees. So what's the role of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises? Find another way. I've already advised you on a primary show, strictly controlled printing of state money that you pump into domestic banking and domestic economy. You've never answered me why I'm wrong that this is more favourable than your loans. Here, you're a great economist, you've been around the world. Answer me why the primary show is strictly controlled by state money, which is invested in not filling the budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4628	Be nice, a little bit about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4629	Let's get back to the agenda, because obviously the primary taboo show is a topic for the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4630	Well, you know when it was, when we were kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4631	I just want to say next. It is not right for all the burdens of these loans here, without talking about this recognition of Kosovo and the creation of great Albania are carried by Dusan Vujovic and Ivica Dacic. This is where Alexander Vukitch should be with us and the SNS should take responsibility for everything that's been done. Don't, please, it's Ivica Dacic's fault now, or it's Boris Tadic's fault. The Serbian Progressive Party when it mentions the name Boris Tadic, all of you, stand up and bow down to him. He formed a party, gave you money, gave you MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4632	MP, now you're demeaning two groups, and two parties, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4633	I'll go back to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4634	It would be your turn to return, if you can, but it seems you can't, because you love everything and everything but what Parliament is discussing. And Boris, and the president of the SNS, and the tandar of Mandar, let's get on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4635	I simply felt it was not correct if Tadic helped so much to create SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4636	There, you're going to forget. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: What have I done now? ) You know what, there are stands and then people say what they want. There is a parliament and then people can explain the political topic widely, but they must be within the agenda. We have concrete agreements. (Bosko Obradović, from town: I understand. I'll take it. I know, but I give you back your word and you do it again. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I will fix myself. ) You can’t fix yourself, but just get involved.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4637	Thank you, Chairman. What I will use in this second part of the speech, as I now have to move on to a completely different topic, is this confirmation of the Agreement on the formation of the Western Balkans Fund. I think the separatist regime in Pristina can celebrate today when the Serbian Parliament practically discusses recognising an independent Kosovo. The formation of a Western Balkan Fund in which between five sovereign and recognised UN states you have a sixth that does not exist, which is a fake, which is a separatist and terrorist creation, and you form a contractual relationship with it, is nothing more than the recognition of an independent Kosovo. I understand the policy of this and the previous government. You are no longer on that famous exchange -- we do not recognise Kosovo as an independent state. Your new currency is – we do not recognise that we recognise independent Kosovo. So I simply don't expect you to admit that you have recognised an independent Kosovo, but I am obliged to say that such steps are directly involved in creating and supporting the creation of so-called. An independent Kosovo. So, if you're making interstate contracts, let's see what your argument says, gentlemen, the argument is that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the approval of the Western Balkans Fund with the Statute of the Western Balkans Fund is contained in the provision of Article 99(4) of the Treaty establishing the Fund. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which provides for the National Assembly to confirm international agreements when the law provides for a commitment to confirm them. Dot. What does that mean? That this is an international contract. Among what nations? What countries? Wait, guys, don't play politics anymore. Say, we are for independent Kosovo, the EU is blackmailing us, we have to accept it on the next road to the EU, we have nowhere to go, we sacrifice Kosovo because we care about Brussels, and that's it. Be honest once in the history of your political career, and that's politics. I mean, that's LDP policy for 10 years, you haven't come up with anything new, you've continued LDP policy. Therefore, I ask you, first, that this item of the agenda be removed from the agenda, because it simply denies the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, denies the preamble to the Constitution and recognises independent Kosovo. There is an even more dangerous thing than that, with this agenda point, we are starting to cooperate in creating a great Albania. It is not enough just for independent Kosovo. The EU now expects us to go to the great Albania, so we are making way for Nis-Pristina, and beyond for Tirana, for Durres. It is nothing but the highway of the great Albania or perhaps NATO corridor between the Adriatic and the Black Sea. With this Fund for the Western Balkans, which, don't forget, is based in Tirana and says, Mr Dacic, nice in one place here in chapter 3 of the Statute, organisational structure -- the main bodies of the fund are the foreign ministers' conference. Wait, what foreign ministers? Have you, Mr. Dacic, completed these political teachings, foreign affairs in the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces or are foreign affairs directly in the jurisdiction of independent and sovereign states? So, if you're sitting with the foreign minister of the fake Cypriot state of Kosovo, you've recognised Kosovo. If you sign a contractual relationship with him and form together a Fund for the Western Balkans, you directly participate in recognising an independent Kosovo, and in particular we can talk about what you are also involved in a major Albanian project, and during that time, since you are the foreign minister and you have a very important thing in your job description for which you will always get the support of the Serbian Dveri Movement, but you have to move things from a dead spot, which is the relationship to Serbs in the region and the dissipation. You have the Law on Serbs in the region and the 2009 budget fund for Serbs in the region, and the budget fund in the region, and it says zero in the budget fund. Let's make that fund. It's the fund we need. It is our fund for the Balkans, a fund for Serbian integration, a support fund for Serbs in the region and a dissipation, a fund for the unification of Serbian countries in the Balkans. That's what we're interested in, not big Albania. Leave the great Albania to the Albanian politicians. They're working on it very successfully anyway. We make roads for them. I mean, well, it could be that trip, it used to be Boro and Ramiz, and now it could be Alexander and Eddie, for example, the name of that highway. That's not the point...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4638	Do you know anything about the agenda? I'm completely lost listening to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4639	I'm going to make a very brief point that unites all these points of the agenda. You have not deviated from the policy of the former regime, as you call it, Boris Tadic. You're continuing that path. Furthermore, you owe the state through a series of new loans, you don't invest that money in the development of domestic entrepreneurship, domestic economy and agriculture, which would make sense to borrow. You support the budget, you save yourself from the deficit, and you boast that you have a surplus and that your budget is stable. Who knows what else you owe the United Arab Emirates, except for the gift of land "Belgrade on the Water" and a series of other things you gave them? On the other hand, completely ignore our Serbian national and state interests in KIM and in a space wider than the Serbian state. Remember, we have our Serbian national and state interests in the space of the former Yugoslavia, not only in Serbia. Our people live in all the former Yugoslav republics. Our people are banished from the centuries-old hearths. That's what you need, Mr. Minister, to do business, not the Western Balkans Fund. What is it about this Fund, like the exchange of young people, students, education? You can do that without the Western Balkans Fund. Exchange young people and students. Who's defending you? Don't make a big Albania. Do not recognise an independent Kosovo. So that's what our problem is with this whole story of yours. I understand, you will say – I didn't ask myself anything in the government of Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic didn't ask me anything, he made decisions without my question, and Aleksandar Vukic asked you something? So don't get away with it. Stand by the Brussels Agreement. Stand behind that recognition of an independent Kosovo. Say yes, our government has done this brave act that Cedomir Jovanovic stood for in his time, but we have done it. So that's the point of the story now. Who needs the Western Balkans Fund? What is our Serbian interest in all this? Have we created any funds for Serbian integration? That's the question I'm asking you, and you have that jurisdiction. You do not have the authority only to negotiate with the separatist regime in Pristina, but you have the authority to care for all Serbs in the region and to connect Serbs in the region. Where is your Serb assembly in the region and the distraction? Where's your budget fund for Serbs in the region and dissipation? He's gone. Where is your office director, or management in your ministry of Serbs in the region and dissipation? He's been gone for two years. Wait, can't the great Albania be more of a priority in Serbia's foreign policy than Serbian integration in the Balkans? (The People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party are earning. I understand the nervousness of the SNS, of course, but let the opposition say what he has.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4640	That's right. Just say the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4641	For two years, Madam Chairman, KIM has not come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now that it's in the footnote of someone there in an international, interstate agreement, you put it in a common five-loan search point. So let us talk about KIM and that the path you're going is not good, that this is the way of giving up Serbian national and state interests, that this is the path that you, because of this disastrous, devastating road to the EU, sacrifice many of our national and state interests. So, please, if it wasn't a good former regime, Boris Tadic, don't go down Boris Tadic. If that regime was bad, and you are doing the opposite of that regime, do not continue the way it has drawn up, do not take the personnel of that regime. So you just have to define yourself. In that sense, I expect the ministers to give a detailed answer to this question and to show us why, in fact, we should take these loans, where we will invest them, that domestic production in Serbia will increase or raise to many domestic banks? And where will we have the interest of the Western Balkans Fund to resolve any Serbian issue in the Balkans, which will help any Serb in the Balkans? We are helping to create an independent Kosovo, and we are not helping to create a great Albania. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) (Vladimir Orlic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4642	Easy, there's a lot of replicas. First the minister, then we'll take the lines after he's called all the parties here. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: The faithful did not mention us. Nobody mentioned you to the radicals. Vladimir Orlic, just let him sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4643	Thank you, Madam President. I feel the need to point to the content of articles 106 to 109. You did react when presenting the previous speaker, but I consider it because of everything that's happened, we need to remind ourselves once more of the contents of these members. First it's about the agenda, which doesn't happen constantly here and after on-call patriots before the election, now this man's joined the stories of everything except what's the matter of the agenda. But the 107th most important dignity of this home that has been violated almost every time that man says or does something in this room, and after warning he keeps doing it, which has to do with the members of 108th and 109th, but I'm going to try to do this as calmly as I see that exactly the conflict that this man would want most, and that's why he's doing exactly what he's doing. So, I think it is necessary, if we want to preserve this home's dignity to make it more directly known to that person that the behaviour it demonstrates here is not for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Maniries from the bottom of the snakes, gentlemen, have no place in this high house. It may be done in front of a cooperative or in front of a liquor cellar, it's not a level for this place here, it's the first thing. The other thing, when all the deposits of insults and poisons form these words, remains one absolute nothingness, one endless void, as a mirror which brings these words here, and a man who is not able to teach us lessons here, because whatever he thinks of himself, we will not be told of the national interest of the Serb lover Franjo Tudjman. I'm not asking us to vote on this, I'm asking to refrain from reacting, although the only legitimate reaction is disgust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4644	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4645	President-in-Office, I am advocating the violation of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, at the session of the National Assembly, it is not permitted to directly address the MP to another MP using offensive expressions. Especially here I say, a fellow SNS colleague here said this man, some man, we find that an offensive term for the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4646	You know what, first of all, that provision of the Rules of Procedure has already been advertised, my colleague Orlic has advertised, unable to make a new breach of the Rules of Procedure while pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Being a man, that man was with you on the list, even though your party is one of the signatories of CEFTE, a similar agreement, but it's his problem and he doesn't know it, or knows it. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Obradovic, on what basis? (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I am "the man". And you are “that man, ” but there is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am sorry. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: He spoke of me. Well, there isn't. Wait for it to replicate. On what grounds are you colleagues of Sarovic? (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure) And you, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4647	Mr. Arsic, article 107 has been injured. The National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4648	You can't do a colleague, Sarovic. You are the third to that article 107. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I answered first, so Mrs Maja reset the system and said she wrote it down. But you weren't in the Rules of Procedure, I can't see here. I see Mr Vujovic reporting as minister, Marko Djurisic answered, Aleksandra Tomic, Nemanja Sarovic, did. (Nemnja Sarovic, from the post: Ask the secretary. I know, but it's already been pointed to that breach of the Rules of Procedure. Third injury to the same member. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: Then Article 106.) Ask for a word then.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4649	Article 106 says the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda under investigation. Mr. Bosko Obradovic spoke of many things, among other things talking about who formed which party. For example, he said Boris Tadic formed a SNS. I agree with that, but I ask Mr. Bosko Obradovic – how did he not mind when he and the same SNS protested against Boris Tadic's regime? Then I ask him -- how did he not mind the LDP and DS policy that he says propagates great Albania, when it was necessary to force him into the Assembly to provide them with votes? So I ask him, "How does this bother him with SNS policy, and he didn't mind the role of SNS and most of the RIK that allowed them to be there today? I will remind you that in the second round of Radulović, Canak, Tadic, Ceda Jovanovic and others are pushing him into the NSRS. Therefore, if a person calls for consistency, he should be consistent to the end and talk about everything. We in the SRS think we're the only ones who can boast of leading consistent policy for 25 years. If you're attacking Hansel Dacic for a change of coalition partners, then go ahead. And you were ready to enter that government. What they didn't want, that's your problem, but don't attack others.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4650	I thank my colleague Sarovic. I don't think he's a member of 106. Rules of Procedure broken. If what you said about voting in RIK is true, I don't know, but believe me, it would be very boring here in parliament if Mr. Obradovic wasn't an MP. (Bosko Obradović, from town: Thank you. ) (Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: You put it. Hello. That's why, you see how you know. The word first comes from Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4651	I will take the opportunity to respond to some suggestions that seem to me, said Mr. Lapcevic, if I have written well and to make my comments on Mr. Obradovic's discussion. There won't be any personal address. So the question of how much has been spent on modernising the public administration so far, and how is this loan even related to the modernisation of public administration? Each reform, including public administration, requires the costs normally incurred in the existing items in the budget. We get some things as a gift from a lot of people. Like, we're doing what's called. horizontal and vertical analysis, doing a full catalogue of new jobs, doing a whole new reward system. It's going to take a lot of effort to do a whole new matrix system rewarding in the public sector, so these are clogged operations. In the Ministry of Finance, we are now in the second phase of the job, where we have already received first analyses and now we need to do action plans on what to do this year, and what in the next two, three years, say, a fundamental reform of the tax administration, one such document. It costs hundreds and hundreds of thousands of euros in the West, it requires people's time in the tax administration, people's time in our country, we have to, and you know by our laws to change anything, you have to have a new systemization that will predict a different organisational scheme and every place. So, first he's asking for huge expenses. Secondly, the funds of this loan that you mentioned and which relate to support public administration reforms are not related to those costs. They are intended for general budget support, given that reform causes costs, an additional part of what you all know, which is not very popular to mention, which is the cost of severance and human transfer, and human retraining. Let's say, we want to transfer 1,500 people from existing jobs that are not aimed at increasing tax revenues, but at fulfilling administrative procedures, to changing them. You know, for example, horizontal analysis has shown that we have 15% of people on temporary and occasional jobs and 30% of people not in the ministry's primary business, but in the administration and in the old way. So that's a huge cost, that's an explanation that reform has a budget cost. Your question is entirely relevant. Did we run an analysis of what's been spent so far? We can do it as an integral part of the realization of this project. So there's going to be a whole series of things being done in this project. As far as the specific things covered by this project are concerned, as is usually the case with such projects, you have a measurement matrix on page 32, which is attached to the Ratification Act, which only has two members and is attached to the whole loan contract, and in addition to that contract, you have a whole document that evaluates this loan on the World Bank's website and on the Ministry site, where it is written up to detail what it includes. So this includes elements of change, ways of organising and evaluating public administration jobs, changes in public procurement and changes in the public finances management system. A very clogged topic with very many things. We've chosen about a dozen indicators based on which we're going to achieve these results and get funds. The funds here are symbolic. For this size of business, about 69m euros, which I think is written there as 80m dollars, which have been transferred to the euro, will be 20m in four years next year. It's one crumb that compensates for the increased administrative cost that we'll be exposed to if we do this the right way. That's the answer to the question - how is it related? It's tied up, and it's very clear. We're not the only country. That's what all the countries in the world did. Many also had working groups. It would be good if parliament formed its own group to monitor administrative reform and assist in the whole process. Secondly, as far as the budget is concerned, the data from some, I think, observed inconsistency, is actually a word of two periods. This is the figure you mentioned at 498 and 501, the deficit of about three or four billion was on June 30th, and the figure on the surplus of 22m euros refers to July 30th. It's not unconsistent numbers, it's just a second period. I checked with my colleagues from the Treasury and my colleagues from the budget. So, you received a report on June 30th, and the number with which you quoted the prime minister refers to July 30th. The third question that seems very relevant to me and we would like to have a lot more discussion in that direction is the question of currency risk in this loan and everything else. The talks on this loan started in February of the month, and then the government became a technical government and we didn't think we had a mandate to continue talks until the government was formed and that's why it was so delayed. This Abu Dhabi development fund, which all these funds have taken over and manages all such loans in the country that apparently has surplus capital and benefits that capital for both investment projects and structural projects and for these projects supporting the budget, does so in places where they consider it important. You can ask for official interpretation. They considered, not only international financial organisations supported the Serbian budget. We have money from the EU, we have money from the Russian Federation, we have money from all international organisations, we have money from these. Therefore, we have no discrimination there. Who wants to support our budget as part of the projected deficits, these are subsidized money that means that we work quality. Don't make something that's a reward for our work that sounds bad. I'm sorry, but I have to say, as someone says in a joke, I refuse to insinuate that there's any interest here but of the highest honorary interest. Abu Dhabi developent pan has professionalized and has an international supervisory board that cares about having a "tripple email" rating. Among other things, they also moved to the local currency to strengthen their currency and its rating in the world. We watched carefully, they've had a fixed rate for the dollar since 1997, and by my estimates and for the next 10 years, they'll stay that way. They're contracting to sell oil in dollars. So this is just their attempt to get full recognition in the world and maintain their rating this way. I don't think there are any plans. Whether there's a synergy between that and the project loans we're talking about, you can interpret that as well as I do. I think it exists, but I think it's a positive synergy. If someone like the World Bank gives us money to support the budget and gives us money for the projects, so is here. Why wouldn't someone with such means at their disposal do that? I repeat, the Russian Federation has also supported both the EU and the World Bank and the European Bank. Among other things, this loan you mention, the second one I mentioned, has a part that gives the EU. There's a so-called. The "Balget Suport sector" that runs parallel to this World Bank loan and which will very soon come here for ratification as well. As for the relationship between the money that goes to support the budget and everything else, I think that's something that's supposed to be obvious to everyone. I don't want my clarification to sound like I'm giving someone a hand, if you're funding a budget and financing a whole system of budget transparency yourself, look at the budget that's been a public document since last year. In Article 3, you have a part of the funding relating to the funding of the deficit and then you have a part relating to the financing of project loans, up to detail. We plan to deepen it in the next period. I need to explain this. We keep going back to the same thing. How is it possible for you to ask a question that is so detailed in the budget, until the pain is written in detail. We can step up the report, move on to the performance report. That's where your suggestion, criticism and everything else is welcome, but don't say it's not clear how it is. Anti-vulnerability. In the next sentence, you say – and where we use funds directly to reduce the risk margin and improve access to small and medium-sized enterprises in lending, which is this loan from the European Investment Bank, you say – it is for the commission, etc. You know what, if that's the way we're gonna talk, if you're always going to look at the negative side, then I don't know what kind of solution exists. One is general budget support, which through this, helps both subsidies to agriculture and development and flood protection and all living things we do in the budget. That relationship should be obvious to everyone. If she's in realisation doing it the best way, if we can do it better, I think we're going to try it so-called. by programing budgeting to do, to make the programmes link between budget deficits and all programmes and results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4652	Thank you. Right to replication, MP Marko Djurisic, if that is what he asked for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4653	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to respond to the thesis of my colleague Obradovic that this government is just continuing the policy of the previous government and Mr Boris Tadic, since these two policies are heaven and country. The policies led by the then government and this current government and internal opportunity are also completely different. When negotiations on the regional representation agreement were in 2011, the opposition SNS claimed it would annul all these agreements, that these agreements were treasonous public and organised the burnings of Jarinja, and secretly said something else, and then apparently took some of the commitments. Then the minister here says, and it is just amazing to me that there is no reaction to it, says the fact that we are ratifying the International Treaty in the Serbian Parliament today is due to the Berlin process, in order for us to continue, we have to ratify all the agreements. Who is responsible for putting such conditions before Serbia in the Berlin process? Is Boris Tadic responsible for something that started in 2013, the Berlin Process began? Who's responsible? Who was the prime minister? Who was in that government? In 2012, an agreement was reached on regional representation at regional conferences, not to be signed in both the Serbian parliament and the ratification of international agreements. And that's the result of your policy. Well, then the minister says one amazing thing, he says -- I would be happy if Kosovo and the star were looking for a UNESCO membership. How can you be happy?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4654	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4655	Only that star seems to make you unhappy, which doesn't have a star. If we have the best friends in the world now, how did you get Kosovo's reception, where is everything received in the last four years?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4656	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4657	With regard to Article 104 and the right to a replica, which was just used by the MP, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if that was heard, since it was very loud and seemed rather chaotic. This was a violation of the right to replication. So someone is reporting to respond to what the authorised representative was saying, as we heard, more than half an hour ago, and then he's sending some messages to the SNS and talking about it. I think there was room for a reaction here, and speaking of reasons for what's going on here, it would be equally inappropriate if I were to take this opportunity to tell him that what he just did might be a kind of confirmation of an off-the-book coalition, which was immortalized in front of the RIK. If this is a common direction, it should be borne in mind that this implies a coalition with those who boasted and at the session of the KIM Committee, and today, that the best students are Edith Tahiri and that they intend to outdo it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4658	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4659	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, half an hour ago I asked for a replica of Mr. Bosko Obradovic's presentation, where he cited a series of insults and lies when it comes to SNS. The theory which he says, who made whom he should not be very proud of, because he personally boasted that the DSS and the Serbian Orthodox Church had built Dveri, and then went into funding by Mr. Gilas in 2012 in the elections. So it was you who were made, and you never had a policy today. Since I have the right to another replica of the previous speaker, when the party is also mentioned, I would say, I would quote one sentence from Mr., the deceased, Tijanic, who says, "Every one moves within the limits of its corruption." Everything you think you'd do, you attribute to the SNS. We will never recognise an independent Kosovo, but what you are willing to admit, it is probably very well recognised by the citizens of Serbia, so they do not give you more than 5 per cent in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4660	The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4661	I answered for two reasons. First, to apologize, I'll have to go to a meeting with the Secretary of the National Security Council of the Russian Federation, Mr. Patrushev, but I'll be back, and there'll probably be a break, I guess. As far as these things are concerned, I'd just like to remind you of what the Regional Presentation Agreement says. It is an agreement on regional representation and co-operation, not only on representation. It clearly states -- Kosovo with a star is the only name to be used in regional co-operation. Both sides confirm their commitment to effective, inclusive, inclusive means that everyone participates, and representative regional co-operation. Kosovo participates in its account and speaks for itself at all regional meetings. When the new agreements are initialled or signed, a representative of Kosovo with a star will be signed under the name of the above-mentioned paragraph. So let's not just talk about representation now. It's about co-operation, agreements that will be signed, but I support it. Don't think I'm against what's agreed. I have expressed regret because Kosovo, including some EU countries, are forgetting about this agreement and very often international organisations are trying to join without any stars and anything else. When it comes to other topics, I would remind you that this isn't the first time we've encountered a problem like this. The government of Vojislav Kostunica also met with the problem when the EU's Rearmission Agreement was signed, and it is well written that the scope of the territorial application of the agreement on Serbia will be defined in the negotiations. Well, it can't be defined now in the Agreement that the scope of the territory will be defined in the negotiations, but what else can be done? The CEFTA agreement signed by Mr Parivodic was before Kosovo's declaration of independence, and was then signed by UNMIK and a representative. What's UNMIK? Is that the Republic of Serbia? What are you talking about? Kosovo with a star actually means that this is what we think and write in a fus note – in accordance with Resolution 1244. So, what, what's the difference? Now you're saying that you were right to sign it like this, and now there's something wrong here. It's a tough subject, and I'd really be happy if instead, we're talking about something that's not real right now that we can do, to watch how we're going to go on when it comes to foreign and internal politics, and no one, unfortunately, is taking so many years of these problems that sometimes we think we can do, that's enough to say we're not admitting anything now, and we're just going to pretend like it's not happening right now. Unfortunately, it happens. You know, I was, like you said in all the structures and I was when independence was declared and then I was an opposition. No, in 2008, when independence was declared, the government of Tadic and Kostunica and Kostunica was prime minister. We've been in opposition, these are rare moments, but here we go. You know what, you're talking about it now, and it'd be like a Star or Partizan attacking so many years of champions. Well, I'm not fighting another league. This is about that there are some things that happen in international relations and international politics without anyone asking us for our opinion. We have a situation that many countries in the world are making a decision on Kosovo's recognition. There are 85 countries that have not yet recognised Kosovo's independence and that is why we have to work on it if we want to face it seriously. We don't run a treasonous policy. Those are the words you used and I don't think those words are correct, they're not correct, because we sacrifice, someone will say we sacrifice the European path. We don't sacrifice it, but we deliberately say it and slow it down, we don't have to open up any chapters at all if it's a condition for Serbia to give its property around Telekom, etc. You're not going to open chapters, so what, that doesn't mean we're going to sign all that now. It is a unique position of the government of the Republic of Serbia and we are not complicit in creating an independent Kosovo, but we must save what can be saved. And, in all of this, we need to be realistic, that we do not think that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's meeting will solve Kosovo's problem. So it's important that in the next period, it seems to me, we get much better into understanding these processes that are happening and that you don't think that there are any secrets. There aren't any secrets, everything here is already known enough, the papers are written more than there is any document at all. I'll be out for a while, hopefully there'll be a break, I heard there'll be a half-three or two break, so I'll be back, but that's proof of what international obligations we have. It's not just the EU now, we have the Russian Federation as a very important factor and simply, we have no reason to make good or bad about the harm of anyone else. The most important thing is to look at our interests, as the English say, is that only interests, friends and enemies are permanent. In that sense, our only main interest is Serbia. So I invite you to approach this issue like that, and not now to turn out to be a matter of stars and footnotes, the greatest national betrayal, or it's simply realistic and it's not fundamentally true. And that's why I've been picking up all this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4662	In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: No quorum. No quorum? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4664	Infringement of Rules of Procedure 104, which says the MP of insult has the right to replication. So here, several times mentioned the name of Parliament Group head Dveri Bosko Obradovica, Mr. Chairman, and the Dveri parliamentary group. Currently they are not in the hall of people who mentioned the Dvori and who said the Dvori were founded by the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is absolutely a degutant mention of the Serbian Orthodox Church in the constitution. The Dvori have the support of the Serbian Orthodox Church and we are proud of it. But we don't understand why these things are being questioned... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4665	My colleague, you are now in line by advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague got a warning yesterday. (Ivan Kostic, from the site: Several times mentioned the Dvori in a negative context. ) You know what, Mr. Kostic, your head of Parliament, as he spoke, there's no party he didn't mention. I think he even mentioned radicals. So there's no party he didn't mention. I haven't been since yesterday. Yes, I know that you have a little 20-minute mandated representative of the motionor, i.e. the head or president of the parliamentary group, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group and the time that belongs to you. I know well that the parliamentary groups with so many MPs are fighting to provoke other MPs and to lead the debate with them. I respect that, but at some point we have to start and do what we've gathered for. (Ivan Kostic, from the scene: people called and said... They responded to him. Mr. Milojcic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4666	Mr. Arsic, thank you. I'm advertising Article 108. If I may refer to yesterday's session, yesterday you gave us a break so Mrs. Mihajlovic could go on a television show, and today you gave us a break so Mr. Dacic would leave... (Disabled micforone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4667	Mr. Milicic... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I guess they are answering to us, not MPs in parliament to them. ) The thing is the chairman when he's going to take a break. And as I am now in a position to chair, I've been in your position for a very long, very long, 12 years. That's why I appreciate your work as an MP, all of them, whatever the parties are from, but I've never used such things to attack the minister, the chairman or anyone else, ever. There's time, you'll learn. Mr. Lapčević, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4668	Article 104(2) - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the President or vice-president of the parliamentary group shall have the right to replication on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please, in accordance with this article, give me the right to reply to what was false and offensively spoken by Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4669	Mr. Lapčević, I couldn't tell from the presentation of Minister Dacic that he was saying something offensive. He asked the question just how come you weren't against the CEFTA agreement, and now you're against this agreement, nothing more. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: To answer him. He's not here right now. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4670	I'm sorry that Minister Dacic isn't here in the O.R. and it's not correct to mention him until he's here in the O.R., but I'm only going to talk about the way and approach we've seen in the last four years, so almost five years. In the first minute of explaining the point he was in charge of, which is the Fund for the Western Balkans, he called for DS and DS's position on the issue of launching dialogue with Pristina. I want to talk about consistency here, since we are calling for consistency here, including Minister Vujovic in financial terms, and of course the foreign minister, there are his colleagues and I think it is important that I mention it. The Democratic Party was in government, and I now confirm it, which has launched negotiations with Pristina. Part of the government was also foreign minister and SPS, and of course, that was the basis, the launch of this dialogue was also the basis for setting up both the current government and the previous two governments, therefore, of this current coalition, for setting up regional policy and the overall European policy. At the beginning of this debate, I will say that the Democratic Party will support the Fund for the Western Balkans for a number of reasons. We think we have a good example of the multicity process and the opening of a process that is important for co-operation to raise levels of trust and to communicate among people. We certainly support this process and because of the rise in regional co-operation levels, and unfortunately we are witnessing that just these days we see that these relations in the region are at a very low level, almost at a historical minimum when spoken, and most often taking that limit from 2000 to here. We will certainly support the initiative from this process to form a youth office, because I am sure it is a healthy investment in the future and future relations with much more trust and much more readiness for co-operation in the Western Balkans and throughout Southeast Europe. The third thing I'm going to mention from this point, which we've been offered in a rather unscrupulous way, because they're a variety of subjects, but what's common is my call to take responsibility. To the question that when the minister explains this point says it loud and clear – I am behind this decision, I am the one who signed the Brussels Agreement, I am the one who participated in the negotiations, sent by the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who signed this document, and I am authorized and I stand absolutely behind what you are told. We didn't hear it this way today, because once again, in the old custom, he referred to the Democratic Party, to some previous regimes, and I once again say that we are behind the previous approaches to regional policy and co-operation. What we also support is joint infrastructure projects that are planned and that should be supported in this way. So much for this subject, because I think there was more room to talk about this, because it's an extremely important topic, but it wouldn't be right, because the minister isn't here, there's no way to answer, but I said this because of his associates and all his colleagues and colleagues who have been constantly calling for something that the previous government did. Another important topic is certainly new agreements on loans from the Republic of Serbia. I would say this to Minister Vujovic – why this level of mistrust, which could be smaller and where could we build a more civilized dialogue and on these financial topics, if there were no permanent access, you in the past government owed the country this much, you are so much? We've often listened to false arguments and bad data and on one side and on the other side or on the third side or on the tenth side, as many of those sides as there were. I think it's important that we talk here about true data, but that each of us stand firm behind that data, because we need the truth, both in this first topic and in the subject of responsibilities. One of the thematics that was always present – here, we were in debt and the minister said at the last session of the Assembly, confirmed that we had committed almost 9.5 billion euros, it was 10 billion, the debt fell to 24.2 and today he said so, but clearly, it should be said, so say you yourself. In May 2012, when the coalition won the republic's elections and the government's formation process, the public debt was 14.8 billion euros. We often hear data on the debt level at the end of 2012, but we remember, already in September, then Minister Mladjan Dinkic came with excellent news that we are in charge of two billion, it was September of the month, and that the state will not be in bankruptcy. Then we asked -- wait, who gives a country that is in front of bankruptcy in such a way an easy loan of two billion euros? That doesn't make sense. In simple and healthy logic, we'll agree on that. I think it's important that we stop bidding to really say what the data is. Yes, 14.8 billion at the time of the May 2012 elections. After four years, we have 10 billion euros in public debt more than these 24.2 billion, 9.5 at this point. It is good that this debt is reduced from 24.8 to 24.2. What's going to happen to this new assignment? We're talking, and these are the points of the agenda on multiple loans, of course, the most interesting is this biggest one of billions of dollars or 3.6 billion dirhams, and that's what we're talking about today the most. Here was the thesis and the claim that this responsibility would not raise public debt. It's really hard to understand that it won't raise public debt, because if you owe a billion euros, it won't raise public debt on the condition that you pay back a billion euros from another loan, and that you've cut interest and that's where you got it. All right, I accept that there will be a more favourable interest, but it is still fair to say the terms of the loans and the terms of the interest at the time when the previous governments were in debt, the size of the eurobor, the size of the libor, and the conditions that were then on the market. We know for ourselves, sometimes in the bank, you could get both 7 and 8% in foreign exchange, and now the bank's offering you nothing. Is that right? Any natural person who had some money or thought about it in such a way as to protect their currency could have known that it was once 8%, and now it gets 1%. That's also the topic to talk about. So it is undeniable that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is almost 10 billion more now than in 2012. It's an important topic and a proposal to you, Mr. Minister, because I think it's an extremely important topic that we didn't seem to be talking about in these two conferences, as much as I am in the Assembly, which is that we have the Budgetary System Act, is that right, that defines fiscal rules. One fiscal rule is one per cent of the deficit, another 45% of the public debt and the participation of public debt in the gross social product. So, we've been in the previous government since 2012, and the moment the public debt percentage was skipped, in the government where the Democratic Party was. That's what I'm trying to say. In 2012, there were 14.8 billion in May. This at one point represented 48% of the public debt relative to the gross social product, and that can be checked, and that's real data. It's all verifiable and you can see on official websites of institutions that publish these data. After that, we have a growth rate of 74%. Now fortunately, we've fallen to 70%. What does the Budget System Act say next? The budget system law says the government is obliged to give the National Assembly and MPs of the Republic of Serbia, with the budget being passed for next year, a proposal to measure public debt recovery if it exceeds 45% of the gross social product. We adopted here, this majority, with different prime ministers, first Ivica Dacic, later in two governments by Alexander Vukic and various finance ministers, because it is not only your responsibility, but the entire government. For four years, we have been breaking the law, and we in the National Assembly have never mentioned this violation of the law. So we have a law in which we can't go beyond public debt for 45% of gross social product, and all the time we're saying it's perfectly normal and we have the kind of debt we have. Thus, the law ordered the Executive Authority, the Government, to measure the proposal to the National Assembly on how it would resuscitate and lower public debt. So this is a proposal and I understand, Mr. Minister, it is true, it will be said, so the previous government has raised it. Yes, it raised to 48%, but also an opportunity to adopt a new budget for 2013, there was November, December, and the adoption of these measures, so the previous government had no opportunity. It is now an opportunity because we are ahead of the 2017 budget for the National Assembly to receive clear measures and a proposal for measures and analyses on the state of Serbia in this area. About this loan, I'd like to ask you some questions. We were talking about an extremely favourable interest rate of 2.25% we can agree on, but I would ask you how much interest is in the arrangement with the IMF and what we have as an open possibility of withdrawing funds and what is the comparison to that credit line we have with the IMF? The second question is guarantees for this loan, because here at point 4) it is said that the Republic of Serbia guarantees its assets and I think it is also important that we look at in that sense, I don't know exactly what point, but where it is defined in what way an arbitration would be conducted in possible disputes where one member of the arbitration is ours, one member is Abu Dhabi and a third member is from the Arab League. I doubt that in such a composition we can even count on the positive outcome of any dispute that might be opened in the realisation of this contract. I think it is important that you present to us and get more information on how we will protect the property of the Republic of Serbia that we guarantee, and I don't think it is sufficiently precise whether we will guarantee some hectares of agricultural land, whether we will guarantee some of the actions of public enterprises or whatever? I think it's important that this assembly gets that information before we decide to ratify this agreement. What did we get on the Finance and Treasury Committee when Mr. Minister and his associates were unable to attend, in response from the Public Debt Sector, how is it possible to listen all the time, we have often heard this in this room about the budget surplus, about the success of the budget, about the major inflows in the budget and about the much more rational budget management, and now we have a agenda point that says – we are withdrawing billions of dollars to support the Republic of Serbia's budget? We got a response from a colleague you sent, who wasn't authorized. She said somewhere that it could be the impact of local budgets, the budgets of cities that are in huge losses, on a huge deficit. She was probably watching that scene of Prime Minister and Mayor Nis when we heard in the park that the city's budget of Nis is in a 50m-euro deficit. What are the deficits of other cities? Is there a reason for the state of the budget in local self-governments that is often not charged with 50% or 60% of the planned funds, something that in a consolidated report increases this deficit you spoke of? I think it's some of the important topics. There are a lot of proposed laws here on the adoption of new loans, but I'd like to hear the answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4671	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4672	Just taxing to answer your questions and dilemmas. First, as I assume you know from the documents that were, perhaps it wasn't emphasized, we have with the IMF so-called. A precautionary arrangement. So, under this arrangement, we have the right to owe up to 1.2 billion euros on the basis of rights, but we do not use it. Therefore, the interest rate to be paid for is not applicable. So we're paying zero, we're not borrowing funds from the fund and we're not paying anything. (Goran Ciric, from the post: What would be the interest? She's changing. It's calculated according to the currency corfi, so it counts according to the SDR where the dollars and the euro and the yen enter, etc., so it counts according to their interest rates. The fund has the best of all these interest rates, but the funds are short-term, four, five years, no more. Since we're not going to use this is an academic category for us. So we're not even gonna borrow money, we're not gonna pay. I can find out, we can send you an answer, not a problem. So it counts and is published daily on the Fund website. There are countries that have privileged rates, but I don't want Serbia to be in that category. These are countries with very low income. So we'd have a standard rate if we used the funds. The funds are granted on the basis of some tables. They say you have quarterly audits, so three years times four quarters, 12 audits, about 100m euros, we get the right to withdraw if we want to. We went to this precautionary arrangement, so we're not going to borrow anything from the Fund to us, since we're a country that has access to financial markets not giving money to support the budget, but only to pay-balance position. As you know in the balance of payments, the situation is improving, we have more direct investments than the current balance of payments deficit, and we don't need funds to finance it. It's very important that we know that. So we're trying here, and there's so much we've accomplished that we don't need to be in debt. As for the World Bank, I mentioned in the context of this loan, we are currently paying 0.7-0.71, going maybe up to 1.2-1.5%, but that's a variable rate. If we wanted to turn it into a fixed, there'd be some kind of supplement. These are extremely competitive means, but they are limited by volume. So we at the World Bank will benefit from structural loans and project loans. The World Bank has the best rates, the EIB has even better rates, but it has limited funding, these are the funds that are limited in the four-year plan and we are now talking about what we are going to use these funds on. These 69m euros, which are given to support reforms, are primarily for the essence of supporting public sector reform, this type of funding. As far as the guarantee for this loan is concerned, it's like I said withdrawing funds within 2.5 years. They say minimum six months, the contract says, so it'll be practical every six months, in two and a half years we'll pull one billion. The payment will go from the age of five, and as I recall we said since October 2021, and then for the next five years, two tranches a year. The guarantee is just a budget. We give no guarantee in the property, we give no other guarantee than budgets and performances. So it's a classic loan of support to the budget where the programme and the essence of the budget are supported, fiscal consolidation itself, and the budget itself. The guarantee given by this parliament's ratification as a state is the only guarantee to be given. There's no connection between that and the property. God forbid, any country that goes into bankruptcy, then the state's all right with its property, but I think if we didn't get into it after 10 years of the blockade when we at the Paris and London Club hated all those situations, then I guess it's just one theoretical category. As far as the budget surplus dilemma is concerned, here's the connection. I'm really asking you to be correct here. Criticize, there's a lot of space where we can be better and please criticise it. Don't criticize something where we're really getting unexpectedly better results. Here in this House in December last year we adopted the Republic's budget with around 120 billion deficits. This adds about 40 billion deficits, the country's additional deficits, which are defacto corridors, Serbia's roads and local budgets, etc. This gives the total expected deficit of 160 billion i.e. 4% of the social product. That's what we agreed together last December. We've achieved as someone said here a small deficit, a minimum of four billion, after six months of 20 billion surpluses. With today, we are again about 30 billion surpluses of the republican budget, and we have to wait about 15, 20 days next month for all these results at the level of municipalities, corridors, roads, etc. to have the exact picture. I expect we're somewhere around zero, look out that's 10 months this year. By the end of the year we expect, the IMF has made a revision of the general government budget projection and said it will not be 160 but 80, including all expected debt acquisitions, and will be, you know, there are situations with both Petrochemy and possibly Bora, etc. These are situations where we feel the economic, social and state need to solve these issues from the past, because closing our eyes won't solve them themselves. So we think there's going to be room for us to stay within 2%, to solve all the problems of the past and go with one lot, to say a lower budget projection for next year and a real one, including all the expected salary increases, pensions, funds and everything else we plan to do next year, and here we're going to have a chance to discuss it together, to put it in the budget together. All of what I'm saying will be backed up by a full budget funding plan, both on the side of the free funds to finance the deficits and on the side of the project loans that we write. Some of these project loans have been implemented immediately since January of next year, and some, as you can see here, have come for ratification after six years. Why? Well, because there were or were no conditions to finalize it. So, I'm glad that after six years we can use this bank's favourable resources, that the unconditional settlement of endangered social layers is reconstructed, that conditions are created for a normal life, and I think it's good. As an economist, it always matters what the alternative is. The alternative to giving up that loan would be, and well, in which other way we will offer these people conditions of a decent life. So, I think it's important, that earthquake was, the earthquake was a good cause, a good reason to intervene, but I think it's justifiable and wider than that. So, in one environment, solid conditions are being created, and I think that in tandem with other projects, which will have the opportunity to ratify you in the future, which are projects to support the development of children in the early stages of life, means to support the development of not only kindergartens, but also the content offered there, to help all, to all minorities, to all cultural groups that deserve our attention and trust in the future, I said and support gender equality, because it is one of the most important elements, where mothers can leave a child in a quality kindergarten and continue their career within the appropriate period after childbirth. So that's the point. The bottom line is that by achieving such a good result, we have reduced the need for gross borrowing, but we have not reduced the need for borrowing, from the 24 billion that you mentioned -- 4.4 billion makes it either return, or refinances. Everyone knows the country can pay off as much as it has to. We're going to do some smaller things, some smaller loans, where the small sums are left, to get back, to get a better interest rate, and we're doing it, not just with these big loans, but on all the fronts. So, international banks, international markets, domestic banks, they're following us in this, and now they're lowering the rates at which they refinance the loans that the state has and that have public enterprises. That's very important. So, the effect of this improvement, the better rating, lowers the interest rates at which "Srbigas" and the EPS and others are in debt and will get more favourable conditions, will thus disburse their balances and provide the opportunity for them to do better business in favour of all Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4673	On what grounds? (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. Just an additional clarification. Only from the time of the authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4674	The issue of guarantees, Mr. Minister, and I think it was important to say, more clearly, whether we're going to get the proposal measure with this budget and the adoption of the 2017 budget and the violation of the public debt law, from 45%, so now we're at 70%. I think this National Assembly has the right to receive that proposal. But this property thing, I think maybe I'm misreading this article, and I think it's important that we all hear it here say, in terms of guarantees -- according to this loan agreement, we're talking about Abu Dhabi, the borrower gives up all the privileges and immunities of state property, state property and cash, that's probably what the budget means, but what's meant by this -- state property, and it's too wide, in the same country, the receiver and either abroad, so both in the country and abroad is property and cash, which will be clearly prescribed, supported and confirmed in the legal opinion referred to above. You said it was only a budget, but this mentions state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4675	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4676	If we remember the situation of the countries where such members have entered into the fact, then there is no obligation to a specific asset if that specific property is not placed on that specific property. Here every country as a sovereign debtor guarantees its assets abstractally, the state primarily finances its revenues from the budget, every commitment. If the state refuses for any reason indifference, bankruptcy, etc. Then there's a boat, a plane, and so on. I think the probability of such a scenario is so minor and that's standard. These aren't the rules for us, it's a standard formulation in the contract that every country as a sovereign debtor, as an individual who has a craft shop and guarantees all its assets, so also here the state as sovereign guarantees all its assets, money and everything else that will pay back the debt. Another would be that there is a mortgage in the congregation, for example. It doesn't exist. Therefore, if the state returns, no one can activate such a member. That's the point. Let me add one note. You mentioned in the last session where I was present, and today you mentioned data on the increase in debt. We are purely because this whole situation sounds politicised, and I am not a party member, but I would like to tell you, because of the correct information, the debt situation with the last day of the previous three prime ministers and today's, that is, with Prime Minister Vukic's latest data available. So Mirko Cvetkovic left 8.6 billion, surrounded. Ivica Dacic left 15.47 billion. Alexander Vukic accepted 20,595 at 20,6 billion, and today it's 24.15. So the difference here is by the figures – Mirko Cvetkovic contributed 6,846, Ivica Dacic 1,126, and Aleksandar Vukic 3,54. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4677	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4678	I thank the chairman. Dear guests, members of the Republic Government and representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs, in the opening statement by Minister Vujovic, who defended the borrowing, or a billion-dollar loan that RS should receive from the UAE, we listened to almost the same reasons and arguments that we heard in 2014 by his predecessor, Minister Lazar Krstic. In the meantime, we heard a few other statements that differed from the minister to the minister- which is actually the objective of this task, so we heard from the present minister that we would finance or make commitments on the basis of existing dollar loans or just paying interest, or it would be a combination of early repayment loans and return of interest and principals. Then we listened to Minister Dacic who said and signed the agreement that the objective of the loan is to support Serbia's economic development by reducing financing costs, improving the country's economic situation and contributing to the planned development. Today we heard some additional arguments, I can but I'm not inclined to believe it, since Minister Mihajlović spent hours yesterday explaining that this government is no longer working on - mother we, and here the first day it turns out that it's quite the opposite and that's exactly what LSV cannot accept, and that's that because of the so many arguments we've heard today, we didn't get a concrete plan of that spending, we didn't get a spending structure because we'd very much like to see it say how you really tried to explain it today. A team before one of the arguments was in 2014, then Governor NBS, Mrs Tabakovic, spoke of it, that a special control body would also be formed to oversee the spending of funds from an almost identical loan also worth a billion dollars taken in 2014. To date, we have no information about what the control body was doing, which has reached conclusions, whether there is any report on it or whether that control body is even formed, so I would like to hear that answer from Mr. Minister. I must admit that we are surprised that we did not get a much more precise structure of spending these funds, for the simple reason why we do not consider Minister Vujovic, I would say, the unsuspecting minister, as some of the Ministers of People's Parliaments had previously represented themselves, Mrs Brnabic, Mr Minister of Education, who often called in discussions with the MPs for the new ministers and that they may not have been very good at this post at the beginning of their first term, and we do not really consider you a surprise minister, and we expected a much more detailed plan, i.e. an absolutely concrete and detailed plan on how these funds will be spent. We also cannot, without remembering the situation that hit us in September of the month, when practically frozen activities related to the IPARD agricultural programme and when it turns out that Serbia is not qualified to withdraw funds, in fact to compete and withdraw funds from IPARD funds that are free, therefore grants, we are talking about EU funds, but it turns out to be much easier to borrow. Also one of the arguments was that this loan should not be looked at in the teeth. We've heard the reasons he's almost as a gift, which, of course, he's not. We know the very good difference between gifts and loans. One of the arguments was by the lender, in this case the UAE, that they are very much concerned with what these funds will be spent on. This was one of the key arguments in 2014, where there were no conditions by the lender in which direction and how these funds would be spent. We can understand that the position of the lender is such, but we cannot accept that the position of the borrower is such either by the MPs or by the citizens who will need to repay the amount of this task tomorrow. It is also very easy to believe, too, that it is precisely for the purpose of the problem, as we would say - there is a rabbit in that bush, because the funds that are withdrawn from the EU have to be justified. I believe that we all know how complex the procedures are, that strict audits of EU and European Commission representatives are when it comes to spending European funds, and as we can see, in this case, this is not the case, or the lender is not at all interested in knowing and not concerned about how this money will be spent. What he says, we can understand, but we do not understand that on our side it is not much more detailed and more precise and everything that is said in today's day, which is likely to be written and recorded, and stenographically, it can also be our working material that the MPs will receive, but simply we believe that, given that it is really a professional person run by the Ministry of Finance, one much more transparent and structural content of planning to spend this loan worth a billion dollars was necessary, that we would ultimately believe in the purposes that have been brought forth here, rather than to be reduced to what Minister Mihajlović tried to deny yesterday, that it would not work on "mothers we". What I would further ask is, although you have touched on several occasions and relations with the IMF, but I would also like you to repeat, perhaps more specifically and more specifically, what the IMF's position on these duties is. What I would point out may be as a distraction and the chairman, given that I respect the fact that Minister Dacic is not present, since we have more points on the agenda in a united debate, what was unacceptable for us leaguers is, as many colleagues have noticed, the way and tone he addresses the MPs and that he is such and that his manner is also unacceptable. We may be in other circumstances, so in this place we take order and act in the way we feel it is proper. The fact that he is really breaking out against the MPs cannot be accepted as a valid circumstance in terms of his character, and especially, as I have noted, the opposition's objection, as he has addressed us, that we are not going to salt his mind about how he should behave in the process of dialogue and how he should defend Serbia's views. I wish there was, I believe, a way to wash away what we've noted to his address, that Minister Dacic is also the last person to need someone to salt their minds about politics and dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4679	Mrs. Tepic, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4680	The theme is, we have a united discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4681	We have a united discussion. I saw myself here and the minister who came to the jeans and ministers who skipped the parliamentary benches and ministers who insulted the MPs when they spoke, only then were the speakers, etc., so I ask you to speak about Minister Dacic when he was here, so he can answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4682	I've been here all day, waiting in line, 10.05 hours reported, didn't get my turn. I'm sorry, I can't adapt my time to his daily duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4683	When there is a minister's behaviour in the building of the agenda theme assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4684	I'm sorry to interrupt, I've made it quite clear, I've taken great care of the words I say, I've also said that the objection to the address of the chairman, among other things, and I haven't had a chance to reply, or to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, to do what is right, I ask you to take this account, because, you will allow me to finish the sentence, Minister Dacic and any of the ministers cannot address the MPs in this way and cannot tell us after 20 years of the reasons why our democratic parties have been established, as has LSDV, which have been created by calling for dialogue, and not for the sake of gun-wrestling and that now, after 20 years, someone tells us how difficult it is to conduct dialogue and how all of his working time has gone on such a difficult task. We know that very well, and we are glad that everyone understood after 20 years that this is the only time, and the price we have paid for all this, because of the war-scramming, gun-scramming, etc., is among other things Minister Vujović, and one of the prices we pay today. Speaking also of the Euro-integration process, the minister who has not been present, but is important to say, should not forget that the opening of negotiating chapters has been a recognition to all governments working on these jobs since 2000, or since 2002, that the Euro-integration process of the Republic of Serbia was not launched in November last year, so that the first chapters would be opened in December. This process lasts in continuity, especially since 2002, faster or slower, less or more successfully, but all governments have failed, so to speak, from this process. Of course, I am obliged to mention a difficult period for all of us, when some of today's decision-makers satanicized democratic or pro-democratic parties, calling... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4685	My colleague, I beg you to return to the subject. Here, I let you go for a few minutes you were talking about things that had absolutely nothing to do with the agenda. If you're talking about governments in 2001, 2002, European integration, how much credit it is, etc. I don't have as President Maja Gojkovic said you don't mind organizing the stands and you can say whatever you want on them. No, this is a session of the National Assembly and you have a agenda, so I'm asking you to stick to the agenda, so the subject. I also understand the political message, I understand the desire to say something outside the box, but that it has some measure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: And who measures this measure? ) Chairman. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: And where does it say? ) It says in the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Zivkovic. It says. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Which member? Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4686	Thank you, let me finish. I didn't insult anyone, I didn't do anything with passion, I was just talking about the fact that they're part of our closer or further history. I don't know why it's forbidden to be here where I talk about my job, not to schedule parallel stands and act like I'm an NGO. Please allow me. By defending the other points of the agenda, the minister referred to the negotiating process, the multi-city group, the various initiatives that are our job. Please, the negotiating process, all negotiating chapters, are the issue of our foreign and internal policies. I don't see why this isn't the place and these aren't the agenda points to talk about that way. I may be talking in a different way than is expected or usual, but let me speak exclusively of facts, I'm not improvised, I'm citing periods that are extremely important, and also for this government, and I'm asking you to let me finish. So, the negotiation process is exclusively a question of our internal and foreign policy, as I recall the first point of the exposé was related to Eurointegration, and in that sense LSV is ready to support the establishment of the Balkan fund, but let me also say that this phase has ever occurred and that Serbia has been able to enter the process of opening chapters, because we are not all patients here...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4687	My colleague, I'll read you the agenda. We are discussing: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for the Development of Abu Dhabi; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Framework Agreement on the Loan, No. 1830; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Treaty on the APEK Loan; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on the loan of Modernisation, Optimisation and Public Administration; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement on the Establishment of a Fund for the Western Balkans. Come on, explain to me, I'm trying, I'm very incompetent to understand what this has to do with the opening of a chapter?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4688	You're not incapable of understanding, don't mind, that's what you said yourself. Also, I'm not able to understand how you can't bear this kind of criticism, and for me, it's a fact of fact. The fact that you can't make a connection between what I'm saying and what the agenda points are, I really don't have the authority to appreciate what that's about. I'm trying to explain how it came today, given the first sentences of Minister Dacic, who I'm not going to say "shut out" but brought out what he had in a very bad tone and picked himself up and left. Well, don't stop us from taking part in the work that we're doing right now, I really can't do my work day and my hours to adapt to the minister whether he's here or not, I'm sorry he's not here. But I really don't think it's appropriate for you to interrupt me, that you could have lasted just a few more minutes, and that this debate would come to an end. So, I'm just going to say it one more time, although I'm sure the finance minister has written down the questions I've asked, which I haven't heard the answer to so far, what's going on and if there's any way that Governor Tabakovic listed the control body that was supposed to control and the funds borrowed from the United Arab Emirates in 2014 worth a billion dollars. If that control body has been formed, what has been done so far, if there is a report and if there is, I would pray that, as long as these discussions continue, they will be addressed to the MPs so that we can see exactly what this amount is divided into, or what these funds are intended to do. Also, I ask you to answer me why you have not prepared a concrete plan, that is, the structure of the spending of this new loan, and I am sure that you have already recorded it and that you will answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4689	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4690	Thank you very much. I see, I thought that was understood, but since I see that there is a need to further explain the difference between programming and project borrowing, allow just a few sentences. So, what's so-called? software borrowing, so-called DPL or structural loans to Europe or structural loans to anyone including, I'll be louder. So, so-called. software credits for the so-called ‘so-called’. general support for the budget, and it is not contradictory that they support development as there are also capital budgets in the budget and support development, and it is not the contrary to being said in parallel, on the side of concrete spending that this serves to finance the interest of the established principals and early repayments of certain loans, it does not contradict each other at all. You ask the question, what money is being spent on. In funding planning, global funds are being planned. So in Article 3b. which goes when we propose a budget, when we are in December or at the end of November or in December to discuss next year's budget, those loans will all be in Article 3b. there are all project and programme loans that need to cover budget financing. He also, for example, Abu Dhabi, the first billion dollar loan of 14 August 2014 entered and went into the account of the consolidated Treasury account, specifically at the expense of the dollar, at the NBS. The money from that account can be spent exclusively within the system, the single system of the Treasury, so by the orders we issue where there is complete documentation of what is being spent. In particular, I think that 90% of the funds went to finance the outstanding liabilities of paying off the principal and paying off the interest on the dollar loans. Remember then, the exchange rate between dollars and the euro was changing rapidly, and we avoided that billion-dollar buffer from which the exchange rates hit our budget. So we didn't have to go out on the market and buy a dollar at a higher rate than we used that liquidity reserve. In the meantime, it went down to almost zero, now these funds are coming and it will be charged at 200 million a year and will be used in the same way. The money goes to the NBS, the money can only be made available to the Treasury, and the Treasury at the Public Debt Authority's order, Branko tells them, the war of that and that loan, let's say, December 20th, gives them a warrant and then the Treasury gives them a warrant from the state where these 200 million are due. It's all documented to the last cent. What you're talking about, it's that someone is going back now, to add up all those transactions and give a sumble report. Part of it is located in the so-called so-called. The final budget account, I think there are some technical problems here, I expect that a final account will come to you very soon where it will all be obvious, and there may be a special report here on the use of credit. Now, how do you use those loans? The so-called standard, outside DPL, or software loan is not linked to any transaction, it is given to support the budget in general. So you have a deficit of, say, two billion euros, they give you from a variety of sources enough credit money to support you, and the rest will be collected on the domestic and international financial markets. What's the role of the IMF, you mentioned. The role of the IMF is double. One is that in advance when you plan a budget, you agree that it's real, it's credible that you can do it, so you're not coming out of the domain of your credit ability to do it. The second role is that none of these lenders, say the World Bank, can go to their board of directors with a proposal for a program loan unless there is a letter from the Fund or a programme that is under way. So without that program, the bank won't give you DPL, very simply, so the connection is double. In advance, the Fund says whether it's in agreement with your program, and the bank will say, "Here." The moment the government became a technical government, they stopped approval of the DPLs even though we met all the conditions, since the government couldn't sign it, we had a break in continuing the programme with the Fund. It's all freezing now and by the end of the year we have 200 plus 100 plus these 75, which we are discussing here today as 69m euros. So it's nature. As part of this, there are more precise forms of DPL, program loans, some of which are called "pi force" results programmes. So where you do a program, say here in particular, you commit to introducing a catalogue of occupations, to introduce a payment matrix, to introduce systems to publish these common tenders, etc., and they say -- that's what you've accomplished, here's 20 million this year. So, the programme is being given, and funds are being provided for the achievement of this programme, which support without binding to specific costs. The costs only relate to project loans, or so-called project loans. loans and it's now results based disbursements, it's the third kind that says, say, in floods, for me, all the costs of pumping water, building objects, repairing tracks, etc., it doesn't give you extra costs in the budget, but it replaces those costs so that the budget frees you from these things that could be called one-time budget costs. So software money is free money for you. The quality of those funds is always the best. It's always the best quality of those funds. How do you justify spending? By carrying out your budget, you're justifying that spending. Your question about the diforming control group, we can answer, I think there should be reporting very concretely, and we are ready to be active participants in this process. There's no reason we shouldn't be. In this particular one, there is only one sentence that says - continue implementation. They wouldn't give us this loan if they weren't sure we were going to continue to carry out that loan. Here. Here's a curiosity here. We had a budget support agreement with the Russian Federation and the famous 2010, in 2011, the fund programme stopped being implemented. Look, the Russian Federation has given us the last part of the loan since we didn't have a valid program with the Fund. So you said, "Why do they respect the worse?" That's how they wrote it, that's how they realized it. So, the Russian Federation had to stop the budget support programme and cancel the rest of the loan because at that moment we were not meeting the terms of the loan. This tells you that even the countries you thought were not part of international financial architecture respect those same rules. So, the rule of programming is your quality of the budget process, your quality of budget reporting guarantees you how the funds are spent, and your reporting can be strengthened and we can satisfy all these. There won't be any specific items, except in this special one kind that refers to the elements of costs, where so-called. Reimbursement, so, they do, they give you compensation for those costs that you can do again. For example, it's an example of severance. If you have some rationalization program, and you say -- I need 10 billion dinars for severances, you pay up, they give you money, you replace it in the budget so you can continue with the program. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4691	Thank you. Did you say that briefly? You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4692	Only to specify the answer, i.e. the reduction. If I understand correctly, on three key questions, we will only later know what these funds will be spent on. We learned from you, although you support what is contrary to that, that no control group was formed that the governor had announced in 2014, you said that it was not formed, and I really need to hear from you again the news that made me happy, which I concluded from your answer, that you announced that this time we would get the final bill. Does this mean that we can practically consider it a promise to get the government's final labour account this time?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4693	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4694	Just to confirm. So, to specify the first sentence -- we know what they can spend on, we said potential interest payments, payment of the principal's dues, and early repayments of all the loans that are the legitimate loans of this state with a sovereign guarantee. That's potential. What will really be spent on will depend on the specific conditions, the way the spending is exclusively subject to our very strict, where we get the highest marks in the world, the spending of funds on a consolidated vault account. No one from there can pay a dollar or a dollar without a warrant. Now, around that group, we didn't have a formal obligation, but I accept myself to form it and do an ex post full analysis, because the documentation exists. As far as the final bill is concerned, we'll make sure you get it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4695	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stević, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure, and otherwise you are the only one who has been declared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4696	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure 107 and 106. For the sake of truth, you didn't chair, your fellow vice president chaired. The previous speaker violated the dignity of the National Assembly. It is indeed inadmissible and offensive that when the minister is away, you speak offensive words about him. Also, at the very least it is incorrect to dispute the contribution and role of the SPS whose head is Ivica Dacic, when it comes to KIM. With it, we have made a huge contribution to the protection of national and national interests in protecting Serbs in the KIM area. I think it's extremely incorrect for our colleagues to speak in such a way. Our contribution is also to our foreign minister and the president of our party that when it comes to Cosmet, we have always led national and state policies and always taken care of the protection of Serbian national interests. Let me remind you of one detail. Those who intercede warmly and caringly for the KiM and today around the Fund, when they talk about it, that they care very much about KIM, that in 2011, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia annulled the remuneration regulation for the beneficiaries of the budget, that we...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4697	Ambassador, you've entered the line now. So you think members of 106 and 107 are injured. I don't justify myself. So, that 106th and 107th are injured because something that does not stand for the foreign minister, but as I said this morning, the role of the president is not to measure whether something has been spoken truthfully or not. There are parliamentary groups, presidents, authorized parliamentary groups to respond if they think so, and it is up to me to make it possible for all parties. If you want, we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Tević Bell, from the city: No need. I thank you. The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4698	Article 103. By asking, President, that we establish one rule that is in line with the Rules of Procedure in full, which is that in order to protect in a particular case Members of Parliament's superior position, we are no longer just talking about the same injury of a member, because we can always call on a certain member, but we cannot call on the same injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4699	Okay. What did I hurt Article 103 in?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4700	I want to tell you that you did not hurt yourself, but that the injured Rules of Procedure were, in that sense, that the colleague who had previously spoken your predecessor had warned several times about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not only because of the insult of the Minister, but also because of the fact that he was jumping out of the agenda, which means the application of Article 109, which means that the MP who repeats the injury is being warned. We have not received such a response from either of you or your predecessors and such a reaction to the behaviour of the MPs who flagrantly insults the Rules of Procedure. In a particular case, it is not the first time, but for who knows which time not to react in the way that the Rules of Procedure foresees. That's why I said that if we already have the same arches, then these same arches have to be conducted, so that there won't be any discriminatory MPs, and in a particular case the ministers here, because they have the right to answer, have the right to answer the questions that are being asked to them, and ultimately to the insults that they survive or experience. If we had empathy in the SPS for someone who's acting this way, it's absolutely pointless and there's no point in further commenting. I only ask that in the future, when such manifestations of the conduct of the MPs occur, you react according to the Rules of Procedure without reacting to the same injury of the members, only to an injury that may be a manifestation other than an insult. pop out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4701	Thank you. That's one bigger topic. Maybe for the board of directors. These are suggestions and suggestions to discuss, because that's the board they're on... (Neđa Jovanovic, from the scene: I only pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and did not ask to make a statement. )......................................................................................................... Mostly the heads of the parliamentary groups, and I'm asking you to discuss it. So the president's role is not to sanction something that's said to the minister's burden. The role is for the president and authorised representatives of parliamentary groups to defend ministers from their parties and to react as strongly as the opposition reacts to us, when it comes to and when the presidents of their parties are mentioned. I would then a little wake-up and the ruling majority to be as tough as the opposition and to defend your views and your party presidents and ministers, because the role is not the president to participate in the debate. Zoran Krasic throws. You have a president and you can do the same, Krasic, to act and defend your president. We all have presidents. If no one answers, should I switch to the list, give up? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Zvonimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4702	Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, encouraged by a mid-day debate, as a man with the KIM, I will start to discuss the draft legislation on the validation of the Fund for the Western Balkans. Also, as a man with kim, I don't think kim is mine anymore, but yours, it's ours. I'm sorry, I have to tell you, it's easy to talk about Cosmet from Belgrade, from warm chairs, to see what's been built on KIM, built for the past 17 years. I understand the concerns and concerns about KIM which often serve to get some political points, but I also think that there is not enough concern for individuals for the situation at KIM, you will agree, which is unfortunately still difficult, complex, burdensome, with daily pressures, both on the Serbian people in the KIM area and on our entire state apparatus, on the Government, on the Assembly, on all state authorities. I must conclude that in the debate I have never heard a constructive and correct proposal to solve the overall situation at KIM. Unfortunately, it is not resolved, nor can it be solved today. Fortunately, it would be good luck for this home, and for this country, and especially for the people of KIM, if we could have a constructive discussion to solve this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must not forget, nor act like that, if we were on KIM ourselves, we'd probably solve it more efficiently and much faster. There is an Albanian side that is supported by a good part of EU countries and major forces wants to create or create an independent Kosovo. I have been reviewing documents since 1999, since the Kumanovo Agreement, resolution, and so on: the KIM 2003 KIM Declaration, the KIM 2004 Resolution, and the State Negotiation Team's format for the future KIM status since 2006, the Resolution on the need for a fair solution to the AP KIM issue, in order not to read all, in the end, the agreement reached in dialogue with Pristina with the EU-mediated EU since 2011, a political platform for talks with representatives of temporary self-government institutions in Pristina in 2013, a resolution on the basic principles for political talks with the provisional institutions of the KIM self-government since 2013. What do I mean by this? We were all involved in dealing with KIM issues in some way, either through executive or through legislative authority. So, back in two, three decades, we can divide the fight around KIM into three phases or three phases. The first period since 1999, when KiM was at war, it was killed and we were bombed afterwards. Of course, the most difficult thing for those who gave their lives and lost their loved ones and loved ones. A Kumanski Agreement has been adopted and Security Council Resolution 1244 has been adopted, which has been called the issuing documents for a long time, and lately, back in the few years, we are attached to these documents as a drunk plate. The second period after 1999 characterizes calling democracy. Then we are called for lack of democracy and that the KiM problem will be solved when it is reportedly defeated by democracy. It's been 17 years, the results are gone, and we're where we are. The third phase or third period implies a wise, insightful, pragmatic and rational policy, which means that dialogue and conversation have no alternative. Of course, the best judgment on all policies, when it comes to KIM, is people and will give people. I would like to remind you that she won the KIM SPS parliamentary elections for the Council of the Republic of Serbia in 2008. The government, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and Vice President Ivica Dacic, is leading such a responsible policy and will certainly protect the national and state interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the interests of Serbs in KIM. Dear People's MPs, the proposal for a bill to confirm the Fund for the Western Balkans was formulated by the Visegrad Fund of the Visegrad Group. The Fund is an organisation aimed at promoting co-operation primarily in culture, science, research, education and youth exchange, as well as promoting sustainable development. Serbia has submitted a declaration stating that KIM territory is treated as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with Resolution 1244, i.e. under international administration, and that the temporary institutions of the KIM self-government cannot act outside the framework of the authority of certain Security Council Resolutions and the constitutional framework for the temporary self-government of KIM. For the sake of the public, more precisely defined in Article 3, when signing the Agreement establishing the Western Balkans Fund with the Statute of the Western Balkan Fund, the Republic of Serbia submitted its deposit, the declaration of the following content. I ask the chairman not to count this time at the time of the parliamentary group. I quote: "Because the territory of KIM in the Republic of Serbia and based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 since 1999 is under international administration, signing, expressing consent to the security of the Republic of Serbia and/or the government of Kosovo to an Agreement establishing the Western Balkans Fund cannot be interpreted as a recognition of Kosovo's independence, nor does this form a contractual relationship between the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo within the meaning of the Vienna Convention on Contract Law of 1969, which regulates the matter of completion and enforcement of interstate contracts. The completion and enforcement of the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans does not in any way prejudge the issue of Kosovo's status, as well as the competence and authority of the UN and KFOR Special Representative, in accordance with Resolution 1244 and the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo, UNMIK Regulation 201/9 since 15 May 2001. No action taken by the Kosovo government, or by the interim institution of self-government in Kosovo, at the conclusion and implementation of this agreement, can be considered valid if it exceeds the frameworks of the authority of the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo or incurs powers and duties reserved for the UN special representative, as set out in the Security Council Resolution and the constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo. “ The Fund’s intention and the development of close co-operation and strengthening their ties and integration into the EU, joint representations in third countries. An agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans cannot be interpreted as recognising Kosovo's independence, nor a contractual relationship is formed between Serbia and Kosovo. It also does not prejudge Kosovo's status issue in any way. Citing Kosovo does not affect the status position and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 and the International Court of Justice's opinion on Kosovo's declaration of independence. That stance was clearly taken by Serbia by submitting a declaration stating it. It's familiar to all sides. When it comes to a set of economic laws, the first draft law refers to the confirmation of the loan agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for budgetary support signed on 4 October 2016. The contract is intended to finance the budget deficit and reduce borrowing costs, and above all to pay off the commitments made on the basis of existing dollar loans. It should be noted that while the 2016 budget is being adopted, debt of up to two billion dollars is envisaged, so this loan cannot be seen as a new debt. In the short-term perspective, funds will be used to support the budget financially, but in the medium term, they will support the country's economic recovery and the continuation of the reforms launched. Many of the objectives in the economy that have been set have been met, inflation has been reduced, budget deficit has been reduced, and if we take into account the fact that earlier borrowings have taken place under very unfavourable conditions, then we will agree that, conditionally speaking, cheap funds are provided for in this loan, which are refinanced by expensive debts, is very good for our country. Also, the funds provided for by the credit and interest payment budget based on earlier borrowings will now actually be released and will be able to invest in capital investments, economic development, social policy or any other incentive that the government considers to be a priority. The interest on this loan is only $2.25 per cent a year. The maturity of the loan is 10 years, plus five years of grace period and with five tranches of about 200 million dollars in intervals of at least six months. What makes this loan favourable, apart from low interest and payment conditions, is certainly also the possibility that Serbia pays interest only on the amount it has realised, or withdrawn, and not on the entire amount of the loan contracted. When it comes to the draft law on the confirmation of the 2014 loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, it is another loan agreement envisioned by the 2016 budget. It is a loan from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe of eightm euros for the recovery project due to the earthquake in the Kingdom. The project came from the need to resolve a housing issue for housing owners whose apartments were damaged in the earthquake, which hit Kraljevo in November 2010. The adoption of this agreement will permanently resolve the housing issue for 366 families. The terms of the loan are very favourable, given the fact that the Republic of Serbia as a borrower has the possibility to define between fixed or variable interest rates when withdrawing the tranche. There is also the possibility of selecting loans in the semi-annual or annual wars, access fees and fees on unrestricted funds are not paid, while the repayment period is 15 to 20 years, with a grace period of 5 years. It is important to note that new buildings will be built in accordance with the principles of modern design and energy efficiency, which is important in accordance with new seismic regulations. The end-users will get about the same size of the apartment, and owners of old apartments whose size is below the minimum will be able to buy or rent an additional area. The total value of the works under the project was estimated at 14.2m euros, one of which is financed from the loan we are talking about today, and the rest will be financed by the City of Kraljevo, as well as the investment framework for the Western Balkans. This project is very important for the City of Kraljevo, because it will affect the overall improvement of the living conditions of the people of the Kings whose dwellings were damaged in the earthquake. Proposal for a law confirming the financial agreement "Apeks" loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the NBS. So far, the European Investment Bank has approved Serbia's dedicated funds for small and medium-sized enterprises, priority projects, entrepreneurs and local self-government totalling a billion and 65m euros. The first four loans of 565m euros were fully used through the realisation of 630 loans based on which 6920 jobs were planned. The European Investment Bank granted the Republic of Serbia a new fifth Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and other 500m-euro priorities. From the first tranche of 150m euros, 184 loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs and local self-government amounting to 148.4m euros were granted by the end of September. In order to develop entrepreneurship and competitiveness last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategy to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises for the period 2015-2020 with an action plan to achieve a strategic vision based on entrepreneurship initiative and knowledge and innovation. This strategy aims to improve the business environment, reduce tax obligations, facilitate access to funding sources, develop human resources, strengthen the sustainability of the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and, most importantly, encourage the entrepreneurial spirit, female entrepreneurship, youth and social entrepreneurship. The financial agreement on the second tranche of this loan is the subject of today's debate. It closed on June 13th of this year. is intended for small and medium-sized enterprises and mid-market capitalisation enterprises, as well as priority projects. The possibility of a choice between a fixed and variable interest rate when withdrawing a tranche that allows for more than 10m euros to be requested to convert the interest rate, while the repayment period is 12 and 15 years, respectively, with four and five years of grace periods. Access fees and fees shall not be paid to undrawn assets. What is important to point out is the fact that half of this loan, up to 75m euros, can be used to finance projects, jobs for young Western Balkans, which means that small and medium-sized enterprises will receive very favourable loans if they opted for a youth employment project that implies a lower interest and a longer period of payments up to 15 years with a grace period of up to five years. This is very important for our country, given the fact that regardless of the trend in reduced unemployment rates in Serbia, it is still official data that unemployment is the highest in young people between the ages of 20 and 29. In the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4703	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4704	Thank you. Dear ministers, the NS parliamentary group will support all proposals for international agreements that are on the agenda today. As far as the first proposed agreement with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund is concerned, the loan is extremely favourable because it finds billions of US dollars per fixed interest of 2.25% on an annual level without any conditions difficult to find elsewhere. I think it's very important to say. As well as the fact that this loan does not increase public debt, and in just one sentence, I would like to say that only from 2008 to 2012, we were in debt at an interest rate of 6-8% per capita of 1150 euros. As for the Agreement with the European Investment Bank, I think it is very important in this year to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. For Serbia's citizens, I would like to say that Slovakia has worked in a similar model. Slovakia today as a centrally stable European state has an economic development based on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and that the country's economic renaissance just makes the development of these micro-enterprises up to nine, ten employees. I think we should set ourselves the goals that today's European countries have used. It is very important for this loan that an initiative called – jobs for young Western Balkans, which the European Investment Bank wants to support small and medium-sized enterprises that open up young people above all. As for the Western Balkans Fund, I would like to make three arguments at this time, which is why the NS parliamentary group will support this proposal, although it was the subject of controversy in today's debate. The first argument for us is very important that every sentence, in every sentence, in every paragraph, accounts have been taken, or measures are taken to avoid any misreading. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has also decided that this Fund proposal is not contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, and what is personal to me, and for my colleagues, one of the biggest arguments is the fact that Serbia has not entered into the establishment of this fund, other Western Balkan countries that have recognised Kosovo's independence and the formation of this fund have entered the republic of Kosovo. This is how Serbia prevented it and, I think, is very important, Minister Dacicu, an argument that should be said in this debate. So, by entering Serbia into the establishment of the Western Balkans Development Fund, there is no possibility of writing the Republic of Kosovo. Also, many colleagues today have raised criticism at the expense of the establishment of this fund, and we have not heard at all constructive solutions or any alternative. That is why I believe that these agreements should be supported and that they are very important for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4705	Thank you. Sasa Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4706	Thank you. We have a lot of agenda points, a few loans, a fund agreement, and it's really inappropriate to have all of this in one discussion, we've pointed out, and it's against the Rules of Procedure, but it's obvious that the desire to shorten the discussion was much more important. I'll start with a loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund to support the budget. It's about billions of dollars in support. As far as we know, two years ago, in 2014, the state of Serbia already took one billion-dollar loan from the fund, with no interest rate. At that time, however, in 2014, the dollar rate relative to the euro and the dinar was much lower. At that time, there were 83 dinars, today 113 dinars, which means, if we take that billion dollar loan that was taken in 2014 to support the budget, its principal in dinars has grown by 29 billion dinars, and if we look at the euro, using the official exchange rate of the euro to the dollar, it amounts to about 200m euros. Since the state of Serbia and all its finances, unfortunately, is fully tied to the euro, in every way possible, we are the euro's dominant currency that we are counting, so practically by this borrowing then, although the interest rate is very low, as is said, much smaller than on the market, over 4% is mentioned on the market, and we get this at 2.25%, because of this currency risk, i.e. the growth of the dollar value relative to the euro and the dinar, of course, we have a big difference, so the question for the finance minister – are we going to come to a similar situation with this billion dollars that we take? I repeat, when we convert into dinars, that billion dollars from 2014 is higher by 29 billion dinars today, only the principal, since we have that deadline that doesn't return the principal, but only the interest is paid. The comparisons work, for Serbian citizens, to mention that pensioners were taken in 2015 by about 20 billion dinars according to what the Fiscal Council told us, so that is far less than these 29 billion. The other thing is the loan we get from the fund. There's also a part that speaks about the stakes of state property. That's something we're talking about. This is really a very unusual thing in a contract like this, to talk about a lender being able to set up a stock. I understand the minister's explanation that it's highly unlikely. The question – why, if it is unlikely, is such a provision at all, if there is confidence that there will be no bankruptcy of the Serbian state? I hope so, too. Why is this provision even standing here and it is not specified at all which property it is and unfortunately, what the minister said is not exactly true, so can the RS Assembly, as it also belongs to the property. The second thing is, the minister himself said in his statement that we have a surplus of the republican budget of about 31 billion dinars, concluded with August of this year, it was published on the Ministry of Finance site, and that by the end of the year we are expected to have the deficit half planned, or, in fact, it was planned to be about 158 billion dinars, or 160 as the minister said, half of it is 80 billion, which means that by the end of the year we should actually have a deficit, if I count well, of those 80 billion, which is half of 160 plus this 31, it's about 111 billion dinars, which means the loan we're taking from a billion dollars, which is about 113 billion dinars. So the question – are we really taking this loan to pay back some old debts, what would we support and those debts in dollars that we took at more unfavourable interest rates, not debts in euros? However, if we look at these two things, it turns out that in fact this loan will benefit us from covering that deficit we expect. The minister mentioned that it was probably a Petrochemy, if I understood RTB Bora well, I guess also "Gelezzari Smederevo", since the property was sold, the company with large debts remained, and the minister said we wanted to be responsible and to repay those debts and not leave the creditors without paying their debts. I suppose by a similar model to "Er Serbia", when the law was passed in this assembly, which covers losses. In fact, this shows the mechanism of this hidden borrowing of the state, where not taking care of public enterprises and their good governance, social enterprises also create large debts, which eventually move on to the burden of the budget and the state of Serbia must be much more in debt. These are serious questions because, I repeat, if we're taking this billion-dollar loan to pay back some senior loans in dollars, I repeat, in dollars, then this would make sense, or a smaller interest rate really says that we're going to go better because we're going to swap one debt with the other. However, if this billion-dollar loan is used to cover the loss of public enterprises in the sense that I spoke about, or is used to repay some old euro loans, we are exposed to currency risk, which I tried to explain on the case of borrowing from 2014. I think that, and that's what we've suggested in the amendments, one very transparent spending of new money should be present, so that, on a website like the Ministry of Finance, we can publish for every dollar of this debt exactly what it's spent on, so that we can appreciate this borrowing we're taking. Not only that, but I also think that the bill itself should contain exactly how it intends to spend this billion dollars, so that MPs, not because we believe in conspiracies, but in order to do their jobs safely, we can give support to what the minister is doing. Also, one little review of the bill itself. In point 5, it says - the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, which is to say - the reasons for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 167. The rules of procedure arise from the fact that the withdrawal of funds under the loan agreement is conditional upon the entry into force of the Loan Contract Act. I apologize, Minister, but this is indeed an insult to the intelligence of the MPs. To say that by an emergency procedure we're passing the law so that he can be passed and started to apply is really not right. We have to stop it. There are precise conditions that laws are passed by emergency procedure, which are the reasons for their adoption, and they should be detailed when we pass the law by emergency procedure. I repeat, this is about a billion dollars in debt. As for these other loans, to start with this Apeks loan, the minister said that so far we have taken five or six similar loans, I think it is some amount of 650m euros. Of course it's good to support domestic small and medium-sized enterprises. But the first question would be – and how have we spent these loans so far, or what have they been spent on and what are the effects? So the bill would have to contain some analysis. I'm sure the minister will agree that this kind of responsible approach to spending money is really necessary. So, what we should know is who got that money, how much money was given to which companies, whether that money was returned or not, through which banks it was done, to have a good picture of whether this money had really gone to small and medium-sized enterprises or was used for other purposes, for example, saving some tycoon firms, saving firms that are close to the top of political parties, which in the past has often happened to us as part of the Burazer economy. If any company wants to borrow from taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, pensioners and all other citizens, it gets money so that it can get credit at some favourable interest rates, the minimum that the citizens of Serbia should know is exactly what the companies are concerned about, how much money and that should be made public and, too, how much money has been paid back to the budget, because we understand that this is not a non-refundable loan, but that it is given as a loan to which banks will take the collateral and which, in the end, will be returned, if not, be charged from the collateral. So the question is, what about those 650m euros that have been given so far? The second question, for these loans to support small and medium-sized enterprises, is that we have, in addition to this transparency, which we really need, we have one part that says in this loan that there are some priority projects, some big projects that we can go to, if I've followed well, some 75 million euros here, from a total of 150, so we should know what projects it is and get some report on it. I'm sure this would be useful for the finance minister, since, as far as I know, he's also pushing for a more transparent spending of money for clear bills. So that all together would make us a significant improvement and I don't see why each of these contracts and a list of all those who got that money wouldn't be published. When I spoke to the Minister of Business about this loan, we had a slightly different plan, so I'd like to tell the Minister about it, because it's something we should really think about. That is, when we analyze these loans that we place across banks, we would have to come up with a full analysis of what kind of loans the bank is going to give on this loan and see what interest rates the banks are going to do further, what is their margin, what is the mark and what is it based on. Because in this case, if the state of Serbia bears full responsibility for those 150m euros that will be placed across banks, then it is a space for commercial banks to add some margin to these loans in fact only their cost of processing loans and some small profits. For example, they should not include in those interest rates what is called a country risk, or a country's business risk, so transparency in that part and negotiation with banks should include this part. We had a plan that was a little different, which said that the state of Serbia instead of giving this money to banks would actually use money as a guarantee fund, whereby banks themselves would supply funds and place it to our companies, and the state would guarantee part of those loans. This would lead to a much larger amount of credit that could be placed and banks would participate in the part. The key question for me is the transparency of negotiations with banks and to see if the conditions that will be reached in the negotiations, let's say between the National Bank, which serves here as a mediator, and the commercial banks themselves are good for us, not that taxpayers bear the burden of credit, and that the interest is being taken down by banks. Of course, I'm not against profit, no one, no banks, but he's got to be reasonable somewhere and consistent with the risk they're taking in this business, because in every job, that risk has to correspond to what someone can expect from any job. Then, as far as the King's apartments are to be built, about eightm euros, and this prison in Kragujevac, the issue is the very project we need to finance. For example, the information we received about the project in the King says it's some 366 apartments, but it doesn't say what the surface area of these apartments is. You'll admit, if we build 30 square-square apartments for this money on average or we build 50 square-square apartments on average, there's a huge difference. In the past, experience teaches us that corruption always participates in these deals. When such great things are not defined, it raises serious suspicions that there is a space for corruption. Similar to building a prison in Kragujevac, these are some things we should know, much more detailed information about the project. The last time we talked about it, the minister agreed that it was really necessary in all the projects the state of Serbia is doing, including in this. I hope we finally get to this, when we get the law that we need to adopt, that it will contain all the information and that it will have this detailed project the way we think and how the state actually thinks it should be. The way we got it, I'm sure the minister will agree, there's not enough information in him. Lastly, as far as this Fund for the Western Balkans is concerned. I will read to you, because it is very important, I am sure that the foreign minister also agrees with this, that we respect the Constitution and the laws of this country, and when we propose some laws, that they must comply with the Constitution and with the law of this country, whether we think regional co-operation is good, that we should participate and, of course, agree, we should be everywhere that decides anything about Serbia, wherever it talks about Kosovo in any way and of course we should participate. However, we should respect our country's laws, and one of them is the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, in Article 2 defines the concept of an international contract. He says -- an international contract is a contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia in writing with one or more states or with one or more international organisations, regulated by international law, regardless of whether it is contained in one or more interrelated instruments and independent of their name. This contract that we need to ratify is an international contract, which is also said in the submission itself, and the National Assembly could not ratify, or confirm anything other than an international contract. If the Law of Conclusion tells us that this is concluded only with one or more states or international organisations, then it turns out that Kosovo with a star is either a state or an international organisation, and as far as I know, the position of the government is that it is neither, nor the other. Then I think this law would have to be withdrawn, so first of all, to amend the law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts before we can pass this law, because it will rightly be called upon that we are practically in accordance with our own law to say that Kosovo is a star or an international organisation, and as far as I know, the government's position is that it is neither, nor anything else. So we really need to take care of these things, these are very serious things, that when we make laws, they are in accordance with other laws that we have and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4707	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4708	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to all the debaters and I think my colleague is an economist, as much as my colleague is a farmer, it's just a question of who plays for bigger money. So, I'd shove everything into bankruptcy. (Sasa Radulovic, from the post: Would you allow this? I'd like my colleague to calm down a little, or I'll call my colleague, Rancic, to give him first aid. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Is this the agenda point? A colleague, where's Rancic? He's not here. There's never a doctor when you need one. If I can keep going. I would like us in this country to take out everything that this group has "never been enough", produced.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4709	MP, they say you're not part of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4710	I don't know what we'd...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4711	Please continue, please try.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4712	I'm trying to continue, however, with such strong applause, such strong screams, I don't know what that is. I would understand my colleague that he's sweating somewhere, that the sweaty water is getting drunk, that he's going to pay back these loans, but let's start in a row. I don't believe that, I still believe that he would push everything into bankruptcy, not repay the loans, it shouldn't be returned. He wouldn't be taking loans with a lower interest rate, returning loans with a higher interest, because he's used to taking loans with a higher interest, not a lower interest, and then asking himself, "Who's built in, not what he's done for this country?" Thank you for waving at me because you're leaving the O.R., but let's start in a row. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You are not ashamed. Some say you look like a G17, to me you look like an IQ-17. Anyway, let's go back to all the debt left, well, I wasn't really a minister in Dacic's government. Here we have three authorities, the fourth one was in the G17 Plus Government, that deputy for the education they chased with the poles because of some rank list. I've never been in power, they have. If someone owed the land, I didn't. If I was in power, we'd be arguing today because we're gonna borrow money. I believe that the government of Alexander Vukic was then in power, from 2000 to 2010, so that we wouldn't be discussing now taking from, I don't know, the World Bank, Abu Dhabi, to take loans but to give them loans. We would not argue on which interest we are in debt, but on which interest we borrow money. Here, I'll try to explain, because you're always masking something, don't try it on me, because we're in the country a little healthier, clean air, nature gives us a chance to remember very well, to refresh our memory. At the end of 2012, the debt was 17.6 billion. So if it was something smaller, you left a two-billion deficit, 17.6 below it wasn't. But you forgot something, that we from the village remember well, so we remember, and colleagues with Maldives it's funny, but we remember, not only his departures to Maldives, lobster bites, yacht rides, etc., charter flights, we also remember donor support that was 4.1 billion grants. So you add that to the 17.6. Well, you have the Paris Club and the London Club, which Mr. Dacic knows, 4.7 billion, because two-thirds of the previous debt has been forgiven. So this is filled and we have income from privatisation, 2,500 companies for 2.7 billion, but you have other revenues that didn't go through the Privatisation Agency, which was four billion, NIS "Mobtel", etc. Total revenues from privatisation were 6.7 billion. When I add everything together and I add you that billion from Vojvodina Development Bank to fill these budgets before the summer, I get a figure of 34.1 billion euros. Debt was not 17.6 at the end of 2012 but was 34.1. When we take that aside from what you owe the country, that you've spent donor support, the privatisation revenue, that you've spent what you've spent from Vojvodina Development Bank, therefore, a total of 34.1 billion. In the period until 2010, Global, I don't have glasses so I can't read, says American, you love Americans, and I don't hate them, but I don't like them, but you like to call them, so come on, they say that in 10 years from 2001 to 2010, 40 billion euros from this country, or 51 billion dollars. That's what the Americans say, it stays with me, since you're always calling on their sources, I'm the one who's left to believe it. It's not that you spent it all, it's not what you brought out, it's not what you stole, it's the problem that you didn't do anything. You've made the infrastructure 112 kilometers in 12 years, I think, 9.7 kilometers a year. You've left the economy settled, there's nothing that hasn't been sold and stolen, we don't know where it ended. There's no source of debt that should serve that debt. That's worse. Where did you spend the money? Obviously, you just took it out. This second part of the debt is the service of your debt, 24.15 increased by less than 7 billion, but with interest in 2008, 117 million euros, and the interest we pay on your debts is one billion. Four years per billion to service your debts was 4.4 billion. Then you ask where the money went. In one year we've made infrastructure than you've done in 12 years. Which is why I left the DOS coalition and left in 2003 when I saw who was running the government, I said that an anthem should be put to be – God save and cancel the support of such a government and were early elections. You didn't export to repay your debt when the state was in debt, the people were writing a note. The state should protect its people and the people should protect the state. It's mutual protection. You've never asked the people if you'd put them in charge, you'd send them text messages. When you give someone credit, or when you're a jury, and the people are a jury, you have to ask us if they're going to be your jury and what they're going to buy for it. You're looking to see if he's going to buy a tractor, then later on, to serve that debt, you didn't care, it was important to be in charge. Let me say one more thing, in your time, while you're so well in charge of 31 billion, 300,000 people are out of a job in four years. In Belgrade, 230,000 real-sector workers fell to 23,000. So there's no source to repay the debt, and worse still, the internal debts remained external, because you sold all of our interest, or all of our banks, to foreign banks, which is why every internal debt becomes foreign and they turn it into foreign currency and they bring it out. Today, I'm listening to these wise men and I'm watching those wise faces hand over to us, while we're trying to get this country out of the mud, and in 2012, if I hadn't come here, if I hadn't walked into that bar, I wouldn't have known how deep it was. Unfortunately, I know how deep she is now. I know we need to get better. I know we have to serve our debts. We know we have to lift production and if only half of those 34 billion were released through agriculture and half lost or stolen, today the debt would be less by 17 billion. You didn't do it, your product was long. You've been living off the man in charge, not the man in charge, and the time has come, and return as you longed for. Now someone else needs to live on the earned and the earned detachment, to return what was in charge at the time the money was out. I think we need to be committed to the development of the economy, that we need to spend time in work and effort, not on the couch. There's a saying: You can't climb a ladder to success with your hands in your pockets. You tried that, that's why you fell. We will try to achieve success not over the couch like you, not over Maldives, but across the rails and plows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4713	Thank you. The last one to be authorized is Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4714	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we have had opportunities from authorised representatives of all parties to hear in detail what the draft laws, agreements, or laws that ratify international agreements, on the agenda and what has to be said that when we divide the areas by which they are essentially covered, this is the part that relates to the direct support of the budget for repaying expensive loans and replacing cheaper ones, and this is very well explained by Mr Vujovic. We have that concrete part, which is the financing of projects, which I think is of great importance, and today has not been so much attention, but has been spoken more politically because it was the essence of the whole story to attack the government and the ruling coalition, that it is irrevocably in debt, which, of course, is not true, because my previous speaker explained very well that we would not be talking about the loan today that some politicians were responsible by 2012, we would already be talking about us giving other loans. However, this is not the case in Serbia. It's obvious that every government inherits the past, and it has to deal with that past. The past has not been easy until 2012 and this is precisely what we are suggesting today. One of the proposals, and I think one of the most important proposals that has been talked about, and my colleagues from the Kingdom will speak very well and in detail about it, is a practical project that helps the Bank of the Council of Europe in terms of the project - urban regeneration of building 366 apartments for almost 1,000 people who are practically endangered social categories as a result of earthquakes in the King. And this is the project that was first practically brought to life during the government of Mr Dacic, when practically one amendment to our MP was put into Serbia's budget to start a project like this that would give practically one new person and the King and give a new life to these people who lived the googogue, although those who used state money by 2012, when they reconstructed the buildings after the earthquake. And that's the fundamental difference between us and them who were before and will talk about it to my colleagues. What is important is that the loan will be exclusively for project financing given in two tranches of eightm euros, with the payment period of 15 to 20 years with a grace period of five years. It should be said that the availability of these finances is practically up to 2019, which shows that you cannot withdraw any funds unless you are seriously implementing projects and, therefore, it is essential that we are responsible people with whom all international institutions love to work, because we understand that there are regulations and procedures on which you can withdraw certain transactions. So, the point is that we're in charge just because we're in debt doesn't stand. Another project that is very important, which will also finance the Bank of the Council of Europe, is building prison facilities in Kragujevac for over 400 prisoners who have practically been punished for over five years and there will be one facility of 10,800 square meters on three floors, which will significantly improve the level at which prisoners in Serbia will maintain their sentence. The credit date is also 20 years and interest rates and the first and second credits are extremely favourable. That's why it should be said that these are the support in this project financing. The third credit, which was the biggest source of attention, when we talk about entrepreneurship, is a very interesting loan that shows essentially that it did not start with the government of Mr. Vukic, but is a continuation of the European Investment Bank's co-operation with Serbia, and through NBS and commercial banks. But it should be said that no credit line could be withdrawn until one platform was created in which the European Investment Bank, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, will create a plan, a programme and the purpose of these loans. The most important thing to say is that the choice of banks is neither done by the Ministry nor by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but by the Investment Bank itself. So, it will take the credibility of each bank, i.e. the credit and say – each one of these banks is capable or not capable, will not be able to co-operate on this project. I just wanted to say something. We're talking about the third abscess in a row here. The first application for financing the contract was on 11 May 2009, when 250m euros were withdrawn for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The second annex of 16 May 2011, then on 16 May, 50 million were withdrawn first, and then with another tranche another 100 million. In 2012, on January 23rd, therefore, there has been no practical change in Serbia's political system, in 2012, 100m euros were withdrawn, so what is important is that in 2013, according to a specific new strategy and reports by the European Investment Bank, it was only then allowed to withdraw another 150m euros. Practically, this is the last tranche under which the European Investment Bank withdraws these funds under the programme. The National Bank is an agent here. Small and medium-sized enterprises report with their business plans to business banks, compete for these specific funds, and that is why this loan is very important, to open up investment opportunities for private sector, to create new jobs, which is why we think that this credit line and this loan will practically bring much new to Serbia, a new momentum, in addition to what the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia and the Development Agency of Serbia, which is called "The Year of Entrepreneurship". These next two loans, i.e. agreements we talked about, which are very important, such as the World Bank, talk about public administration and also one project relating to modernisation and optimisation, and it is expressed at 69m euros. It is important to say that a strategy was adopted under which public administration reform was carried out in 2014, but the Action Plan for the implementation of this strategy was adopted and without it, normally, no financial organisation could approve such funds. The advantage is that we have practically 17 years to pay off these loans and it is five years to the first grace period, when we have no obligation to pay off these wars and the next 12 practically falls to pay off. The aim is to improve the efficiency of employment and what Mr. Minister said, concerns the more efficient work of the administration, to make severance payments for workers who want to leave the public administration, for education and more efficient work of the Public Procurement Authority. What is important to say is that the DRI will be practically responsible for the revision of the entire loan process, meaning that it will have a certain control system. Finally, we come to an interesting agreement, which many like, when we talk about representatives of political parties, many do not like. But what needs to be said and explained to Serbian citizens today that we are now practically reducing the rate of interest that we are obliged to repay. If we say that the interest from past loans alone was from a billion euros to 1.3 billion euros a year, then recalculate from 2008 until today how much money has practically gone into debt. And when you're in debt as a state at an interest rate of 7.25%, 8%, 10%, and when you're in debt of 2%, it's quite logical that at the moment you're withdrawing the tranche when you have to pay off the loan war, then you withdraw and close practically with a new loan that has much less interest rates. It's just that we're actually replacing expensive loans with cheaper ones. And as long as we don't get rid of paying such expensive loans, we have to act extremely efficiently and rationally, budgetally we have to spend as much as we earn. This was not the case until 2012 and therefore always resorted to securities emissions from values, increasing the euro rate. It should be said that the 2008 euro course was 78 dinars, that in 2012, it reached 118 dinars, by the end of 2020 even at 120 dinars for one euro. So these are real facts that no one can escape from. What today is an attempt to politicise, practically, financial laws that are part of the agenda, is, in practice, an agreement relating to the formation of a Fund for the Western Balkans. And what is needed, and obviously none of those who attacked this topic have read Article 3 and Article 3 well says that Serbia, in practice, asked to adopt an integral statement, means Serbia, as an integral part of the Declaration and it reads, on purpose because obviously those who attacked this did not want to say at all that Serbia was in their contractual obligation, and also the obligation of the signatories countries, incorporated the following text: "Because Kosovo's territory and Metohija is an integral part of the Republic, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244, it is under the international administration of signing and expressing consent to the commitment of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Kosovo, with the star, to an agreement on the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund cannot be interpreted as recognising independence of Kosovo, nor is it between the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo, with the star, forms a contractual relationship within the meaning of the rules of the Vienna Convention and the contract law of the International Treaty which has been implemented in force in the International Treaty." This fundamentally and secondly and thirdly confirms exactly what the foreign minister and finance minister were talking about, that this, practically, agreement relating to the establishment of the Western Balkans Fund does not have a political dimension in the signing of member states, but only those signatories representing representatives of certain institutions that would contribute in this financial sense, which is when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija with the star refer to UNMIK. You know that they are always intermediaries in the process, especially when it comes to the EU, when it comes to Belgrade-Pristina negotiations. So today we are talking about regional co-operation when we talk about international policy as one of the important topics for functioning, not only political life in Serbia, but also economic. That's the point on which we have to be aware. If we do not participate in the work of regional organisations, funds, then we open up a large space for Kosovo and Metohija to be a full member of such organisations where we will not simply have no impact, but we will not have the possibility or mechanisms to place those who want simply that Kosovo with the star does not exist. Therefore, it was also the subject of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it is always the subject of all committees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. only those who are malicious want to undermine national interests with issues in society, to mull practically this way of presenting Serbia's participation in regional organisations and international agreements in general. It is very important to say that in the voting day, this whole set of laws relating to the ratification of the agreement, such as the SNS, we will support and participate actively in the debate, especially when it comes to issues that want to be replaced in terms of certain themes that we have had the opportunity to hear also from authorised exhibitors of some parties who simply did not understand what the Serbian Government is doing, what it wants to achieve all these years, and how there is the reputation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia in general in international institutions. All those who want to hear, if they want to hear, are welcome, indeed, an explanation. They might change their mind. I hope that those who voted in favour of such proposals and in 2009, 2010 and 2011 will also now vote in favour of such agreements. Those who do not have the right to change their view of a united debate in principle, in particular. I hope that in voting day, when it comes to agreements, we will be unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4715	We're moving on to the list. The word has been made by MP Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4716	Madam President, respected gentlemen of ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, listening to today's speeches on politics and on the economy, there have been a lot of demonstrations, so to speak, political panic, but when it comes to the agenda and when these laws are seen as a comprehensive problem, then one of the key issues for which the finance minister is extremely professional and competent, and that is the question – can debt solve the problem that came from borrowing? What Serbia has done in the past, now, two and a half decades, if we start since the 1990s, or if we start even since the 1980s, it will be three decades, or more, because the problem of former Yugoslavia's debt, the Republic of Serbia has now been resolved either by write-off of debts or inflation. In the '90s, we knew what inflation we had. I think it's the biggest fear of Serbian citizens, fear of inflation and fear of growth or a fall in the course of dinars, or foreign currencies. We had a write-off after 2000 when foreign creditors for political reasons wrote off debts, but now in 2016 we are in a position to discuss new billions and 244 million new loans today, so to speak. What experts are saying is that you can borrow yourself, but as long as debt growth does not grow faster than economic growth and inflation growth, and this will probably alarm the best economy and those who are closely monitoring fiscal and monetary policy. If you look at why these debts are taken, these new loans, then you can justify human reasons. Earlier, colleagues said it was for the construction of 366 families, so to humanize some negative phenomena such as the construction of an office for the execution of criminal sanctions, i.e. for the accommodation of prisoners. What we see is that there really are justifiable reasons, because this loan also applies to small and medium-sized enterprises, say that out of these 150m euros, as much as 75m euros can be used for those small and medium-sized enterprises that will develop youth employment programmes. So there are many reasons to support this, to put it this way, some new financial arrangement in the absence of some money that we might be able to provide in the way in which it was considered in the draft law establishing Serbia's Development Bank. I don't know if Minister Vujovic can tell MPs and citizens whether such a development bank is being reconsidered again, although experiences with Vojvodina Development Bank and the Development Fund are negative. So, I think these interest rates and repayment deadlines are favourable. Also transiting, withdrawing loans that are favourable and that is something that is an economic dogma in the face of an economic crisis that the government not only in Serbia, but also in Europe and the world. As for the establishment of a fund for the Western Balkans, I would say that in some exhibitions of respected colleagues and colleagues, I see the will to escape from that term or that society, so to speak to Western countries, we are where we are, the geopolitical reality is so. If we don't join in the way only a multi-city group joined together, that's where the accent was placed on a multi-city group. I'm going to mention the Benelux countries or the Nordic Council, we're simply not going to be as recognizable as people who can be partners in the modern world where both politics and the economy are taking place in this regional way. So, even if this Fund for the Western Balkans is not established, we will be seen as a group of countries that are condemned to say so on economic and political co-operation. This Fund for the Western Balkans is certainly an investment in the future of young people, because it is intended for them to develop young people, improve and exchange projects, science, education, research. So we have no reason to be afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4717	I thank you, the word has Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4718	I think you have asked a very important question – what is the meaning of this borrowing? What is the meaning and long-term logic of public debt management and the full purpose of fiscal consolidation of public debt economic growth? Let me explain in a few sentences what we're doing. First, here in this section relating to structural loans, there is Abu Dhabi credit and this credit for administrative reform, i.e. public sector reform, these are not new loans. It's loans to support the budget, not new loans. Secondly, the most important logic, the most important story in all of this is to correctly understand the figures of what has happened since the beginning of the appointment of this government to this day. This is where all the numbers are bided. Mostly wrong dates and mostly wrong interpretation of silent digits, although the figures themselves are as accurate. I will tell you the figures that I think are relevant, on 27 April 2014, this parliament chose the government headed by Prime Minister Vukic, on 30 April 2014, the debt situation was 20 billion and 600 million euros. At the end of September, the debt situation was 24 billion and 150m euros, three billion and 550m euros, or more. What does that involve? This includes an increase in debt by 1 October when the consolidation programme started, I consider myself responsible for Serbia's consolidation and economic recovery programme and better debt management, we began de facto on 1 October 2014. We couldn't have done it before. Then on September 20th, the prime minister explained the logic of reducing wages and pensions as a first step towards the programme, and on October 1st, we began talks in Washington about it and then it all started. The state of debt on October 1st was 22 billion and 100m euros. Since then, the debt has only increased two billion and 50m euros. Now this fully fits into logic, 1.2 billion deficits, that's the 2015 deficit, and now that we're practically at zero all the rest, about 750-800m euros are exchange rates. Everything else doesn't go through either the text of economy, or mathematics, or sound logic. I repeat, since the start of the programme, the debt has increased 2 billion and 50m euros, of which 1.2 billion, respectively. 3.7% of GDP is the known debt figure, the general government deficit of 2015. Let's round up, this year in the first ten months is practically zero. No 9.5 billion, no waste of money, no increase in debt without an account, even a dollar, every dollar that gets into the mole, that's the consolidation of the Treasury account that's being held at the National Bank. It has to be documented, run in dollars, in euros and in dinars. There is no transaction, not even that of paying 40 or 400 dinars per transaction. When we pay our own payment, we pay it, it's done every day, it's reported daily. If everything in this country were to function as NBS and Treasury in the management of public finances, we would be Sweden. What else do I want to say? You're absolutely right, what's our way out? I'll explain that to you since our public has no patience. Why are we cutting interest rates? There's one formula that says when the debt will stabilize and start falling, debt through GDP? When you have the primary surplus or the balance of the primary balance and you have that the rate of growth of the social product is greater than the paid interest. If we lower this debt price today about 3.5% of GDP, 140 billion about 3.5%, if you drop below 3% and increase social product as we expect to raise to 3% and above, we are on the way to a positive exit from this. It's only a matter of time before we're on dry land. So that's where we turn two of the most important things. We came out of that swamp that was mentioned in this House, on dry land, it's just a matter of moving on. That's where we turned the most important. It's not a belt tightening, it's a belt tightening to get out on solid and healthy ground. That's why we're reducing these interest rates. I don't blame anyone before, the situation was bad, but the result was unsustainable. If we put the interest below 3% and raise growth permanently over 3%, here's our exit from this situation. Therefore, after that, we need structural reforms, for investors to continue to come and work with us, and we are on a safe path to entering Europe and the sustainable growth and development of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4719	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4720	We've been listening to new logic all day, advanced logic, advanced economy, advanced foreign policy. Everything's been advanced. According to this advanced economy and mathematics 24 billion is less than 15, 16, Kosovo is not a state, and with them we sign an international agreement with a star or without a star, you convince us that we are better, and we live in a country where electricity is either luxury or vice. Because only on luxury or vices introduce excises. There's a excise on alcohol, cigarettes and electricity. I don't think that's an advanced logic. Which loans have been returned? Which is the purpose of this loan, that answer we haven't received all morning. There's talk of some big debts, about 8%, let's see if this loan that was once taken on that high interest is returned? Where does this money go? We say this is favourable, it is favourable but nothing special, 2.25% interest plus 0.5% for special services. That's 2.75%. Read the contract. Here's to reading to you myself, quoting... I'll find it later, but trust me. Tell me, what does that pay? Why is that so good? I was Prime Minister at a time when loans were not taken, and this country could live without credit. A single loan was taken for the purchase of the Italian part of Telekom then and you know it, you were involved in it, thank you for the help it was then. So don't explain to us now that everything is going well and that everything is phenomenal, that's not true. Duing business, 47th place, progress 20th, 30th place great. Let me tell you right now 10 seats, 37 seats ahead of us is Macedonia. Something doesn't look like a country that's successful in anything. They don't have a parliament, a government, I don't know how long they've been fighting on the streets, investing in Macedonia not to get into it. There's another research that we're first in, we're the leader in Europe at risk of poverty, and it says very clearly, so when we boast, let's see all the research that's being done in the world. Dacic tells us that we are defending Kosovo, that it will also be defended by this Fund for the Western Balkans. You have confessed to Kosovo. Dot. There's no story here. If you're not in the car this afternoon and go to Pristina and there as first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, drink your coffee. Everything else means that you have recognised Kosovo and that we are no longer engaged in it. And don't defend Serbs anymore, anywhere. Wherever you defend Serbs, the Serbs are gone, neither in Prizren, nor in Uroševec, nor in Knin, nor in Mostar, nor in Vukovar. Where you defended the Serbs, they're gone. So let people handle themselves and of course the help of the state must be and it is not any success and patriotism, it is the obligation of normal people. We have this question of supplies. It says in Article 4 - Special Obligations, paragraph 3 that no external debt has priority over the loan, based on the stock, etc. There's no such thing as normal loans where the government owes any stock story, there never was. This is a totally atypical thing and the answer that you've given that metaphorical stock isn't true. Give us the correct answer to what is given and what is hidden behind this loan. That's what the Serbian public deserves. You're an absolute expert who can give us the right answer to that and then know where we're going and what we're doing next, and if we're doing well, pay back salaries and pensions, cut the electricity, return the money to local self-government, invest in children being treated in hospitals or abroad, without being treated with text messages. It can't be a happy country where children are treated with text messages.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4721	The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4722	I would ask, the chairman, since I was exposed to criticism, he did not defend me against this tone of Mr. Zivkovic, he spoke directly to me, he shouted. So, since you said that when I discussed it, at least I didn't interrupt you and I'll remind you that I started my speech today in a very nice tone, that you threw it to me and that I was reacting at the time. That's not what I'm saying because Mr. Zivkovic mentioned it now. He talked about other things about who was defending Serbs. I wouldn't talk about that time. I wouldn't talk about that time because it won't do us any good. We'd also have to talk about what every party's policy was like. What was Milosevic's party's policy, you all know that. But what was the policy of some other parties, I don't think we've ever talked about it openly. When Milosevic persuaded Karadjordje to accept the peace plan, which the parties were with him who persuaded him to reject and bake oxen with him at the Palace. It seems to me to be Mr. Zivkovic's party at the time. Also, I wouldn't talk about the international community's relationship. You said the Kosovo issue is a democratic issue, that only Milosevic should fall from power and the Kosovo issue will be resolved. Milosevic fell out of power a long time ago. What changed in the way of resolving Kosovo's issue? At least we fought for Kosovo unlike some others. When Kosovo declared independence or the reaction of the parties that were in power at the time, there was no god-knows-what. One party sent its president to Romania just so he wouldn't be in Belgrade that day, and the other party organised a meeting here in Belgrade, so we went to a standstill while the embassies burned down and destroyed the kiosks. I'm sorry, that's not how Kosovo and Metohija are defended. There's no one here who's not guilty. That's why I don't think this is good for anything like this. I apologize to my MPs who have seen threats or raise a ton in my way of exposure. I just can't accept that these parties also had very mild tones on the political scene of Serbia. I'm talking about Mrs. Tepic and the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. As far as I can remember, Mr. Canak was saying he was going to hang people on the terraces. He was in court the other day for a fight. But you are our political opponents. I don't mind talking about it. I just want to remind you of when Pasic was in parliament 100 years ago and when he got into controversy with such MPs, when they threw him and told him – that you were not ashamed of what Gladiston would say, and he replied – well, what kind of English are you, like me, Gladstone? Therefore, please speak of Serbia's final account. When you were only part of the ruling coalition once was the final word, I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about LSV? And I wasn't there. I just want you to hear me say it. I'm not threatening anyone, I'm one of you, don't forget I'm an MP who resigned to be a minister. (Dusan Pavlovic throws. I didn't, but I was elected MP of the people's will. You didn't choose me as an MP. You chose me as a minister. My right is the same as yours, not to mention how many times more people voted for my list than yours, and that's the best answer to all of this you've ever talked about. You may not like me and think what you want, but I don't care, I am working here according to what the Serbian Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted as their policy. So thank you for your criticism. I hope you weren't as scared as I was of Mr. Zivkovic. I deliberately mentioned Mr. Zivkovic so he could report for the replica, so we'll be chasing each other again, but it's nothing new, but it's not the latest. Let's just not talk, grab on to who was the tone here in parliament. I am sorry to interrupt such an academic, fine and cultural debate at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't come to the National Assembly today. I've been here since 1992. Let me tell you, I'm going to stay long, unlike you who, I believe, will never enter again. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. He predicted it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4723	Take it easy, colleague Zivkovic. He just mentioned you. It's okay. Take it easy. First, a colleague of the marines because he first called the League and the president and her as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4724	I thank you for respecting my line this time, given that Nenad Canak and LSV were also mentioned, as the previous minister was mentioned. If the greatest sins of Nenad Chanka are those mentioned by the minister I will not put them in anyone's plane, but Nenad Canak at least did not turn anyone black, nor did anyone lose their lives because of his politics, on the contrary. If it had been wise to propose that Nenad Canka be implemented, the lustration law would have been implemented, and today we would not have a situation where the decision-makers of this country turned black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4725	Just a minute. My colleague Janjušević, on what grounds? (Maria Janjušević, from the city: According to Business, Article 107.) Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4726	According to the Rules of Procedure, I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we are all here to safeguard the dignity of the Assembly, including our guests. I would remind Minister Ivica Dacic that I cannot possibly have 250 MPs present to blame for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4727	My colleague, I beg you, which member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4728	I tried to compare something without reading it. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. If you tell anyone that it's his fault that Serbia is losing Kosovo, it's also a violation of dignity for me. The collective responsibility must not exist. By collective responsibility, you've brought us into this situation. The Devere parliamentary group has never been a member of this National Assembly, and I will remind the minister that in 2013, we camped three days and three nights in the Republic Square, begging not to sign the Brussels Agreement. It wasn't signed by anyone else besides you, I'm looking into your eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4729	My colleague, I don't see where the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated here. You, like all other MPs, have the right to your political position, but I ask you to express your political position in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dacic, would you like a word? National MP Zoran Zivkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4730	You were on the verge of breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't be afraid, Minister. I've spoken as I have spoken for a very long time and no threat has been made. The fact that you've been to your Moscow political boss now, if you're afraid of something, that transfer of fear doesn't need to be transferred to me. You've told a lot of lies. It was not Zoran Djindjic, who then led the DS, who ate no oxes at the Palace, that the service could have determined, convinced no one not to sign any cease-fire agreement, there is no doubt. Kosovo had no courage to declare independence at a time when the Serbian government was led by Zoran Djindjic, and when I led it. At that time, there was a community with Montenegro, then Serbia's debt fell, then 400,000 people were employed more than today, then Serbia was in the right sense a country that was re-recognized from around the world and these are recorded things. What was in the '90s, how you defended and where you defended, I won't repeat it, it's a historical fact, that I don't do it. I completely agree with that, but don't you or anyone else sitting in power today, and everyone allegedly defended Serbs during some period of political action, don't talk about the time that Periklov's time is Serbia's time from the second half of 2000 to the beginning of 2004, and that's a historical fact. Every parameter, here is the witness, as the World Bank expert Minister Vujovic was there, so let him tell us after what was going on and for the minister, just to tell him that I didn't get a response for the stock, and 0.5% for the special stakes is the point of three first loan members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4731	The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4732	When it comes to the heads of Moscow, Washington or others, I was in a meeting with the Secretary of the National Security Council of the Russian Federation, Nikolai Patrusev, a great friend of Serbia. He's not my boss, he's our friend. Who your bosses were when you took Milosevic down, everyone knows that, so when you went to Budapest for money and went to courses to train how to tear down Milosevic. What kind of bosses are you talking about here? Well, when you found Kostunica to be a candidate, because your candidate could never beat Milosevic, and all of them were funded by your Western bosses. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Who, shall I hear? So what's who, so U.S., Great Britain and the rest of them? What do you think I can't say? Well, I can say, here, I'll say. You were kissing the hand of Madlen Albright, or Vuk Draskovic. I don't care where he is now, because he likes to take steps and criticize me too often. I'm just talking about it. Don't tell me about the bosses now. At least my bosses are our friends and at least they vote for us. Now you want us to lose a friend without getting each other. You were saying that when Milosevic loses, Kosovo is a democratic problem. It's a problem of human rights, a lack of democracy. Well, what was it? Then Zoran Djindjic, when he saw that that was not true, wrote a letter, rebelled. I don't want to say that that was the reason and what happened to him. But what I'm saying is that he has come into conflict with some in the international community on Kosovo. You remember well, when it was the last year of his life that you refused both as a party and as a government to go to the American embassy. And not to talk about the others. Well, Labus resigned at the time of Kostunica's government because we didn't hand over to The Hague all those on the list. And now you're talking about some bosses. These are our brothers and our friends. They're not our bosses. My boss is our people and citizens of Serbia. We only work for Serbia. We don't have two chairs, we don't even sit between two chairs. We're sitting in one chair, and that's a Serbian chair. I guess I speak here on behalf of the Serbian Government, and that's what he wrote in his exposé and what the Prime Minister Alexander Vukic thinks. What are you saying now, that we think differently? We're not DS ex-girlfriends. I just don't have the inspiration to attack you, because these guys have all gone to another party and I don't know who else to talk to anymore. When I start attacking someone, I don't know what period of your party I'm thinking about anymore. I'd just like to say to my colleague, or we're not colleagues, but Mrs. Tepic, I don't want to say at all, I want to say that it's very delicate to judge who's blacked out, it's very delicate to give some authority who can assess it. Perhaps according to your criteria, they are all others. I sat with your president 100 times who talked about those you were in the coalition with, with whom you were now back in the coalition on the same list. (Radoslav Milojic, from town: Who? Well, against Tadic. (Radoslav Milojic, from the post: He is not our president, Sutanovac is. Don't confuse me now, I don't know who the president is anymore. Here, more orientation is lost, no one knows whose president is, but anyway, I want to tell you, when I went to Novi Sad, we are going to a meeting on behalf of DS, me and Miki Rakic and Boris Tadic, he says – don't give Pajtic too much to strain around the autonomy of Vojvodina. So that it doesn't turn out that Tadic defends, but that the SPS defends. Canak v., or Tadic v. Canka, Hungarians, are taking their electoral body in Vojvodina. And now you're talking about who turned who into black. I have no intention of howling at all. I just want to tell you that, in the end, it is estimated by people. I can only give you one thing to confess, if it weren't for you, or Canak, this coalition of yours wouldn't have crossed 5%. But that's also your thing, as I welcome that Chanak has begun to slowly enter power, in Novi Sad you have entered power. I don't know, I'm sure with all the attitudes you've represented so far, you'll have a hard time being a part of the government without us dealing with the policies that we have, because we certainly won't be there for that, and I'm also assuming that the SNS that Vojvodina is a republic or that there are other things. Anyway, and that's one positive shift you've had. And speaking of ideas, don't just talk about ideas right now, I've been in politics too long so I can naively believe that the leaders of political parties are all about ideas, and when your heart hurts hard because of some political injustice, you know how best to treat it, and your party certainly knows that in Vojvodina. I look forward to being attacked by Canak and his party, because it only brings us political points. So go ahead and let's hope we never turn black again. I apologize to all of you for raising these Rules of Procedures, I know you'll react because I'm talking about things that aren't on the agenda, but it wasn't on the agenda or what's been said about me, so you have to understand me, and in any case, please the party or the movement enough, to have a little respect for me, because I did suggest your leader as minister. Everyone makes some kind of personnel mistake, here, Radulovic is my biggest human error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4733	First I have to give the Rules of Procedure, let's hear what Stamenkovic has to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4734	Thank you. Of course, as the minister said in Article 106(1), we do not stick to the agenda. Comrade Gojkovic, I've been looking forward to the right to tell you. My colleague Arsic, I find something scary, and I have great confidence in you, that you are braver to warn the minister, somehow, I think he will listen to you, and that is. You will be brave enough to warn him. You've taken control of this, really. I mean, the minister talked long and wide, about everything and everything, and I thought he was going to sing at some point, honest words to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4735	Thank you. I come to him like a sign of "hollow", it looks like a witch, but I'm not, I guess it was a replica and it went all the way in the other direction.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4736	Well, how's he half an hour's replica, and we're just two minutes away? I mean, it's not okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4737	I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4738	Limit him. He was talking, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4739	I'd cut it in two minutes. So, Zoran Zivkovic, then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4740	First, no boss had a movement that changed power in Serbia, a means to change power and to prevent Serbia from continuing to fail was the shift of the then government, and Milosevic was president and he was replaced democratically and he said so himself, a day, two when he needed to remember. Let me remind you, no money, of course, what black money. Come on, arrest me or anyone who got one dollar first, it's forbidden either then or now, a dollar, a dollar, whatever you want. That's two things. The third thing, to remind you, Madeline Albright, the State Department, the United States convinced us to boycott the election in 2000, because they said we couldn't catch Milosevic again in the theft, and that he would steal us again in the election. And they convinced Milo Djukanovic not to go to that election, they convinced us. We went to that election. So let's stick to the facts, that as a foreign minister you should know. Finally, the government's relationship at the time that Zoran Djindjic led and we his co-workers towards Kosovo was quite clear. Of course, it wasn't a conflict, it was one determined note to say -- it can't be pushed under the carpet by Kosovo and what happened. And it happened, not when Zoran ran that government, not even me, but a little later, when those who defended the Serbs came a decade before that. So, let's face it, I also think that we should deal with the agenda, but I don't think this kind of thing can be tolerated and that the insult given to us personally and to my fellow Members, no matter what the apology, I don't accept an apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4741	Thank you. They have the right to a replica, first Marinika Tepic, and then Sasa Radulovic, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4742	I would like to thank the president very briefly. I fully understand, Mr. Dacic, that you have no place to take all this out of this way, your affairs are very narrowed down in this government. Your answers, public relations, are very narrow, whenever you jump out of that box you get a lesson the next day. I totally understand that this is one of the polygons that you're using for all these frustrations, I'd say, very responsiblely, standing behind that term, but please don't do it anymore. As I fully understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4743	MPs, don't just say the hard words, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4744	I'm sorry. I totally understand that howling in black that you have also quoted on several occasions is one very difficult consequence and you are having a very difficult time dealing with it, but it will not change that situation and it will not change the whole mortgage that we have been carrying because of it, and today we are dealing with it, on what you are also trying to do, as far as I have heard, it is European integration. So be very careful when you present those qualifications to who is who or didn't wrap them in black, but the facts we all know very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4745	The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4746	Thank you. First, to correct the foreign minister, since I met him here in this room when it was voted on by the government, so I was not his proposal but the proposal by Alexander Vukic, who now uses all the opportunities to say that I am his mistake as well as Dacic's. But speaking of errors, this Agreement on the establishment of this Fund for the Western Balkans is contrary to the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, as Article 2 of that law says - an international contract is an international contract concluded by the Republic of Serbia in writing with one or more states or with one or more international organisations. Then it is a question for the minister, if so, and I suppose he doesn't think Kosovo is a star or a state or an international organisation, why is this law being violated, or if they want to promote regional co-operation, they would have to change this law first, and only after that to propose this new international contract. He didn't answer that, and it's true that he calls mistakes in politics, we call normal responsible behavior. We will win the elections, form the government and show you how responsible the state is being run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4747	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4748	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Mr. Dacic, you have a ghost and I must confess. It is something that rarely anyone can not notice or admit to you, but what is also important, and to be seen, is that you are the only coalition partner Alexander Vukic from 2012 until today who has survived politically and has not drowned in that government. As long as you last, it's kind of on your skill. But when it comes to howling in black 2008 we have indeed, even before on several occasions, believed in your sincere intention to be committed to European integration, or Euro-Atlantic politics. You have on several occasions talked about a chair in the UN, when it came to Kosovo, when the government was formed in 2012, and now the Western Balkans Fund does not believe that it is in the problem, given that you have made much stronger statements when it comes to the so-called Republic of Kosovo. I think it is very important that the Western Balkans Fund be something that we will all vote for here in parliament. I think it's important and useful for the citizens of Serbia, but I also believe that you know, and I'm absolutely sure, and I don't think the Assembly is the place to talk about, how any president treated himself and what anyone told in some private conversations. What I'm sure is that Zoran Djindjic never went to a cocktail at any embassy, as Prime Minister, which is often not the case when it comes to the government from 2012 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4749	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4750	Thank you. Since Mr. Zivkovic has repeated the question twice, allow me only a brief answer. So it's, as usual, about Abu Dhabi's type contract with the development fund and the two concrete things you mentioned don't affect this contract. So, one on the global guarantee just provides every international institution or fund that has international status, that someone who borrows funds from them will not play that loan and guarantee all their funds that they will repay it. So, in order for that member to get into the fact, Serbia should not return this. I can't imagine that situation, even at the worst of events. Therefore, that risk practically does not exist. As for the other member you're referring to, he refers, in translation it's not, according to our old laws it was so-called. Intercal interest. It's interest on an employed and undrawn asset, and that makes sense with project loans, because someone's keeping funds in liquid form according to your plan and charging you 0.5, so when they withdraw the funds, they charge you that 2.25%. Since it just can't happen here, because we're going to write a letter, demand a tranche, and that moment they're going to release the tranche, 0.5 will always be zero. So this member would theoretically apply to this project loan, because it's not a project loan and there's no way we're looking for a tranche and then cancel it, then it won't be applied. As for the previous combination, I didn't want to answer earlier, Mr. Radulovic came out of the gym on another occasion, just to say that in this particular situation there is no fear of currency risk. We don't change the level or the structure of public debt. In a simple situation, to be easy to think about, to get a billion or to get 200 million each, at that point we can pay some of our dues and thus buy time to buy at any time from the effective moment of this loan, by the end of this loan in ten years we can choose the moment when courses at our discretion and based on the management of public debt, responsible public debt management can be made... Back to the euro or buy it on the market. I would never agree to have someone lay down some strict rules in advance. The Public Debt Administration rule should be that on the basis of the information that exists and the instruments they have so manage public debt, the cost, the level of debt and the cost of Serbia should be minimal. That's the point. Therefore, having funds and thus saving 40,50 million each billion is the first goal. The second goal is how we're going to use it, whether we're going to pay the interest, the principal, or in advance, pay some credit. Each of them gives you the same effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4751	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. To whom? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Minister. There isn't. He just answered the question. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: It is not true. The minister says it's true. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Okay, and who is the host here, who is here who makes decisions, Minister or MPs? You're the president of the MPs. You're not a secretary to the ministers. Give me the replica. I've made progress, MP. Last time I was a scumbag, I don't know if organic or artificial, we didn't discuss it, and now I'm already a secretary, so I'm making progress. I won't give you a warning. Now you've raised the level, because being the secretary of one minister, I think it's an honorable job, really, and thank you very much, because still from the garbage, I've progressed to do something concrete. Yeah, you said I was a piece of shit. That's what I warned Parliament about. Otherwise, it's all one thing to me. Thank you for confirming, and for the secretary, I have no basis, because it's an honorable job and thank you very much. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You give me a replica.]] (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I thought so. Replica. Well, yeah, but none of that. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4752	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, now you see how I feel. Our good people suffer, it's a fact, and they suffer because they weren't politically active, they weren't socially active enough and they didn't stop bad people from ruling and managing their fates. I already explained that and my colleague, the farmer, said Macedonia is better than us, that it is 10th. Well, Macedonia didn't have such a thunderbolt for the prime minister. There's a saying in Macedonia -- don't let God make your winemaker prime minister. I believe that, as I believe he didn't take the dinar. He doesn't take dinars, he takes euros. I firmly believe that, and I have proof. I know he's a loan expert and this has something to do with the loan, so he says this - a kractor's loan contract, he says between ZZ, better known as my fellow farmer, it's a lender, and the borrower is ZZ again, my fellow farmer on behalf of the company "Empresa". He says -- a 41,000-euro loan from the ZZ, under interest, here's the contract, who doesn't believe can check, here's the signatures of ZZ, ZZ, lender, borrower. I ask all of you, especially Dr. Rancic, because he's a psychologist, how did these two agree?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4753	I need you to link it to the agreements we have on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4754	Well, it's a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4755	No, that deal with...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4756	Well, the loan agreement. Here – lender and borrower, ZZ, ZZ, 41,000 euros. He says the dinar hasn't been seen. Because he was taking Euros. The privatisation of DIN according to Philip Morris, here again these abraca-dabras, cyribu-ciriba wave to the business. They're distracting me. This time to count me in. I wonder how they arranged 10% interest? This must have been the income of those $12m paid for privatising DIN to Philip Morris, which was three times below the price, surely. There's evidence. Now, what's who, how much he gambled, what he turned into property, remains to be seen, but the loan is undeniable. I'm now asking the finance minister -- how can someone borrow their own money, still account for 10% of the interest? And secondly, has this 41,000-euro income been previously taxed? Because it's Z.Z. Known, we have already said that he was the director of "Empre" and he says, while we are already on these tax revenues and agreements, he says – no value added tax of 17.948.952 dinars is determined, on 29 January 2016, with interest until 25.12.2015 of 4.430.932 dinars, which is more than 22 million. Since the interest goes this year, that's 25 million. So my question would be – how can a person with so much income in euros have this kind of debt? There's another solution, I forgot, of two million, this is a little something for him. I'm telling you, he didn't see the dinars, he only saw the euros. In the end, to say that stupidity is not a deadly disease. Apparently, some people reach the highest social heights and experience a deep age. I think I could give my colleague advice to a farmer, but I don't think there's any advice here that helps a guardian, and Pavicevic... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4757	I can't let this happen. Ambassador, I turned off your microphone at the end of the sentence. I can't let that happen, really. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4758	Thank you very much. Article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted, and Article 107. - The speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You let him talk for a long time. I can't imagine you're the one who let the president spend so much of our time. There is a day tomorrow, when questions are asked by the minister, so if he wishes to ask Mr Vujovic a question, he should choose tomorrow after 16 hours. I sincerely hope that Mr Vujovic will be there and will answer those questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4759	Thank you. He didn't waste your time, he was wasting his time with his MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4760	He was wasting our time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4761	It's not. Don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4762	He spent our time and spent the time of the people of Serbia sitting here listening... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4763	Are you done? (Sonja Pavlovic, from the post: You have excluded me. I can't include you by saying whatever you want. There's a line, there's a Rules of Procedure you keep warning about, but when we get to the fact that you should respect the Rules of Procedure, that's not true. So it's okay. He didn't waste your time, he was wasting his MPs' time. The MP is an MP, like all 249, and he doesn't represent himself but the people who circled his list or his name, so you can't say that someone is wasting your time. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure on this. It's abuse. I'll take you two minutes on the Rules of Procedure. You're waving at the Rules of Procedure for nothing. Did the MP jump out of the topic? When it comes to MP Marijan Rističević, he speaks in his own language and in his own way talks about loans today, and we, who are some other political spectrum or the same, can discuss whether we like it or not, as someone else can discuss with previous speakers, whether it is acceptable for them or their voters. We'll go a long way if we do that. So whatever's in some context, let's tolerate it. I've tried to warn you a few times, or to cut it short, I can't, I admit it, but whatever. Sonja Pavlovic is out, and I'm not going to ask her if we're going to vote, but I will. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4764	Of course, whenever I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to vote. Article 27(2) - the President of the National Assembly shall take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. The speaker you are now defending to speak in the language of the people, as if we were speaking Swahili here or I don't know which language he was speaking, could be concluded on the personal matters of another MP, which wouldn't be a problem if it weren't for lies. You let him bring out shameless lies that had nothing to do with what I used to do with any contracts where, of course, I can see from here that there's no signature. So it could have been written by anyone in writing. Risticevic couldn't write it himself, but someone could help him. As for the tax debt of the company mentioned, I haven't been the director of that company since I was the first MP in this previous session in 2014, so send it back to whoever sent it to you, so let's fill in that part. You let him talk all the time about something that doesn't matter, not even in the language of the people, which is your obligation to conduct a debate in the right direction. You didn't try to break it, but when he said the last sentence, you told him to hang up. Therefore, I do not think that in this way you can live normally and work normally in this House. It's no problem to hear thousands of lies. Of course, I can't be offended by anything like that, no one who looks like that speaker. The problem is that it undermines the reputation of this institution. I repeat, regardless of your presence, this is still a temple of democracy and don't turn it into something I said already.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4765	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a advertised member of the 103st century 7th and 8th, who says – when an MP abuses the opportunity to advertise the Rules of Procedure and turns it into a replica to take that time away. I don't know if there's enough time left for a gentleman, but the truth is, it's about the dignity of the National Assembly, it's been said that some contract is a lie. I'm offering all MPs to make sure of this and check it out. So that's one thing. Number two, the APR solution says – Z.Z. is entered. 23 November 2015. It also violated the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Here, whoever doesn't believe, come check it out. So, since it is a matter of dignity, I am obliged to show you one more time, and all MPs can come and see for themselves, the tax administration's solutions, and there are two. So here, once upon a time, my fellow farmer said it was a lie...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4767	Ambassador, you've entered the line, and you haven't asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4768	I said dignity was hurt because it was said that I was lying... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4769	Ambassador, please respect me. (Marian Risticevic, from the post: I do not ask to be voted.) So while you were talking about Article 103 and hurting him in the sense that I should have taken two minutes away from him, I have nothing to take from him. He used it for five minutes, and I have nowhere to get it from. Only to ban his replicas, and that would be something innovative. When you went into replication, I had to react. One way or another, my role is to put up with everything. What do I do? Nobody's perfect, neither am I. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic, and let the National MP Jelena Vujic Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4770	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, listening to today's discussion, I came to a few conclusions regarding what we said from the early morning of this debate. First of all, if we are talking about the economy, i.e. credit responsibilities that were on the agenda and with respect to the way Minister Vujovic has today explained it in a normal, correct and cultural way, I must say, he has worked really hard to show the economic results of the Government of Serbia from 2014 to today, since Alexander Vucic. Which means that since 2012 the government, headed by Mr Dacic, has not achieved such good results, but it is no excuse because they are the same coalition partners and then the party of Aleksandra Vukic was dominant in that government. Also, I have come to the conclusion that the loan we are now taking is not taken to refinance expensive loans, but its exact intentions are not known. Also, we don't have a spending structure for this loan either, nor did we have for the loan that we already took from the United Arab Emirates, and that the budget report was not delivered to the MPs and the report on the spending of the loan, because not even some previous governments did so. Well, if they didn't do it well, why don't you correct that mistake and show that it can be done differently, and of course the control body for spending credit funds wasn't even formed or when it was dealing with that job. As for the overall economic situation, I, Mr Vujovic, will tell you a few things, which is that the economy of a country is also seen in the economic power index. Based on some analyses, according to the economic power index, the Republic of Serbia is at the beginning of the region by the following parameters, parameters, therefore, based on the overall growth of the gross domestic product, the estimated GDP growth rate, then the average net salary, real inflation growth and unemployment rates of public and external debt and balance of balance of payments. Based on these parameters, Serbia is the last place in the region. Albania, for example, is the first in total GDP growth, then Montenegro will be a GDP growth recordr, and I do not now list Romania, Bulgaria and all these others. But it is very important to say that Serbia is also the worst in the region for rising consumer prices. Now, your macroeconomic analysis and the explanations you've made, I appreciate that, therefore, and relations with international financial institutions and everything else, but I have to tell you that life down there is much lower. I ask you, when we talk about the situation in Serbia, to come down among the people, among the citizens, and see how they live today. Today, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is based on data from the Statistical Office 367 euros. Only Macedonia in the region has a lower than us by five euros. In parallel, the consumer basket is about 500 euros. So our citizens lack 130 euros at the level of the month, Mr Vujovic, so they can live normally. Also, if we look at the way the deficit has been reduced, that is, taken from citizens, populations and businesses to reduce it, it has not been enough for us and we are taking another billion euros to continue to stabilise and fiscal consolidation of our country. So what we have now been able to hear about for the past few months about large savings, economic results, surplus in the first seven months, when we look at it in a broader picture and how it is living in Serbia today, there is still no result except for data to increase the number of absolutely poor people in the Republic of Serbia, and that overall unemployment, if we look at the absolute amount, is reduced by only 17,000 people compared to 2015 and 2014 respectively. But if we look at 58,000 working people leaving Serbia in 2015, it gives an answer to how many people we've really hired. Now, as far as this other topic is concerned, that is, about the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans, while we are talking here today about whether the ratification of the agreement is yet another step in recognising Kosovo's independence, some media published one news a few hours ago. It is good that Minister Dacic is also there, which is that Pristina today has sent a memo asking for EU guarantees that Serbia's EU membership will be conditioned by recognising the state of Kosovo and preventing Serbia from preventing Kosovo from joining various international organisations. So we saw this medium being called to a source from the government. What I'm interested in. All the time, all these four years, we have been listening to a declarative push, i.e. for non-recognition of Kosovo, parallel to this by the government and MPs of this parliament taking part in a dialogue with Kosovo parliamentarians. So we need to know what's true. Did we recognise Kosovo as a state or not? And what's agreed in Brussels and what's signed? One more sentence and I'm done. Mr Dacic said for a moment – at least we fought for Kosovo. I could understand it in a way that it was lost, because it was such a tone that he said that at least he was fighting unlike some others. We all have an obligation to fight for Kosovo, it is part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4771	Thank you, you've wasted your time with the parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is Jelena Vujic Obradovic, is she there? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4772	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates, at the very beginning, and as speaker in front of the JS parliamentary group, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all government proposals that are on the Parliament's agenda today, which the government has sent to the Assembly for a decision. So it's about laws that ratify international agreements. The point at which I appeared today is very important for the economy of our country, but also for the economy of municipalities and cities, which is the proposal for a law to confirm the financial agreement "Apeks", a loan for small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities of the 3B Group for Entrepreneurs and Local Self-Government, which the government has submitted to the Assembly for an emergency decision, which is concluded between the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia. I'll explain why we'll support this law. The reasons for the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure stem from the fact, above all, that it is not necessary to come out of continuity and that the withdrawal of funds to finance projects of small and medium-sized enterprises and other priorities is conditioned by the entry into force of the Financial Contract Confirmation Act. Entrepreneurship is the future of our country. The credit signed with the European Investment Bank is absolutely justified from the point of view of the economy. This type of loan at favourable interest rates and the long-term repayment deadline is a priority for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for local self-government, as this creates new jobs, creates a stronger economic environment for the long term, strengthens the economy and society. To us from JS one of the priorities is employment and new jobs. This type of loan is something that is most important for the Republic of Serbia at the moment, as it is more favourable borrowing and encouraging entrepreneurship that must be one of the most important strategic objectives of the Republic of Serbia and which must continue its continuity. There are about 350,000 in Serbia, according to statistics, small and medium-sized enterprises that are active, which employ about 850,000 people and have the potential to be the backbone of growth in the economy. The interest of the government and all Serbian citizens we represent is that small and medium-sized enterprises are doing well and strong. It should be noted that the strategy to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises from 2015 to 2020 provides for the opening of around 100,000 new jobs, while respecting the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises can only have concrete and strategic moves of the state and by obtaining loans at more favourable interest rates, credits more favourable to entrepreneurs can significantly affect economic growth, the country's rebirth, as well as budget surplus. As an example of good practice, I would like to point out the city of Jagodin, which recognized the importance of economy and businesses, the importance of bringing investors, the importance of favourable loans. Supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, they significantly support the economic and economic infrastructure development of the city and the country globally, because without economically strong cities, there is not even a strong country. The city of Jagodina has otherwise experienced a lightning economic-infrastructure development in which a large number of private enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, supported by the city of Jagodina through development incentives funds, are present. It should be noted that Jagodina is ahead of employment and fighting for every new job, as well as surplus in the budget, strong industry. In the strawberry-industrial zone, about a dozen factories have been opened for the past ten years, and I would only mention some "Aunde", "Vibac", "Mobile Group" and others. A strategy to open new factories and bring new investors into the future has also been continued. All this completes the economic development of the city, but on the other hand, our country. However, on the other hand, I will set an example of smaller towns and municipalities, funds and agencies operating in these cities, as I come from a smaller municipality from Alexandrovac, a well-known fruit-wine-building area, where these funds are not sufficiently used. You should say, and here I would turn and I would take advantage of the opportunity of today's guests and ministers, that a little more attention in the future turns to these smaller cities, since funds with smaller interest rates can only be used in these smaller cities by larger giants, and for many small and medium-sized enterprises these retail funds are not available at all and have never used them. They used other loans from development funds, funds from agriculture, the Development Agency, but these funds are only received after the completion of the investment where they return about 40 to 50% of the costs of the VAT-free price. We all know that these are the most favourable loans in relation to the loans offered by Apex Loan. Economists believe small and medium-sized enterprises are Serbia's development opportunity and we agree. In order to prevent the tendency to close small and medium-sized enterprises more than open up, it is necessary for the state to allocate as much funds as possible for their long-term financing and loans at more favourable interest rates. Since mid-2002, the European Investment Bank has granted the Republic of Serbia five "Apex loans for small and medium-sized enterprises", medium-market capitalisation companies, priority projects, entrepreneurs and local self-government. The first four loans amounting to 565,000 euros were fully used for the realisation of 630 loans, and therefore it was planned to open around 7,000 jobs or more precisely as 6,920 jobs were then listed, which is the positive side of these loans and meaningful. This fifth "Apeks loan for small and medium-sized enterprises" and other priorities, the European Investment Bank approved a total of 500m euros, which is very important to know...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4773	Thank you. You've wasted your time. I thank the MPs. The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4774	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers and associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, unfortunately, we have deprived ourselves of a considerable amount of time to discuss and justify all these five loans, because Serbia owes these loans a billion dollars and 244m euros, so that we remain only in the short period of time to touch the individual loans that are united here. I'm just gonna take a quick look at this loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund. You say this loan is a billion euros, that billions of dollars will mostly be spent on financial support for the budget. To the remarks of many MPs here that we need to know exactly what purposes this billion will be spent on, because we do not know exactly what exactly the purposes spent and the previous billion, you have mainly explained that a good part of this loan will be spent and that much more expensive loans and loans will be recovered so far. How much of this money will remain, and you've explained it well when the programming budget remains for real capital investments that will be the basis for Serbia's economic development, we'll only see it by 2021. I'm just going to give you a moment's attention to Article 4(3) of this Bill proposal - what is the pledge for this loan because it is said that no external debt has priority over the loan on the basis of the loan property of the borrower. So it takes a lot of time to make sure that if we don't get this loan back, what are we gonna pay him back for? Do I land, do I water, do I land, do I bathe? Is that a very important question that we should talk about or maybe our company? I'll distract you and that this is a private fund. It is probably a broad arrangement related to "Belgrade on Water" and "Er Serbia" and to the purchase of land that will expand to who knows what other wealth of Serbia that will come here, your friends from the Arab Emirates to buy. Why isn't the contract a currency dollar if we keep mentioning it's a billion dollars, but it's a dirham? You're saying there's no concern about the stability of their currency that's been stable for years, there's no fear that this loan, or the principal of this loan, is going to increase significantly over time when we need to start returning it. I simply point out that the question of how stable their currency will be and you know best what this stability depends on. With this loan, there's something else to pay attention to, arbitration. The arbitration tribunal makes up one of our representatives, one representative of the fund and another if we agree together. If we don't agree on him in 60 days, he's named Secretary General of the Arab League, so that's 2:1 for the Arab side. Short on loans for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is true that the number of 350,000 small and medium-sized enterprises and 850,000 jobs alone says that small and medium-sized enterprises should be the cornerstone of Serbia's future development, but whether these 150m euros we take will only be for business banks, because who will lend credit will give business banks under the conditions they set. Will small and medium-sized enterprises eventually remain deprived of access to these funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4775	Let me see which of the ministers will respond. The word is Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4776	I just wanted to say something about this in the end, although Mr. Alexic is not here right now, but he asked me about Edith Tahiri and what it says in the media. She presented it today in the so-called Parliament has been cutting some papers with alleged their demands, or conditions for continuing dialogue with us where it has written a series of her wishes and something that absolutely cannot be acceptable to anyone, let alone the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So it's a joke and it's absolutely unserious and unacceptable, and neither will we take it into consideration. If someone sets it up, such conditions for continuing dialogue, which is war damage, establishing the border, recognising Kosovo, blocking Serbia to join the EU until it recognises Kosovo, conditions for Serbia to accept Kosovo's membership in international organisations, if these are the conditions, then there will be no dialogue. To whom can the hair set the conditions? Who will ask them what the conditions for continuing dialogue will be, but well, it is for internal and political use in Kosovo. The Serbian government will discuss it tomorrow. I'm just saying, don't think it's something they're hiding, they've been looking for it from the very beginning, they've been avoiding it at all, because they never wanted to talk about serious issues. They think it's all over and it's a waste of time and they're actually losing it at a pace, because they can't accomplish what they're up to in a hurry. So Serbia absolutely has no intention of seriously considering these requirements and, I must tell you right now about European integration, of course we want European integration, we want a way into the EU, but you know, if it's a condition for European integration. No, no, European integration is next. EU membership negotiations include Chapter 31. It's coordinating our foreign defence security policy. By the time we join the EU, we have such an obligation to bring it into line. On the other hand, when we become EU members, full-fledged, we participate in determining this policy. So don't let it turn out that we have five, six, seven years to do our own damage before all of this. We certainly won't do it, and they think that if we don't open up some chapters, we'll get scared, we'll accept everything we're asked for when it comes to Kosovo. I want to make it clear to you that there is no opening of chapters solely because of dialogue in Brussels. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Who is to blame? It's the wrong side. It's certainly not our fault. Why? Because we've fulfilled everything that's up to us that we've signed. The Albanian side sets conditions that were not part of the deal. At the first meeting I had with Katherine Ashton and Thaci, I asked for talks on property. They didn't want to put it on the agenda until today, so they'd say today, well, I guess it's understood that the property is Kosovo's. That's no way to have serious conversations. We can accept what we have agreed, and to what is yet to be agreed, it is a long and difficult path. But anyway, this is a list and a fountain of wishes, Edith Tahiri, and that's how it's gonna stay. It can hang on the Kosovo Assembly's advertising board. Serbia will never seriously discuss this and will never accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-10-26-0.u4777	Thank you. This is what we're gonna do today. We've done a lot of work. Tomorrow, ask the government a question at 4:00 p.m. So, I'll see you tomorrow at 4:00, and after 19.00 we'll discuss the sequel. Dear People's MPs, we approach asking parliamentary questions in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to Article 105. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that apply to the way MPs are asked, since in this session this is our first session of this kind. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes, Article 204(4). Rules of Procedure. Following an answer to the MP's question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of Rules of Procedure of Rule 216. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs, that those who have not yet done so, submit their applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The first MP to apply is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
