ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u215	I didn't report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, but as an authorised representative of the motionor. I don't think, Mr. Micunovic, you had the right to interrupt Friday's National Assembly session, especially you had no right to do so without consulting the presidents of the parliamentary groups. You remember that on Friday, we had consultations with the presidents, or vice-presidents of the parliamentary groups, that the SNS had come out to meet the parliamentary group you belong to and the parliamentary group of Mr Sasa Radulovic, that the agreement was that both the DS and the Sasa Radulovic Movement would receive one seat as vice-president of the National Assembly and that the work of the Assembly would continue. Your argument that the Assembly can't work at night absolutely doesn't stand. We have worked many times at night and the SNS parliamentary group is ready to work day and night to not only finish this session, but also to work for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the future. You, Mr. Micunovic, if at some point you get tired, there is a solution. According to Article 3. Rules of Procedure, if you do not want to or cannot hold a session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will run for next chair which is the oldest in years. So, there can't be a situation where we don't have the oldest chairman. The oldest chairman of this National Assembly can always be found. So, the SNS parliamentary group is appealing to you, who are currently the chairman, and you are the chairman because the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure say so, not because anyone has chosen you to do this function, that you are holding a session of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you do not interrupt the session on your own, because it is contrary to any good political custom. If we have had enough hearing to extend the number of vice presidents, to meet the proposal that all vice-presidents are voiced together, then you, Mr Micunovic, must have enough understanding for the fact that all MPs, including the MPs from the SNS Group, have the right to speak. If sometimes that word is a little harder and sometimes a little sharp - and for that you have to have an understanding. The National Assembly is not a science academy, but a political body in which parliamentary groups share political arguments. I appeal to you, as president of the SNS parliamentary group, to lead the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not to do anything on your own. If you have a need to consult, not only do these consultations with the president of your parliamentary group, but all of them, to get out of this situation in a democratic way, so that this session is finally over and that we can continue to work on it, because there is still a lot of work to do before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the next four years, we need to make a large number of laws, a large number of decisions, and I urge you to block the work of the National Assembly by your inaction or by your actions on your own in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u216	He has the word Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the head of the ruling party's parliamentary group, we are going back to Friday's situation. On Friday, we sat down for ten hours, and the chairman scheduled a new appointment in the next working day, which is totally in line with the Rules of Procedure and is fully in line with the parliamentary practice that has been developing here for 25 years. It's his right. He came to this place as the oldest, not by his own free will or by the will of one of us. Be careful, if someone is the oldest among us, ten hours of presidency for him represents crossing some physically tolerated border, and is not obliged to resign in that place, to give up the presidency, or to leave someone to lead. It's his to lead the session, the youngest MPs help him, and if we're not done in ten hours, we'll continue. There's a problem with your haste here. I don't know why you're in such a hurry, but if you're in such a hurry, why didn't you schedule a constitutional session 20 days ago so there wouldn't be a rush? We've already started with these basic questions with a huge rush. If you're in a hurry, then why do you have to answer every MP in the opposition? Well, keep something quiet. You won't? Well, then wait. You can't keep your mouth shut and hurry. You can pull one good one out, you can't do it either, because they're shutting each other down. If you want it to end quickly today, shut up. If you don't want to, then larmaze all day, and we'll do it tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u218	According to the Rules of Procedure, Vukadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u219	Dear Members of Parliament, dear colleagues, I am advocating Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I think that the way not the session is over, but what she demonstrated at the end of Friday's session, or at least some members of the largest parliamentary group so far, is a flagrant example of violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and I believe that the way of conversion, although seemingly decent and kind we have seen now in the first exhibition, shows that such practice will continue. This was not about the exchange of political arguments, the respected colleagues, but about some kind of verbal link to a few representatives of the opposition, or several parliamentary groups. I also appeal to the chairman, and I know it's not easy, to ensure peace, that anyone can say in two, three, four minutes, how many minutes he has, to say his opinion, without interruption and throw away. Otherwise, we'll make this parliament a high-level assembly and otherwise we'll have a situation...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u220	Please, one moment. (Jorge Vukadinović, from the site: Please, I have two minutes at my disposal. ) Slowly, we have an unusual situation here to involve another issue in the middle of the work, and this is a question of how the chairman-in-Office was initiated. He's asking me, please allow me, if you've already opened that question, it's open to the general public that saw yesterday's session, when the candidate came to me with the worst words and insults and accused me of a coup, that I had committed a coup and I hadn't been out of the house for two days waiting to be arrested, because it's still a big, biggest crime. Since I haven't been arrested, then I'll be able to continue in that style, if it's a matter of crime. Let's not again, those who initiated such a long course last session, including the beginning of Mr. Martinovic, who would still show his combativeness today and start the replica again. I had an intention, as I intended, and last time, I said, let's get the job done. They could only speak to representatives of parliamentary groups, since we have one candidate and the matter would end, but someone cared to show, show, show, their combativity and began attacking the political parties of the opposition. So, please, you can protest as much as you want, you've opened the topic, I want to answer your question. So, please, I'm interrupting this debate. I'm continuing the session where she's been, and I'm going to hold on to the end no matter what pressures I put on her, they're not going to have any effect. The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. I would ask you indeed, since you are a technical person here, under the circumstances you have the most years compared to the other 249 MPs, to really stick to this fact and to run this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution, it seems that you have remembered some of your past and times when you have been advocate of Tito's ideology, so for you to follow the law was according to his, there is no need to stick to the law as a drunken vessel, to somehow comply with this age where you have to stick to both the law and the Rules of Procedure. One of the things is that you don't give a word to whom it comes down, but there has to be a basis. So, right after you proposed, you gave one of the MPs, I don't remember a coma anymore, a word of pure peace. So you're doing some public consultation here. It's a newspaper in parliament's work. That's the first one. Secondly, when you intend to discuss the informal talks of two MPs after your rude interruption of the session, then it is also a custom in our parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, means a written custom, to take this card, to go to the O.R. among your DS or DOS MPs and to discuss and enter the controversy with us. Whether I told you something or didn't, so since I don't have a witness, and I respect your age, I can't tell you what I might say to someone younger, but unlike you, I respect this home, I respect my colleagues, and I respect my home education, so I won't go into some rough controversy with you, and I won't tell you what you told me and answered. But I will introduce the MPs to a sentence that is not ugly but warning, you said on Friday – I am the president of parliament. So much so that the public of Serbia knows that we have a single president of parliament. One more thing, we have as much time as you want. The citizens of Serbia have chosen us, and you are doing whatever you want from this Parliament and as long as you want, we will wait patiently for you to start leading this parliament in the way that a technical person should lead to the election of the president and vice president. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u222	According to the Rules of Procedure, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u223	I quote Article 106(1) to remind you once again – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. First, the proposing representative spoke about the chairman. This can be done in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not when it comes to the word. After that, a word was given to the president of the SRS without any basis. After that, we continued the debate beyond the agenda. If anyone has anything to say about how the chairman runs the session, they can do it in the context of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not when he comes forward. I ask you all to return to the agenda which is the election of the president of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u224	Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Saša Radulovic, from the place: No. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u225	Mr. Chairman, Article 27(2) that you are obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure as my predecessor used to say, but I must tell you one thing. So all the time, you're the reason for what's going on. It is my impression as a People's Messenger, who I am a People's Messenger shorter than you have, but since December 2000. So, first, you gave your word to the esteemed MP, Professor Vojislav Seselj, and on what basis no one knows. Secondly, you justify yourself for the act you've done by the MPs of the SNS speaking a lot. You can't tell us how we behave in parliament. We act in accordance with our decision and our strategy by respecting the Rules of Procedure. You can't tell us, you're all answering for a word. Well, we won't take your word for it if you're having a session in the Rules of Procedure. So I'm saying that you and the 27th most responsible, whether you want to admit it or not, are the most responsible for what has happened and what is happening now. On the first day you sent messengers to lie, to tell lies. Everyone knows they're false and they're lies, and you didn't interrupt them, and it's your duty to stop them. It doesn't matter which side they're on. I know two specific cases, both of them from the opposition, but you haven't done what you're obliged to do, to interrupt someone, and to say, don't do it, don't insult them, don't say things like that. Please conduct a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and you will see that everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u226	Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: I answer the word. ) Replica, or? (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. He mentioned me. ) Replications cannot come to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u227	Mr. Micunović, I just want to point you to Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly since I don't think you understood me the best way. Article 3. Paragraph 1 writes well – If the oldest MP cannot or does not wish to chair, the National Assembly meetings shall be chaired by the next oldest, present MP. So, Mr. Micunovic, none of you ask that, as you say, you demission, you hold a session, and we only appeal to you to lead the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you do not make any decisions to interrupt the session on your own because it is not politically correct. If we could have agreed on the number of vice presidents, if we could have agreed on selecting vice presidents by one vote, I don't see any reason why we couldn't agree on the course of the session itself. We're in no hurry. As for the SNS parliamentary group, this session can take two days and five days and 10 days. One day it'll be over. One day the president of the National Assembly will be elected, so there is no need for anyone to get excited about it. We just want this session to have that current that is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and that you are working your job as chairman in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and it is nice in the Rules of Procedure that you do not have a monopoly on the function of the Chairman, because if you do not want to or cannot do your job as chairman, then this job will be done instead of you by the next MP who is right behind you for years. The Rules of Procedure are very simple on this matter. So respect the Rules of Procedure, work and hold a session according to the Rules of Procedure. If at some point you get tired or say that you no longer want to hold a session to call for consultations, we will find the oldest MP for you who will do his job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and as far as we are concerned, we can work day and night and Saturday and Sunday, and two days and five days and 10 days, you can prevent Mrs. Maja Gojkovic from being elected president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u228	You have to talk 10 times. There is no agreement on how the session will end. That's not what we agreed on. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: There are agreements on the number of vice presidents. No, nor does it say in the Rules of Procedure that it must be agreed upon. So don't go back on the subject. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: So there is no agreement on the number of vice presidents. ( ) As far as my presidency is concerned, I will try to be perfectly correct and fine, and I urge you not to be offended and to finish the session. If you don't want to, you say you have a lot of time, I believe I also have a lot of time, we can make a deal. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Does it say that you can let someone else lead?) If there's no one left to hurt the Rules of Procedure, let's move on. I'm asking the authorized representatives or the heads of the parliamentary groups if any of them are answering for a word. Mr. Palma has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u229	I'm not offended by that nickname, you can call me that, the citizens of Serbia don't know about Dragan Markovic, but they know about Palma. I want to apologize for not attending the session of the Serbian Parliament on Friday, because I had to go to Greece, and I scheduled that date two months ago. A unique Serbia opened the Paralia Office in the Pyreia region. The office's function is to help citizens of Serbia go to Greece to sea. When it comes to running for president of the assembly. If you're running for office, that someone must have some reference. I think Maja Gojkovic has a very good reference for the post, given that Maja Gojkovic named her name in 2004 as the mayor of Novi Sad and won. There are a few of us in this room who won the election, name and last name, that's one reason. The second reason, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, was the president of the Assembly, she was very well chaired by meetings of the Assembly, very well chaired and what was important for us from the JS, that this was a democratic way and that every month we had a government in parliament and each of the MPs who wanted to either criticise or suggest something, had the right to say a word. It is not about the length of the speech, as it was Friday, but what the length of the speech sends, which are messages for Serbian citizens. I think the bad start of this parliament is because Serbian citizens expect a lot more from parliament, and that someone is respected for defending himself if the opposition attacks him, that's his right. The relationship for each opposition is one to ten, or one to, I don't know, 15 and they have the right to defend themselves, no one can challenge them. What are the priorities at this point? They are not priorities for the Parliament's election that MPs argue and talk about each other. There will be a lot of topics and a lot of agenda points in the next period of time, where we will all have a chance to talk. Serbia has no time to wait. Here I am going to tell you that five investors are waiting to form a government. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Why didn't you bring them here? They have no right to come, and they will come when I call them Mr. Vojislave, be sure and I will bring one to Batajnica, there near you... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I need a garden to bathe me. If you wait for them to bathe in the garden, there will be gardens in the weeds and in the nettles. So these are our priorities to help the citizens. We need to change the school system. So, we start our school year in September of the month, to cut out those high school occupations that don't have a future, to put in some other professions, etc. A large number of Serbian cities have not been established for reasons waiting for the first constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that technical officials, to call them that, in these cities and municipalities, cannot do what they are called investments. A unique Serbia proposes to you, all of us, to speed up the election of the President of the Assembly and to have the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible in the next period of time. It is a key topic and what the government of the Republic of Serbia's programme is and what it is about if someone thinks it is a bad proposal, to point out their arguments. I hope this parliament will not work as it has done in recent years, that it only criticises that nothing is wrong. If something's wrong, what's better? If it's no good, Maja Gojkovic, who's better than Maja Gojkovic? Furthermore, we must give for the right, this party has the largest number of MPs. The largest number of MPs won in parliament. Political stability exists in Serbia and Serbia in international relations. I am sure that those of us who think well of Serbia will not allow political stability to rock in this parliament. Political stability is very important for the economic security of our citizens. If there is political stability, then there will be a large number of investors in Serbia and that the sooner we create conditions to increase both salaries and pensions. In order to create conditions, to increase wages and pensions, we must also create conditions to increase the inflow in the budget. If we keep this up, the budget will have some problems. Then they will have the responsibility of those who support the government. Let me tell you, JS supported the government of Alexander Vukic and we haven't repented. We're going to a meeting tomorrow. We're not looking for any functions. Well, you don't need someone to give you the ministerial post that you work for Serbia. I've been offered ministerial posts from the last three governments. I have not accepted any of the functions, but I have given myself the right to go to Europe, to represent Serbia as the greatest official and to help many cities in Serbia benefit from that. And so I want the JS that I'm leading to continue, and I'm sure our coalition partner, the SPS, whose president is Ivica Dacic, we've also met about this programme exactly, which I'm talking about right now. So here in parliament, we're not going to be interested in voices at all, and I don't know if we're going to send a message, get more votes, or the same votes we've had. The citizens will evaluate and assess what we've been doing. When it comes to the largest party that has won the largest number of MPs in parliament, they have the greatest right, but you know what, if we talk about the elections every day, about the election result, about something that has passed, let's put an end to it, to go on, to compete who will and what more will do for Serbia in Serbia. It's a proposal and a JS program and we're not giving it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u230	He's got Mrs. Filipovski's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the people, the honourable citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the New Serbia parliamentary group, I would like to support the candidate's proposal, namely the re-election of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic as Parliament's president. For me personally and for my colleagues from the NS parliamentary group, this is very important also because Mrs Gojkovic was a representative of the less-represented sex, which she did extremely well in the past term, although I am pleased to say that Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic also performed her post as Parliament Speaker, of course, and Mrs Natasa Micic, at a very difficult political moment for Serbia. But at the beginning of my presentation, I must look back in a few sentences on the first day of the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I also believe that you, Mr Micunovic, as chairman of, contrary to democratic principles, interrupted the constitutional session of parliament and in one undemocratic way stopped our work and the election of Parliament's president. I do not dispute that it is your legitimate right, but I do not think it is in democratic principle, and you are, for me, the personification of democracy in the DS in Serbia. Also, I think that at the beginning of a constitutional session and during a ten-hour debate, many fellow Members of Parliament tried to replace the thesis in their discussions, because they pointed out that the majority threatened the minority. We have a direct transmission and, thank God, the citizens of Serbia were able to make sure it wasn't true. But it is not good that in such a way messages are sent to the public, to the citizens of Serbia, as if there was no minimum tolerance in parliament, that there is no minimum of mutual respect and that parliament will not have credibility for work. Also, the main theme of the first day of the assembly session was prices at the congregation restaurant. It is legitimate that some colleagues have published this on social networks, but it is not good that those colleagues who are first MPs, I would say, are very consciously destroying the credibility of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I must say that the same prices are in the government in parliament and that the MP in question did not speak of it at all while he was a minister. If the problem is a congregation restaurant, I think we should talk about it, but at the College, with arguments being presented, respecting facts, so let's see what we're going to do with 400 people working here and getting paid between 30,000 and 40,000 dinars, see what we're going to do with other restaurants in Serbia that have many companies. But for the sake of Serbian citizens, I would like to say that this parliament has been very much involved in saving and has very much joined the economic consolidation over the past years. Twelve years have not changed the salary of MPs since 2004. For the past few years, we have been parliament that has the least salary not in Europe, but in the region. I don't want to be misunderstood, these salaries are appropriate for the moment we're in. Also, one-and-a-half in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is employed in the service of one-and-a-half MPs. The average somewhere in Europe is four, five. We've lifted the journals, too. The savings at the annual level of this parliament are 500 million dinars. That's the truth about the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, on Friday, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, individual MPs mentioned the work of the judiciary. The state of Serbia operates by dividing it into executive, legislative and judicial power. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia performs its legislative, representative and control role in accordance with the Constitution. As part of the control role, we control the executive power and we choose judges, but we do not have the right as MPs to comment on whether anyone appeared in court or not. It's a matter of the judiciary. Also, one of his colleagues commented on the election result of New Serbia in Cačka. Parliament is not concerned with political analysis of the elections. The results of the election are RIK. But since he mentioned the subject, I want to say that we can talk about it in a credible way and I would say an equal way only when the party of the fellow concerned wins and runs not one city, not one municipality for 20 years, but a local community. Twenty years win and lead a local community, and then tell the representatives of New Serbia to talk about who lost and who won. These are all reasons why it is very important to pick the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as soon as possible. I think it is in our interest to all of us to put together Parliament's institutions as soon as possible - the president, vice presidents and resolution committees. We have much work to do in committees because of the large number of reform laws and the opening of chapters and because the country is in a pre-accession phase towards the EU. From you, Mrs Gojkovic, I expect you to be elected by a large majority in parliament, because I think it is good for this parliament. I expect you to take care of this session and continue to modernise parliament, with the transparency of parliament, to take care of the efficiency of this parliament's work, because it is very important for the citizens of Serbia. Also, I think we've made some moves in the last term that we have to maintain in this one. It is very important that Serbian citizens work on boards can follow through the livestreams, but it is very important that our committees, which I assume will be very soon established, hold sessions outside Parliament's seat, because in this way they work in the interests of citizens and many resolution committees have resolved many issues in the interests of citizens in this way. I also expect you to support the work of informal groups that have been established in previous Parliament meetings, because they are very important for the further work of all MPs. Finally, I want to tell you that, when you are elected, you will always have constructive partners in New Serbia's MPs for the overall work of parliament and improving its efficiency and, above all, working in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u232	The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u233	Article 106 again. I'll read it again – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. On the agenda is not the current speaker, Mr Micunovic, nor are the prices in the assembly restaurant, nor is the opening of offices in another country, but the topic, I will remind you once again, is the election of the president of the Assembly. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u234	The word has a folk MP Milan Krkobibić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u235	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, Serbian citizens who follow this transfer, respected colleagues from the political options that you are in parliament for the first time today, as well as you who have had a shorter or longer break, and today you are back here, I wish you successful work and hope that it will be for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. This is the first hour of Monday and ten o'clock Friday. It can be said that we haven't moved further from the beginning, but it's also normal and common. Different political options have the need to express their views, and I would say that Serbian citizens expected to hear those views. It's a good thing we had that Friday, so the citizens of Serbia could see some of their old acquaintances, see what shape they're in, I mean the political one, to hear some new powers, and all of us to learn some lessons together. The agenda is clear, there's no need to remind ourselves. The first item is the election of the President of the Assembly and we will talk about it. Basically for the work of this Parliament, this Assembly in the future days ahead is efficiency. What we expect from the future president of the Assembly is to enable the work of this Assembly to be done effectively. Dear friends, citizens of Serbia, we are mostly defined for the European path. Of course, there are those that have not been identified. This road requires serious work from this very body and it is therefore extremely important that the President of the Assembly organises the work of this body effectively in the coming period. I think the proposed candidate, Mrs. Gojkovic, is able to do that. What's very important is responsibility, responsibility for the spoken word. The word is a very important thing, and the word can only cause problems. The president of the National Assembly has increased responsibility, much greater than we are here, much greater than those representing the congregation's majority, but also greater responsibility than those representing the opposition, with all due respect, of course. That responsibility must always be highlighted and must be a priority. An irresponsible statement can do us harm. In the past, Serbian citizens have had a lot of things that are not useful, and I hope that in the future we will go around all these things. At the same time, a certain dose of courage is needed. For example, it was impromptu to me when Mrs Gojkovic, although the proposed candidate, stood up and took her word and was, say, one Maya versus 249, although there was less, it wasn't 249, but that sounds nice. She showed a certain amount of courage. She gained this by her long political experience, learning from those who might have been braver than she was. Today we need that courage. At the same time, she did not go into those details with her suggestions and work in the presidency, but from this place she was giving constructive remarks in which direction and how this Assembly should go. Of course, I am not undermining the right of the chairmanship given to him by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure of this country to adequately, by his own free choice, lead this session. I think he'll bring a valid end. The PUPS parliamentary group will give full support because it is behind this proposal. We expect Mrs. Maja Gojkovic to lead this assembly with dignity and dignity, along with all these things I have mentioned, effectively, responsibly, courageously and professionally. I wish you successful work, and I expect from her exactly what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u236	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President, I would like to say a few words, the SDPS parliamentary group has signed its signatures within our coalition with the SNS to elect Maja Gojkovic as Parliament Speaker. We did so with full faith that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic in the previous meeting very well led the Assembly, with dignity and honor to this Assembly. I stress this because of the fact that we have to bring this debate to an end, choose a new old president, and make sure we want it in a dignified way. What I further want to emphasise, and what was not in the debate in these two days we had, was the very high results of Mrs Maja Gojkovic having in parliamentary diplomacy. As a member of the Interparliamentary Union, our delegation, I was present at many international meetings where Mrs Maja Gojkovic was worthy of representing Serbia. Many parliament presidents asked for bilateral meetings and be assured that all the results achieved by our foreign policy are in the fact that this has been made by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. What I want to stress further, democracy also means respect for fair play, respect for the election results. The election is over. Maybe it's not clear to someone yet, they're done and we have to keep doing our job. That's why we insist that the debate be brought to an end, that we do our job for which we sit here, which is to vote, that we can do our jobs that are waiting for us. That is exactly what the SDPS parliamentary group will do. We will vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, respect the fair play around the vice president, where we have taken one step forward as election winners and will vote there in the package for all vice presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u238	Alexander Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u239	First of all, I would like to welcome you all, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Dacic has obligations as foreign minister very soon to join us in parliament in the follow-up. I would like to congratulate all MPs on the election and, of course, I would like to share with all of you the hope that we will all be at the height of the task together, that we will preserve the reputation of this Parliament, that we will do everything we can to be effective, but, of course, we will all, together, develop a democratic atmosphere that should adorn the work of this highest legislative home. I think we should fight together for a decent parliament in which we will compete in ideas, in which we will oppose programmes, proposals, legislative solutions and in which we will not deal with trivialities. I think it's very good, and this atmosphere in the last 30 minutes gives me the impression that we've all put down the ball together and that it would be good to elect the president of Parliament, the vice president and the secretary general and the necessary committees without unnecessary polemics. I stress - not without discussion, but without unnecessary polemics. I hope so, and I want to believe that Friday is really after us, that it was one thing, to say a pulse measurement, and that we all turned to what the citizens of Serbia have put us here, which is to make Serbia have a parliament that will adopt laws in one effective procedure, I repeat to a decent procedure, and that we are all building together a decent Serbia. The Socialist Party of Serbia and our president, as Mr Markovic announced earlier on on behalf of Unity Serbia, will support the election of Ms. Maja Gojkovic as president of parliament, as primarily a sign of one political correctness, respecting the fact that the list of "Serbia wins" led by Mr. Vukic won the absolute majority in this House, respecting the fact that in the previous four years we worked together and tried to change Serbia, to make Serbia truly become one better place for life, respecting the fact that Mrs. Gojkovic, in the previous two years, has led an effective parliament, which together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has made really big steps towards building exactly such a modern Serbia, Serbia in which we, above all, our children, will live better and better. The parliament, together with the government, passed extremely important laws for Serbia's future. The parliament and all MPs and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, headed by the parliament, have shown courage to adopt and difficult legal solutions together with the government, adopt legislative projects that have been fled in Serbia for decades by adopting legislative projects that really need to enable Serbia to change without calculations and to make Serbia, I repeat, a more decent place to live. Mr. Micunovicu, we have great respect for you. We highly appreciate, of course, the fact that as the oldest MP, you have one responsible task in these few days, I hope, still today as the oldest Member of this House. We did not support your decision Friday to interrupt the session of parliament and we assessed at a press conference that it was an unrecorded act in the political history and practice of the Republic of Serbia. We deeply believe that you had no right to do so. Article 101 clearly defines a number of procedural things that are available to you as chairman. One of these procedural things in article 101 in point 1 is to set a break for the necessary consultations or acquisition of opinions. You obviously didn't do it, you didn't open your break for consultation, because from Friday till today, and even now, before the beginning of the session, we didn't have any consultation, and you don't have the right to, at the time when the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has a decision to work after 1800 hours, only by your own free will, make a decision to interrupt the session, because right now, a member of the 101st defines that the president of the National Assembly can interrupt the work of the National Assembly only if that is concluded by the National Assembly. So, first of all, by repeating what I have said and behind which I am really standing and not a parole, we highly respect you, your political work, but on the other hand, we expect you to put one huge political experience that you have into the function of the efficiency of this Parliament's work and respect for the parliamentary groups and their bosses. And I ask that during today's day, for the sake of organising this joint work, you make all decisions in consultation with the heads of Parliament's clubs, because I think it is precisely the role and place of the oldest among the MPs that de facto with the MPs agree on how to conduct this session, and that is precisely through the heads of Parliament's clubs. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group will support Mrs Gojkovic's election as president of the Republika Srpska Assembly. This is not a political calculation for us, it is just one political responsibility and political consistency and according to what Mrs Gojkovic has done in the past two years, but also consistency with what we as an SPS have done together with colleagues from the SNS, and I believe that much good has been done for Serbia's future in the past four years. I want a lot of success in the work of today's session and I repeat, I invite you Mr. Micunović to lead this session and this assembly with respect for parliamentary clubs and hope for consultation with the heads of Parliament clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u240	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u241	According to the Rules of Procedure, the Member of the 106th speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. I understand that you are a candidate for the President of the Assembly, but unfortunately this is not the case. I'd like to say a few sentences first of all about the violation of the Rules of Procedure that took place today on several occasions. I don't think that any non-democratic thing happened on Friday, I think that you led this Parliament greatly, and I expect, above all, by future Parliament Speaker Mrs. Maja Gojkovic to lead parliament in this way and to give a word to all the representatives in parliament, because they all got some votes. I don't see, and I don't think that Sasa Antic has broken the Rules of Procedure, I think the election of Parliament's president is a political issue, that we should debate here in the way we debate today, that's one thing. The second thing, the promoter himself took advantage of his right to extend that session with replicas. If I were him, I'd wait for everyone to finish and finally tell you what I have. It's democracy, overrule us, thank you, and I'm not asking us to plead our injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u242	The word is Anna Stevanović. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u243	It is already indicated on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u244	You said it once, it can't be another time. Maria Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u245	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group about the candidate for Serbian Parliament Speaker Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Maja Gojkovic is someone who has a very serious and envious political career behind him. She entered parliament in 1991 as... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u246	Is this some kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure or are you talking about the agenda point?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u247	Can I go on? The chairman can't hear. I've just stressed that I'm speaking as an authorised SNS candidate, Maja Gojkovic, that's how I got my word. Can I go on? All right. So, in 1991, Ms. Maja Gojkovic entered parliament as the youngest MP, before that of course also dealing with politics, but everyone who wants to deal with politics in the first place must have respect for colleagues in the same business. If we really respect each other, we leave somewhere far behind we will hardly be able to progress. I'm sure that's what colleagues who have been in politics agree with. Whatever day-to-day political conflicts, some disputes, different political views, there is a minimum of decency that we must bear all of us who want to deal with politics for a long time. Why do I insist on saying it a few times - a long time? Because you can get in for a second somewhere, and a year, two in politics are really a moment. You can go in for a little while, make a certain scandal, be interesting at something to be convinced of, but I think it's the job of politicians to take long paths through long designed processes and moves to actually fix the lives of citizens in their own country. I think the SNS has a serious political programme and a plan on how to lead the country, and this has also been shown in the previous period, which is confirmed by the results that this government made both in 2012 and 2014, which is confirmed by the international community, not only by the citizens who give us the third term to lead this country through which we are going. Maja Gojkovic has just witnessed these days, i.e. her work in the previous period. You see, when something is going relatively smoothly, when there's no interruption, when some continuity is being realized in the work, and it's been going on for the past two years, then it seems to you that someone is doing this job well. It's somewhere in Serbia some habit of ours. It's only when something gets stuck somewhere, or it stops, there's a problem, or there's a problem, then you say -- well, you see, it looks like this one and how well he's doing his job. We now see that what has happened in the previous two years in the Serbian Parliament under the chairmanship of Mrs Gojkovic's staff and how well it has worked, the number of laws we have passed, the manner of working in parliament, the change in work, the modernisation, the closerness of parliament and all working bodies, the way that works in the Serbian citizens, the greater presence of Serbian citizens in parliament, the greater their voice, the large number of conferences, events, which have actually sought to happen in parliament, not because of exceptional architecture, and because this Parliament is a kind of museum which is proud of Serbia, but because they wanted MPs who make up parliament to be part of these important events, regardless of whether they are different topics, different public hearings, conferences, some other manifestations that have greated some other values in Serbia, whether they are also part of the right in the field of culture, that they are also the right of culture. So, in any case, all that was going on, and what had significantly changed Nebojsa Stefanovic who in 2012 came to be Parliament's president and introduced all that newspaper to open Parliament, to be modern, transparent, that citizens could really come here, that they didn't feel like some isolated part away from the Serbian public, that was continued by Mrs Gojkovic in 2014, and we plan to continue with it in the next period no matter what was heard in the last two, three days when we might have been more nervous, all of us here, not just SNS MPs, because we insist that we are alone nervous. Everyone here was nervous in the sense that one job stands, one important job stands because it's political games in progress, political provocations. When we talk about the obstruction of parliament, you know, it's hard, for every fight, it takes two people, and here I think it's imagined that only the opposition can and can force that story, insists on the story that the opposition can and should accuse, speak falsely, insults the MPs of the majority, especially from the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, and that we should keep quiet. Of course we can't agree to that. It was often heard that we should have waited for all the authorities to speak, and then we could use our 20 minutes or as long as we were supposed to do so and it would all end. This is not the case in any parliament in the world. Those who particularly follow the European parliaments closest to us see that there is nothing different going on there than what is happening in the Serbian parliament. If we were to take these advices, we, SNS MPs, should wait seven to eight parliamentary groups that would speak for at least twenty minutes, that's about 160, up to three hours. It should've been because we were late at first anyway, it's also the president's mistake to disable the start of parliament when it was due at 10.00 hours, because when you keep things under control, it means that you can predict future events and prepare moves in that case. Someone didn't prepare that. So, we should have waited for those three hours to listen to the lies, lies, insults, and then respond with those twenty minutes, who would remember, who would know what it was, who the insult was? Nobody would remember it, but it would be a beautiful political, media story where you could certainly make an impression to the citizens that they really chose the wrong side, how the citizens listened that you were talking about us not being the ones who lead Serbia in the right direction. That is why I appeal to citizens to really listen carefully to parliament and to see who is constructive, who is offering new proposals, who can give a legal framework that will bring new investments, new investments in infrastructure, who can continue to insist on the rule of law, who can continue to strengthen and develop our parliament, because it seems to me that only these criticisms and insults on the other hand can be no good for this parliament or for the citizens of Serbia. Even more detailed about Maja Gojkovic, because all that I've been saying is what Maja Gojkovic will represent. You can't tell me I didn't talk about the agenda. She'll stand by these words. During the chairmanship of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, a large number of laws, a large number of meetings of assembly committees, were allowed to be passed, much greater than it was in the previous period. This is really numbers now and it may sound dry and uninteresting, but we have to judge the results of someone's work based on some data, based on some facts. There is a significant improvement in the work of congregation committees. The opposition MPs, who had much more space than they had in the previous period, who had much more seats, much more positions in international delegations, which represent Serbia in the most important institutions of parliament. About the degree of human rights, how much this parliament has really improved the existing level of human rights in Serbia testify first to a number of NGOs, who have just stepped up their work with the Serbian parliament, because they have realised that the Serbian parliament is the right place to make decisions that make the lives of citizens in Serbia. The fact that the non-governmental sector this time, and I'm talking about the highest percentage of NGOs, wants to co-operate with MPs and they want to influence lawmaking and to be part of the legislative process of their suggestions and their proposals, is a fluid that we really should be proud of. Among the opposition MPs there are many colleagues who have also contributed to strengthening the modern form of Serbian institutions and working bodies in parliament. That's what I'd say, two on the Women's Parliamentary Network, which wouldn't exist without a constructive approach. You might say, "What does this have to do with a candidate for National Assembly President?" Because the Women's Parliamentary Network is a symbol of an informal working body and a symbol of some modern European parliamentaryism, where MPs are not locked up in political parties, where MPs really work within their political groups and parties, but MPs have a little wider, should have a little wider political awareness, where they are united by a political idea, a particular goal that will improve the lives of a particular group of citizens, and we, MPs who belong to different parties, because it unites us. That women in Serbia really have a better position, that insisting on women's economic empowerment is a great success in birth budgeting. At this point, many of us may not be aware of this, but you will see in the years ahead, especially in the process of European integration, we will be able to give a positive experience and be part of this positive story, which is also in most European countries. When we think about our budget in a way that we share money by meeting the needs of our citizens, it is wrong to say that we share money half in men, half in women in Serbia. It's not about that. Birth budgeting is about careful budget planning, sharing money so that you meet all the needs of your citizens. They'll see people in local budgets when they plan on how important it is if you ask women in your town what they need. They will not tell you about their personal needs, they will tell you about more kindergartens, about more schools, about the necessary infrastructure and services for children for school facilities, about the rights of marginalised groups, endangered groups, social groups. Let's go back to the story of foreign policy, parliamentary diplomacy, the degree in which parliamentary diplomacy in Serbia was promoted in the previous period, while SNS, in the last two years, and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, led the Serbian parliament. The number of respected, respected high-ranking political officials and statesmen visited the Serbian parliament again bear witness to the statistics and all that information about the Serbian parliament's activities. The control role of parliament is very, very important, it is something that could be heard in the previous days. Can you just calm the MPs down a little bit so I can keep talking, and they're not SNS MPs. So, we can talk about the control role of Parliament from different aspects. When necessary, we will say that the laws are passing quickly and that Parliament has no control role and that we are simply a flow boiler, which is very ugly, and it is not true at all, we will speak in this way, and on the other hand, when it does not suit us, then we will say – well, of course, here is the parliament, here is the obstruction, no one can lead parliament. All things, but all things, especially for us politicians in parliament, can be packed in different forms. The so-called “spin”, here you have several “spina” doctors, about masters and not to mention dozens, and there are many young people who learn it, but I hope that this will not be the most important thing, learn “spina” in Serbian politics, but would put citizens’ interests first somewhere, and then you will be able to achieve the better interest of citizens to choose yourself. They also said in the previous period that laws in the Serbian parliament are not being passed in a good way, i.e. served by the Serbian government. They just go through, they run through parliament, and then we move on. That's not true either, because those who are serious about the laws, the bill's proposals, especially here I appeal to the presidents of the assembly committees, know that the draft laws are offered to every assembly committee interested in considering it. The committee I led in the previous period, for defence and home affairs, so military and police control, has never once encountered a closed door in either the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Defence. The ministers responded to every invitation to come and present their draft laws, I insist on these drafts, it's not about the proposal. So far, it's been a practice for the bill to come to parliament, so we're considering it, the question is whether we can change something or not, but some things have changed. Mr. Chairman, I can't hear myself either, Mr. Chairman, and neither can you hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u248	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u249	Thank you. So the laws are passed in a different way. The draft law comes into parliament, the minister, the working group that prepared him comes, talks with all MPs, not only members of the board of directors, but we fix some things here, but we bring some changes, which are both citizens and the NGOs and the professional public in the previous period. Such serious monitoring of the draft laws and such serious work on the preparation of the law before it came to parliament was not a practice in the previous period, and this is certainly due to the people who run parliament, because under their baton all this is happening. The moment the final draft of the law reaches the assembly board only then we have numerous and serious discussions and debates, and when this bill comes to the agenda of this plenary hall, it seems that this is the last link and perhaps the easiest part of the story, because so far, if we are serious MPs, and I have among the MPs of the opposition excellent colleagues who have had a significant impact on the proposals of the law in the previous four years, as far as I am in parliament, and I am very grateful, I appreciate the work of such colleagues, I think that this is something that we can be proud of. To conclude, I would like to invite all my colleagues, of course, and for colleagues, the Women's Parliamentary Network, all colleagues, especially many young colleagues to join this Parliament, this informal working group, because we can do a lot of good things here. I would like to invite my colleagues to support the motion for Parliament's president, Mrs. Maju Gojkovic. I call, in particular, on my colleagues to be maximumly constructive, polite and to respond to these political challenges, to this instability in the ranks of the opposition that cover up with such haughtiness. We can do much better, and the responsibility for running the state and this Parliament is on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u250	The word is made by the People's Messenger Bojan Pajtic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u251	I'm referring to article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I just thought that the debate was in progress and that Mrs Obradovic spoke in line with good parliamentary customs on the subject, but in the end she did not stand to offend the brutal representatives of the opposition, not only of my parties, but of all the representatives of the opposition by calling them arrogant. We've heard here that the chairman is a technical person, from previous speakers from the ruling party. The chairman is not a technical person, chaired by the MP. There is no technical face among MPs. There are 250 representatives of citizens, representatives of citizens who voted in the elections for this parliament. We heard from the majority representatives that the citizens chose us, that they were elected by the citizens. The citizens have chosen us all. I ask that the votes that have been given for the opposition parliamentary lists be respected. So we are re-entering the opposition-insulting manners, disdaining citizens who voted in favour of the opposition, and it is totally unacceptable. Even at one point, the chairman was said to have shown inability to prepare the session. And that's something that's totally unacceptable, and it's said by representatives of the ruling majority who react in an unarticulized way to what I'm talking about, so it's going to take Dr. Doolittle to translate what they're saying. In any case, the criticisms we heard during the period until 2012 in the conduct of parliament, the glorification of Mrs Gojkovic compared to the period before 2012 is a criticism against counterpart Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who was the president of parliament, who is a coalition partner of the SNS. So, the SPS proposed Parliament's president by 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u252	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u253	I must defend and commend Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u254	Time. (Bojan Pajtic, from place: It is not true that by 2012... ) Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I remind you of the violation of Article 106(1). - that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u256	It's already been a member injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u257	Also, I would add that the topic is not congregation committees or previous successes or failures... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u258	The word is Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 108. Professor Micunovic, please make an effort, extra effort. I understand that in your long and rich career you have not had such a case of violations of the Rules of Procedure and I understand that this has never been seen in parliamentaryism in Serbia so far. I have a constructive proposal that Mr. Martinovic, as a scandal, resigns as a master so that we can choose Mrs. Mayu as president of parliament. I'm sure no one will vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic of the opposition parties. Please don't interrupt me. Please, if only I can just colleagues from the SNS without a pass.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u260	No personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u261	In addition to this proposal, I have another proposal and a finding that Mrs Maya, from the SNS's point of view, is certainly the best solution for Parliament's president, because she robbed the New Sad City Assembly for 400 million dinars in the ATP of Vojvodina... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u262	I beg the messengers, and once again, I appeal that we do not enter great replicas needlessly, that we listen to one another, that we do not interfere... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Appeal a little on them. Please don't throw it at me, answer the word and you'll get it. You're not the boss here, I'm the chairman. Pick up your word, I don't hear any noises about what you're talking about. I draw your attention once again, I know it's hard to stick to a strict subject, and I'm letting it happen, because otherwise we wouldn't be able to have a conversation, sometimes a little bit, but not quite. Second, let's not repeat ourselves. Third, let us not be offended, most importantly, and listen to each other if you want to help me. Who asked for a word? The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u263	Try to cooperate a little, even with the technical ones. Article 27 is very clear, I assume you know the Rules of Procedure as soon as you have embarked on such a significant undertaking as to conduct a constitutional session, so perhaps it is too much to tell you that in paragraph 2, you are intended to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. I would not be wasting my words, nor would anyone from the parliamentary group do so, to the insults and proscrations of MPs who know nothing else to say or about the person of the candidate for Parliament's president. But it is up to you, as the oldest MP here in parliament, with experience equal to the experience of Ivica Dacic and me in this conference, to consider whether, in a democratic manner, to allow Members of Parliament from your political party to be offended by other MPs under the form of injuries. That's one big question mark, why do you allow it? Is it out of fear that someone will take your term before your cause, in fact your decision to step down and stand down for yourself, or because of fear of speaking to the president of your party, so you allow him to compare Alexander Martinovic or the MPs of our MP group, above all SNS, and invites Dr Dolittle to come here who is famous for those who read books, stories or watch children's films for whom he is a doctor? Let me explain, for animals. I thank the honourable MP for mentioning it. Well, that one of the MPs, also your political parties, and I know that you are very sensitive when it comes to other MPs who use a stronger word, says to the candidate that he is a thief. Oh, my God, who's telling me!
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u264	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u265	Of course, the third example was that you called all of us here some kind of bosses or something, and then in response to your pitching as chairman, you said you were the boss. So, please, define yourself whether you will be the same chairman for all the MPs here, or if you will allow yourself such a luxury to enter into history at the end of your political career as the president who allowed one MP to tell other MPs that they were animals... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u266	Time. (Maya Gojkovic, from town:... Thieves, do they need animal doctors or something? If there are no other arguments, then... There's a word... (Maya Gojkovic, from the place: "Yeah, you'll turn it off"? And that's allowed? I'm sorry, you've been talking for a minute longer than planned. (Maya Gojkovic, from town: Thank you. So you gave me an example of how it should be done in the future. You're advising me to turn off the microphones. I've tolerated you for a minute. (Maya Gojkovic, from town: No, no, thank you. And, of course, to vote, to be included in a series of violations of the Rules of Procedure which you have committed in this second of article 27. So we'll vote on all the violations of the Rules of Procedure that the SNS parliamentary group insists on whenever you want, and after midnight, both in the morning and the day after tomorrow and the day after. You have to ask me if I insist. I insist. Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u267	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, in the advertising of the Rules of Procedure by my colleague, Radoslav Milojčić, I could not determine what he wanted to say in his statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, except that in the most harsh way possible, he insulted the candidate for the president of the National Assembly by calling it a thief. In this Rules of Procedure, which you are obliged to adhere to as you chair, Article 103, paragraph 7 states - the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, is required to make a provision for a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions laid down in Article 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or, in another obvious way, to abuse the rights provided for by this article, to give the measure provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. Should I read what's between 108 and 111? For such an insult in the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, a warning is given, and time is taken away from the MP's group. It is a shame that the man who made a billion dinars of debt in the Smederjevska Palanca calls the candidate president a thief. Let him turn around and look at his community.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u268	Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u269	Chairman, first of all, the beginning of a speech following the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1). There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's how Mr. Arsic answered. He went right and then at the end of the insult. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, for God's sakes, they have rules in their Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u270	I assume this was in line with the violation of a member who cares about the dignity of the Assembly. Well, if there isn't, we'll move on. Are there still representatives of the authorities who would like to speak? (No) We're moving on to the speaker list. We have 33 speakers. If there's no big debate, it can be over, at least in the afternoon, and if it is, then we'll see from now on. Milija Miletic answered first for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u271	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, the Svrlig municipality located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the city of Nis. Otherwise, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the SNS list. As a man, I liked to choose our President of the Assembly on Friday, June 3rd, because it was a red letter, because it was the glory of Svrlig and the glory of the city of Niša – Emperor Constantine and Empress Jelena, but probably you, since you may be a great believer, did not continue to work and therefore you interrupted the work of the Assembly on Friday. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I will support Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, as an MP, because I think she's a very good person, that she knows she's running the Assembly, that's what she showed in the previous period. Otherwise, as a man and as a real Serb host, I always respect our wife's first plan, because behind every strong man, behind every strong house, there is a strong woman, and our National Assembly is the most important thing for us, and that is why I think that Maja Gojkovic, and as a man and as a woman, can best lead our Assembly and show it in the best light, as far as our country of Serbia is concerned. I am sure that all of us here in the Assembly will support Maja Gojkovic, and I call on fellow MPs from the opposition because that way we will give maximum support to our women, because from the municipality where I come from, the woman is the president of the municipality. That is why I call on you all to vote on Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, because in this way we will have a stronger and better opportunity for our Assembly to be, as we say, even more transparent than it has ever been. Otherwise, I would take the opportunity now to, as a man, wish all the people of Muslim religion congratulations on Ramadan and wish them all a lot of health and happiness.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u272	The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u273	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I come from Triestenik and I was part of the executive authority in the previous period and in the locale. It was a little unclear to me what was happening on Friday, and it seems to me that today, and that is, above all else, the subject, other than the candidates and the reasons for the proposals that this qualification should have, the president of this House, that is, the report on the work in the previous assembly of parliament, because it is the same person. So I'm going to talk, so I don't break the Rules of Procedure, about the agenda point, and I'm going to turn to two things that, in my opinion, need to be painted by one person who's going to chair this house, which is primarily trust and efficiency. So, as far as trust is concerned, I ask all of you here, and the citizens and the people who sent us here, can Mrs Gojkovic give you confidence and can the citizens of Serbia trust her? Can I trust her because she was a member of the People's Radical Party, the Serbian Radical Party, the People's Movement, and then on the United Regions list, Serbia entered parliament, which did not mind immediately being part of the Democratic Party's parliamentary club and ultimately the Serbian Progressive Party. I'll just read some statements Mrs. Gojkovic made. So, "I closely follow what Nikolic and Vukic are doing politically. There is no important and great quality, new personnel, programs I would be happy to support. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Then, "I would have been an unserious politician if I had returned to the party's wing after I had been expelled from the SRS. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Then, "Serbian Progressive Party is like a soap bubble that will break unless it wins power. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Then, "In the formation of a new ruling coalition we will certainly not support the SNS, the DS is a natural partner of the People's Party. “ it was said in 2012. So, I know Mrs Gojkovic and the presidency of another party I belonged to and listened to from her what she said about the vast majority of the promoters. Dignity tells me I can't do it again, but it wasn't at all affirmative for you who suggested it either. That's why I know most of you today don't truly support this proposal, but you've got a warrant to listen to. So when you do what you're about to do, and that's a proposal to change and amend the electoral law, when there are MPs here to represent the interests of the people, then they'll talk differently. What is the guarantee that Mrs Gojkovic will receive trust and that she will not betray the next day and Serbia, as she has betrayed the parties, as she has betrayed her friends, as she changes parties like socks? So, please, it's one serious trait and a quality politically you need to talk about. But the topic isn't actually a candidate for president, because the explanation is thin and all the time it's about Bodrum, it's about Ukrainian scenarios, it's about government and government results, it's about the candidate himself. As for efficiency, of the 383 laws passed by this home in the previous meeting, 204 was adopted by an emergency procedure, 204 laws governing the lives of Serbian citizens. So everything that's adopted here depends on these laws on how we're going to live both workers and farmers and doctors and teachers. So it's not about quantity, it's about quality. Therefore, the way Mrs Gojkovic acted in the previous assembly of parliament did not justify anything from regaining confidence in the new mandate. The consequences of such laws, and some of them have been changed three times in less than a year, such as the Law on Public Registration, by emergency procedure, by the Law on Energy, the Law on Payments and Pensions, a set of media laws. What, of course, I must say, which may be the most important and what I have seen so far on the side, not from within as a national MP, but as the president of the municipality, it is that this house has been demoted in relation to the government in the previous period and instead of the National Assembly and MPs listening to ministers and government, it has been the other way around here -- ministers and prime ministers have been listening to the MPs whenever they came here, because the President of Parliament has made it possible and has always placed MPs in a subordinate position in relation to the members of the Government. But the brave one thing is that one of the tasks that is the head of the parliamentary group of promoters, Mr Martinovic, said he would expect her to take care of the rule of law, given the fact that in the previous period they faced uptake of a part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in Savala and that we would need a rule of law. Because of this, I, as the People's Movement of Serbia's MP and a member of the SDS parliamentary club, will not support a proposal for a National Assembly president and I will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u274	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have died of fear because Boris Tadic's party will not vote for Maja Gojkovic as National Assembly President, although no one has invited you to do so. A few things, Mr. Alexic. You're saying you're referring to an emergency procedure. The emergency procedure is part of the parliamentary procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, which was brought at a time when Boris Tadic was the president of the state and when your party had a majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is the Rules of Procedure brought by your party, i.e. the party with which you are in the coalition. In an emergency procedure, Mr. Alexic, it's no big deal. In the previous assembly of parliament, 54% of the law, 54% of the law was passed by emergency procedure. With most of these draft laws in the National Assembly for months and months at the official Internet presentation of the National Assembly. Both MPs, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia have had and how time to get acquainted with these bill proposals. You're talking about the Public Records Act. Well, it's true, we were changing it. Because the original law you passed in 2011 was no good. You ruined one part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and then we had to amend the Public Registration Act. As for the merger of the agenda points, before you see a thorn in someone else's eye, first you see a balvana, Mr. Alexic. Here's your session of May 5th, 2010, I guess you know who was in power then. Please tell me what it has to do with this, the Law confirming the agreement on economic and technical co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Kuwait, the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Co-operation in the area of defence, the Law on Beer, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Privatisation, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development, the Law confirming the Agreement establishing the Statute of the European Public Law Organisation, the Law on Confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on International Road Transport of Passengers and Things, the Law on Metrology. I only read some, otherwise, at that session of May 5th, Mr. Alexic, it was combined with 89 draft laws and two decisions. Decision on the selection of Commissioners for the Protection of Equality and Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. Here's how much you respect these so-called independent institutions. So you've combined the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality with the amendments and additions to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly board, and you've previously combined 89 points of the agenda. You combined beer, Kuwait, the Privatisation Agency, the Federal Republic of Germany and military cooperation with her. Ask God what was in this mess, and then you, Mr. Alexic, find yourself invited enough to teach someone a lesson about parliamentaryism and how the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia worked. If this is Mr. Micunovic's practice that we should continue, then I don't think it's going to be very good for most MPs who belong to the opposition's parliamentary clubs. Because if you turn off the microphone after five seconds after two minutes or after you want to give some people a word, and some don't, then your opposition colleagues will say that we're villains, that we're criminals, that we don't give them a word, that we're treading democracy, etc., and that's exactly how you treated Mrs. Maja Gojkovic today. So don't complain afterwards and complain about how the same arches are applied to you. The fact that you are currently chairing, I respect that, but if you now want to introduce a practice that will be valid in this House for the next four years, then, first of all, it will not be good for your parliamentary group, and it will not be good for the parliamentary groups that also belong to that so-called. Although a very colorful opposition block.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u276	He can entertain someone, that you abuse the Assembly of course and don't worry about me anything, but what you're doing is going against the quick completion of our work. You say five minutes, five minutes you answer now, provoking natural replicas, and then don't complain that I'm not throwing out those who don't stick to the agenda, you wouldn't be there for one second if I were to abide by the MPs' strict agenda. So that's what we realized, and now the line on the line is being asked for by Mr. Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u277	The Honorable Chairman, what's been going on, actually, is that I don't teach anyone any lessons first, and I don't want to do that. I have every right as a representative of the people to represent the interest of those people who sent me here and I will say that. Whether someone likes it or not, that's a question for you now. As for 2010 and what happened in the congregations back then, that was six years ago, I'm going to remind you that you've had time here for four years to fix everything that was wrong and change it not to be what it was. So, I hadn't noticed that something had changed. In fact, you were the only one who changed, because by 2012 you were against the EU and against Seselj, i.e. Vucic and Nikolic, and for Seselj. You were someone who absolutely did not support SNS policy, and today you all support and work hard and represent that policy. It's okay if you're making progress, you go forward and I hope it gives some results, qualitatively above all in your group. So, as for the Law on Public Records, not only that law, a set of system laws was adopted overnight, adopted in haste, without public insight, without public debate and so on. You know very well that I don't want to waste my time listing the law. As for one very important thing, please, you mentioned the choice of creditors, during the term of office of Mrs Gojkovic, it is remembered that no word has been given to Commissioner Sabic to speak from this pay phone. So, when the selection of independent institutions was made, you did not give the floor, and that is another reference from the president of the Assembly that you represent should be led by parliament in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u278	Gentlemen, I'm taking a ten-minute break to freshen up and then we'll move on. We'll continue where we need to go. [[After a break.]] Here we go. The replica was answered by Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u280	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't understand Mr. Micunovic why you're doing what you're doing? So, you go into the National Assembly Hall and then you wait, you sit for ten minutes, you don't start working. Secondly, I don't understand why when I'm supposed to get the word you're giving a flat break. You said I insulted someone, provoked, attacked. I didn't say any of that. I just reminded Mr. Aleksic of what the congregation majority at the time was doing, what all the laws had been drawn together, that they had combined 89 draft laws and beer and the Privatisation and Military Co-operation Agency with Germany, etc. What Mr. Alexic doesn't seem to understand or perhaps doesn't really understand is how important political stability is for our country. He was funny about this so-called Ukrainian scenario that has been advocated by some members of the former regime, and I think it is a very serious issue and that Serbia must not allow what is happening to Ukraine to happen, that Serbia must not allow what is happening in Macedonia, what is happening in Montenegro and that it is also important that we preserve political stability in the country, which means that we have a strong government that will be able to control the situation in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. It may be funny to someone, but look what's going on in Croatia. They're not funny at all. They failed to put the government together a month or two ago, but are talking about some new elections. We from the Serbian Progressive Party do not want to allow it, and that is why we said and I did not accidentally say when I proposed and explained the candidacy, here I am ending Mr Micunovic, Mrs Maja Gojkovic, how important political stability in the country is for us from the Serbian Progressive Party. Because there's instability all around us, the foundations of the state are rocking everywhere, citizens don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. We in Serbia don't want to let that happen. That is why it is important for Mr. Micunovic to conduct this session patiently, slowly, without haste, without being nervous, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to allow us to choose the speaker of the assembly after choosing the government, because Serbia expects a difficult job over the next four years. We don't have time to wait, if you have it your business, I welcome it, I have nothing against it, but allow us who want to do our job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u281	I don't know what I'm going to do. I wanted to make sure you got your word first after the break, you resented me for interrupting your exposure. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You don't have to give me any more words.) Please don't interrupt me, now I'm talking. Then sit tight and listen. The people are watching you, I don't care. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You don't have to give me any more words, I'm not angry at all. And he looks at you the same way he looks at me, you can kick me out of the O.R., you don't have to give me another word at all. Let me just tell you. There are MPs here that I respect equally, you don't have some exception, I said ten minutes, I came, but people stop by the coffee shop, toilet, etc. You're forcing me to hold it for exactly ten minutes, when you come that everyone has to come. Therefore, we continue the session. We're finishing this replica, I hope. The next speaker is Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u282	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure to speak on this subject today, on the subject of the election of the President of the National Assembly. I am particularly pleased that the candidate from the Serbian Progressive Party is women and that it is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Mrs Gojkovic is an educated, eloquent and regular person who has shown in her work so far that she can conduct the National Assembly sessions extremely well. In many of the situations we have seen in the previous session, it has shown patience, tolerance, patience, it has shown that it can make wise decisions and include the course of the session in frames that fit this high home. The discussion and relations in parliament have raised to a higher level and when we talk about the first among equals, I must say that Mrs Maya is a person who has a rich political parliamentary experience, but also a high expertise. As one feature that greatly favors this candidate for office is that Mrs. Maya was the first woman in the history of Novi Sad, who led this city, the first woman mayor of Novi Sad, which is a great challenge, a great honor and a great responsibility, and I think it is extremely important. It is the president of the National Assembly who contributes to the reputation of the National Assembly, but also to the reputation of all MPs, and that is another responsibility. He is obliged to make sure that different opinions are heard in parliament, that the discussion is heard, but that it takes place with mutual respect and respect, that he is obliged to make it possible. Mrs. Gojkovic has shown exceptional responsibility and commitment in her work so far, but always dignity. I think it is an extraordinary proposal and I call on MPs to support this proposal by the Serbian Progressive Party in the day to vote. However, much more criticism has been heard on Friday and today at the work of the Serbian Progressive Party, and I must remind that the Serbian Progressive Party in the elections that were held not so long ago, just a month ago, received huge support from citizens for the policy it is conducting. The criticisms also came to the decisions that parliament had made and I must say again, despite the difficult measures that were taken here in parliament, the citizens recognized that this was necessary, that it was in the citizens' interest and that it was only realistic and possible. Those who don't have results in their local environments, so they have to use attack and untrues to secure their alibis, do so to avoid responsibility. However, Serbian citizens are there to judge all of us and in the elections have made it clear that Alexander Vukic's only policy is responsible, realistic and rights. It would be okay if criticism came from those who were never in power. However, when criticism comes from those who have had all the leverages of government 10 or 15 years ago, they have had much less debt and much less problems, and they have done nothing, it is simply hypocritical.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u283	The word is Slavisa Ristic. (Miroslav Aleksic, from the place: Replica. It's past the line. Data's a word. It's late.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, you have had the opportunity to hear from the head of the DSS parliamentary group some of the reasons why we believe and why we cannot vote for candidate Maja Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will refer to this part of the reason why, above all, and at this point, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from Kosovo and Metohija, which is the respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, whose respect and application depend on their fate, because the persistent and infinite story of the community of Serb municipalities that will solve our problem and replace our country, therefore, we have nothing. I hope that some former members of the government, the current MPs, who when we talked about applying the Constitution in Kosovo and Metohija, will not mind saying that as far as applying the Constitution in Kosovo and Metohija, we can only take it under the mouse and walk with it in Kosovo or that we do not stick to the Constitution and the law as a drunk vessel, and I will, and I have an obligation in front of that people, to read again to all of us what is in the Constitution of Serbia. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly and unequivocally confirms that the AP of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of Serbia's territory, that it has the position of essential autonomy within the sovereign state of Serbia and that it follows from such a position the constitutional obligations of all state authorities to represent and protect the interests of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, so all state bodies, including this high home of the National Assembly, as well as the president of the National Assembly who will be elected and all presidents from the previous assembly. I'll remind you very briefly of Article 8. A constitution that says Serbia's territory is unique and indivisible and that the entire territory is subject to the laws of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, the former president of the National Assembly, and today's candidate for this high office, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, has repeatedly violated the country's constitution and laws in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. Ignoring the Constitution and the laws of this country, Maja Gojkovic, a candidate for the National Assembly, refused to apply an article. 86th and 87th. The Law on Local Self-Government, which defines its obligation and its powers to call local elections for committees in units of local self-government in the municipalities of Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan, Leposavic and Zubin Potok, after the government, in violation of all legal regulations, disbanded and units of local self-government and paved the way for the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, including in these municipalities of which I speak, to which the separatist elections, all of us, unfortunately, have convinced us, by putting various pressures on government members that our population, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have gone to the separatist elections. Also, what we resent about the candidate for National Assembly President is that she did not also act on a petition of Kosovo and Metohija citizens who demanded that after the last general elections in Serbia be called to conduct the elections by both the competent authorities in Kosovo and Metohija, on the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, in all municipalities, not only in these four municipalities that I am talking about, to conduct local elections, not only elections for the National Assembly, but also local elections. Also, the Constitution regulates the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, and its president is one of the powers of this Assembly, including the president, is control, control over the government. The candidate for National Assembly has done nothing to prevent the government from implementing an unconstitutional Brussels Agreement, to prevent the government from disowning its institutions at KIM, and on the other hand, to establish institutions so-called. An independent Kosovo. It seems to me that the representatives of the majority in this assembly also agreed that the Brussels Agreement is not a legal act, nor an international contract, and that it cannot produce any legal facts, and in particular the government cannot act on it to shut down Serbian institutions in the KIM area. So the candidate for the National Assembly violated the Constitution and instead of fulfilling his obligation to protect the interests of the Serbian state in KIM, it indirectly protected the interests of the so-called so-called. An independent Kosovo. That's why we can't vote for Maja Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly. I'll just say for a little while, there were words here, without the intention of getting out of the topic, there were words about the KIM elections, about parliamentary elections, whether it was theft, whether it was theft, etc., I'm not going to take time, or to get out of the topic, I'm going to say that at some other time. I'm just saying it wasn't a historic election victory for the SNS, it was a historic theft of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u285	The word is Maja Gojkovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u286	Very short. I don't know if I see it right or if I hear it right. It seems to me that he was speaking to an MP who, by the way, lives in KIM territory. I just have to ask you one single question - how come the institutions of the Republic of Serbia don't work in KIM territory, and you're here? I don't get it. For your scandalous sentence here, the last sentence you said, it would be your turn to tell me – excuse me, and nothing more. I wouldn't comment at all. If you have a little dignity, a little bit of what some don't have, and you will choose from a lot of what I mean, but if you didn't interpret me, you would just say, "I'm sorry, MPs, for saying what I'm saying, who I'm helping and who I'm not helping in KIM territory." And to whom you help these sentences of yours, imagine you and your entire group of MPs. So what are you doing here if our institutions don't work there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u287	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Slavisa Ristić, from the place: Replica. First the Rules of Procedure, then you'll get your word on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u288	Mr. Micunovic, a 107th member of parliament's dignity, has been flagrantly violated now because a short-time speaker said a historic election theft took place in KIM, and he is sitting here. You have to warn him that if he really thinks it was an election theft, then he insults parliament, because he agrees to sit in the stolen assembly, or to go outside and protest. I would really ask everyone who thinks they've been stolen, to come out, to spread tents outside the congregation and protest. Don't let them legitimateize it that way, right, stealing it and selling it for a plate of beans down at the congregation restaurant. They should be ashamed of themselves. I ask you to warn them, because we will no longer tolerate it. Among other things, we will examine how they entered this House, and it will seem to me, to Kim, that no one will vote for them, that's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u289	As I recall, there was one objection on the other hand, that the opposition had committed theft, too, and was able to enter the Assembly by force. Now it's over, and I wouldn't be opening a debate about it. That would lead us in a different direction. The word has the People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u290	Mr. Chairman, just a replica to candidate Maja Gojkovic. I don't want to look back on Mr Djukanovic's exposure. Mrs. Gojkovic, you have no reason, you have no real reason to be angry, but let me answer your question. Nothing means to the Serbs with KIM, or at least it doesn't mean enough that they have a pair and that they will have a few MPs in this high house, if, unfortunately, we no longer have our municipalities, local self-government by the laws of this state, if we don't have courts under the laws of this state, if we don't have many institutions according to the laws of the Serbian state. So that's what I've been talking about, and that's why we think it's, among other things, the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, because this is the highest home, the highest authority of government in one country, and that's why I said we won't and we can't vote. As for the insult, I really had no intention of insulting, but Mrs Gojkovic, both you, and the Government, and every civil servant who, in any way, consciously or unconsciously, participates in the creation of so-called. An independent Kosovo, there is nothing else to say, but to help establish the government of the country in the KIM area.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u292	Thank you. I'm using the line right now because I was mentioned earlier. I don't know what level the gentleman doesn't want to land on. You know, it's always important to take a look at any traffic light game, you can see it. Our result in KIM is seven times stronger than theirs and I don't know why they are constantly calling for KIM, the people there won't vote for them, recognised them, above all, as serious manipulators and people who have worked with Pristina institutions for a very long time, took salaries in the Republic of Serbia and paid for KIM and did not want to vote for them, so they lost in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u293	The word is Slavisa Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u294	Mr. Djukanovic, in any way I didn't want to disrespect you. As for your final presentation, here are the witnesses, the MPs, if we, specifically I, from the Kosovo budget, from the quasi state of Kosovo, have taken any money, here I promise you all of it, bring the evidence, bring all that money home.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u295	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u296	I accept it to be over. I didn't mention a speaker before that he took anything. I don't know if he recognized himself. That's already his problem, but you're all here to witness that the only word I didn't say was that he was involved in anything. Some of his authorities apparently did, while he was there, one of those protagonists of that time. I'm just saying, and that's the most important thing in KIM, our score is seven times stronger than they are, and that's the essence of which the people of KIM vote for and who they recognize can really lead in an adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u297	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u298	The Honorable Chairman, for who knows which time, we appeal to you to lead the order, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly, and yet this debate today is more dignified than it was on Friday. Every time someone offends an MP or the entire National Assembly, you have a duty to react to it. Mr Djukanovic and his entire parliamentary group, both on Friday and today, persistently insult opposition MPs, especially the DSS and its MPs. If they had any evidence, they had four years of power and could have tried anyone with evidence to convict. What did they do? Don't go after anyone at all, judge, or put them in jail, stick labels, bring evidence and do it, and don't just talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u299	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u300	Respect for fellow MPs, Serbia is one country of paradox. By listening to this debate, we can conclude that only in Serbia is the ruling majority who, as she claims, received those large 48% of the votes so threatened in the National Assembly, so many of its MPs, who make up the majority, are exposed to various verbal violence, so that they are miserable and concerned about their fate and have to defend themselves constantly from the evil MPs of the opposition. We just heard in the previous debate, and we can agree that the Assembly is not the Academy of Science and that opinions should be involved in it, but also the Assembly is not a show that you're used to going to, such as "Coffee with Duke" and such topics, where you ask questions yourself and you give yourself answers. You know, there are different political options and different political opinions, and it's normal for you to have both criticism and conflicting arguments and contrasting views. Why are we against the election of Maja Gojkovic? You heard from the discussion, not only the MPs of the Dveri group, but also other opposition MPs, many reasons, but in these last two days they show why they should not support Maja Gojkovic's election as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because SNS is so much ossion and is raised up into its vast majority and absolutely disrespects the National Assembly, it absolutely does not allow MPs of the opposition to conduct a decent and normal dialogue, because they constantly stick to certain labels... (Serb Progressive Party emissaries are getting out of place. Yes, yes, that's right, you throw all the time. So I don't understand why lions are so nervous. The lions need to explain why they have such anxiety that when the opposition MPs speak, they must be thrown away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u301	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u302	I agree. When someone tells you that it's problematic that laws are passed by accelerated procedures, it's not an answer and it's not an argument that the previous government did the same, and the previous government was bad. The main problem of the SNS is that it took over the policy that came on October 5th 2000 and because it continued on the democratic party's fluids to destroy this same assembly. The Dveri parliamentary group will vote against the election of Maja Gojkovic to the president of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u303	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u304	Dear Chairman, I'm using a replica. I'm glad the gentlemen in question are watching that show. They can learn something, thank God. Otherwise, they used to run and beg to be guests on that same show. However, unlike them, at least on my show, a common people, on their televisions or radio stations, may never answer, and everyone must uniformly think as their movement. That's the difference between us and them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u305	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since the second working day is the First Constitutional session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course, I am using the opportunity to congratulate all of us on our choices and to wish all of us success in the work in the next period and period ahead. We believe, however, that during a period ahead of us, in a correct political atmosphere, primarily through dialogue, through a conversation within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we will always find a consensus to come up with a compromise on issues that are vital and essential to the citizens of Serbia, on issues that are of Serbia's interest. The deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Antic, said and I will repeat that once again, the SPS parliamentary club in the voting day will support a proposal for a candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We also supported this proposal two years ago when we elected Mrs. Maja Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are doing this today and we see no reason not to, above all, respecting what Mr Antic said, political correctness and political reality. What I also want to say is that we, as a parliamentary club, are satisfied with the way parliament has functioned and worked in the previous term, but also in the mandate before it. It is important to ensure continuity in the way the RS operates and works. We are pleased with the way parliament has answered those key and essential issues, key and essential requirements that are being put before parliament as the highest body of the legislative authority and we believe that the RS during the previous period and previous assembly, but I repeat, before it, has worked in the best interests of the Serbian citizens. We believe that this assembly, which has been established and which will be fully and fully established, we hope that after this second working day, we also have the ability and sufficient knowledge and willingness to have the RS RS as a symbol of both democracy and efficiency, as well as transparency and the public in the work. Of course, we think it is very important to continue in Serbia the comprehensive core and reform processes. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was a huge support for reform processes in Serbia. The first step in Serbia's reforms has just been done in the RS by adopting system laws here in parliament. The second thing, the RS has been a huge support for the RS government in the realization of what has been declared the goals and principles of the RS government through legislative activity, the adoption of laws, legislative proposals that have been supported on the European path to Serbia, the adoption of legislative proposals that have been supported by one, I would say an economic but socially responsible policy. Each of the MPs and MPs of the opposition and MPs of the previous meeting made their contribution primarily through one dedicated work, and we believe that it will also be when we talk about the current assembly. First of all, we believe that we have a common goal, which is to create an orderly, economically successful, developed and modern Serbia. The SPS Parliament Club expresses its readiness to help and to support the implementation of these objectives. It is not good for us to be only representatives of the political parties to which we belong and that we always have a political approach to making decisions here in parliament. We are convinced that we can set an example for the whole society. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a place where one would say a democratic match, where different opinions can be heard, democratically facing opinions on different topics, different issues. We believe that in this current assembly, both the position and the opposition will be able to do their job and their role, but, above all, having in mind the responsibility that we all have together towards the citizens. This responsibility is common, this responsibility is also responsible for the functioning of the NS RS is not only on the president of the National Assembly that we will choose today, the responsibility for the functioning of the NS is on every MP and position and opposition. We believe that in a dialogue that we will have days ahead of us, we will first and foremost have one key word, which is decency. That we will throw out all the negatives from the public discourse, that there will be one threshold of political tolerance and political culture that we will not cross and that through the democratic confrontation of opinions we will always come to what is the interest of the citizens of Serbia. The point of decency as far as we are concerned is to be honest and responsible for doing our jobs, to be responsible for what has been done, to accept responsibility for mistakes. We felt that today and on the first day of work it was not necessary to conduct an excessive debate, respecting the political reality that the parliamentary majority proposed and proposed candidates for the president of the RS, of course we respect and respect that each parliamentary group should and can express its position, its opinion. It is also important to do this job quickly, to achieve a high level of political consent and to carry out the work for which we have taken responsibility in the next period of time in a serious and responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u307	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u308	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and others, I wish you successful work in this term. All of our mandates and the work of this assembly are under the great shadow of what was going on around the election, the day of the election, the night of elections, the night after the elections, and that's something that needs to be resolved. Before that, regarding the subject we are talking about today, congratulations to the chairman first. I congratulate you that you have enough power to cope with all attempts to continue the devastation of this body that should be the most important state body, the python of democracy in this country. Congratulations on that. Your decision made on Friday is absolutely according to all the rules and it's done well, because we see that today's debate is a little bit better than it was. Serbia's Parliament has the lowest rating of all institutions in this country. So all the other institutions that work in this country, public or some other social ones have a higher rating than this Parliament. It is a matter that we all need to worry about, but it is also the consequence of how parliament has been led lately. It is likely that this status of the worst institution was not eternally present. That is also why I will not vote in favour of the majority proposal for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. It's perfectly natural for most of us to propose to their candidate and it's perfectly natural for people sitting here as representatives of the people to have their own thing. I'm not going to comment on the proposed presidential candidate, her work in the People's Radical Party, the SRS, the People's Party, the SNS, whether the G17, whether ATP Vojvodina, I don't know where everything, talks a lot about her, so there's no need to praise her. There's no need for me to praise her any further. What is important for this parliament is also to determine what happened to the electoral theft. Election theft in Serbia has been going on since 2012, from that bag with some ballots carrying around in front of parliament as evidence of something. This theft continues through the devastation of all institutions that have been and are working in this country, through the fact that media manipulation is the worst in the last 20 years, through the fact that asomahums, "Belgrade on Water", helicopters and all other affairs are present every day without any response. It's the authorities' fault. My message to colleagues in power and to those who feel that way is that you realize that you are not an opposition. For four years you have been responsible, not personally, but the one who brought you to parliament, who put you on the list and who the citizens voted for has decided that you should be the authority in this body and therefore act accordingly. It is not polite for the MPs to insult their opposition colleagues, to be afraid, to be nervous. It's a completely irrelevant thing. I'd like a little message for the opposition colleagues, we have a lot of important things in this House, a lot of things we need to talk about all the time, to point out the fact that what's wrong. But let's not play with demagogy. That restaurant is unfortunate, of course it's rude to sit there right now, but let's do it by saying – we don't want to go to that restaurant. Here, I'm telling you I'm not going to that restaurant for the whole term. Last time I was seven times there was something in the middle of the night. Let's do serious things. The government in Serbia in the last four years has caused so many problems for citizens, for everyone, for the future, for children who have not been born, so there is no need for us to deal with trivialities. Therefore, to do this seriously to you in power, I want you to be free of a heavy obligation as soon as possible, which is to worry about the future of Serbia, and to the opposition to all colors of size and shape, I want you to take advantage of this mandate by preventing the next election from stealing whether it is done in the worst way, physically, whether it is done through manipulations created by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u309	Okay. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I see that you have finally given me your word. I care about blood, I've advertised the Rules of Procedure once, but since I'm not a member of your party, I'm probably not with that ship that sinks every day. It was touching to listen to representatives of the former regime, especially the deputy captain of the ship, the boat of freaks, or not to use that expression they used for themselves. It is very moving to hear about democracy from a man who replaced me as the president of the Assembly in the water management building on October 5th 2007, very moving, but this shows their attitude towards democracy. It was touching to listen to my fellow farmer who is surprised to find the IRS these days, and I warned him on December 14th that he was missing a 138,714 bottle of wine, worth 89 million dinars from a lager of goods from a company called "Empres". The document is here, the Agency for Business Registers, the record of this company, which claims that my farmer embezzled 89 million dinars, or 138,714 bottles of wine. It's not wine from that vineyard.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u311	Please stick to the subject after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u312	What topic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u313	We're choosing the President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u314	This time to make it up to me. Wine must be a toast to the selection of the president of the National Assembly, and he didn't even produce for honor. So, not one drop. These are imported wines. He's got philosophy - better introduced than produced. Speaking of the president of the National Assembly, that's the fruit of democracy. Democracy is, among other things, vote counting. That's how political truth is determined. It says that the SNS has the right to the president of the assembly, that it was the will of the voters, that political truth has been established in this way and that we will do so today, and that political truth will be changed, a new one will be established when a new majority comes and they will choose their president based on that political truth. I must remind you that this is not about the President of the Assembly and I hope that Mrs Gojkovic will not allow the next situation – ladies and gentlemen, there are countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without the state and don't play with the idea that you will win power in any other way. Democracy is a process of maturity. Democracy is my way of winning power after the election. For you, democracy is conquering power without choice. So I'm saying that there are countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without a state and today when we pass, when we come out past Karadjord and Emperor Dusan we need to know that it's not democracy to break into RIK during the night led by the American Embassy advisor, it's not democracy to jump off a balcony on a RIK member, it's not heroically occupied the National Assembly's menu, scare off coffee cooks, steal menus...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u315	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u316	Democracy is a process of maturation and we must guard the state, and I hope Mr. Chairman that you have not run out of time, but your party has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u317	According to the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u318	Article 106, 107, 108. The previous speaker talked about a lot of topics, at least what we managed to figure out, but none had anything to do with the agenda point. That's the first thing. As for the headlines of Saturday and taxes to the state, we've seen it 200 times, I call on you, all the competent state authorities to do their job as soon as possible and to punish anyone, even if it was me for anything that had nothing to do with respect to the law, rather than tax evasion. A previous speaker, I am now told by people who were then in parliament, in 2003, that that was when the DOS government MP also asked for his stolen car to be registered to vote for the budget. It's not, of course, and it's just one of the mass of things. With silos, I don't know what it was, but it's not a subject. That's what I'm telling you, future president, introduce order to parliament. Let's practice a little bit. Two years running after me. Teach him to say something that makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u319	Mr. Zivkovic, stay out of the controversy. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Who answered? Replica? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u320	Mr. Chairman, at least you've had enough experience to have no replication on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. My former farmer colleague, known for the fake hens in Pupovac's yoghurt solution, is instead of injuring the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u321	What's the member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u322	I'm advertising Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u323	What's the member, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u324	Well, I say Article 103. In contrast, Article 103, one, two, three, four, Article 104, which defines the right to replication and the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think he deliberately abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that the consequence, Mr. Chairman, is the ZIK's virus, but after that heisting of the fake chicken in Pupovac, there was a overlap and intelligence and so came the "Zoka Virus". The first one reduces the heads, and the other one emptys the inside of the head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u325	He has the word Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u326	Ponicu, the Movement "Enough Has Been" will not vote for Parliament's president. The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. If you're gonna throw, I'll wait for you to finish. So the "Enough" Movement will not vote for the president because of this culture in the National Assembly. The People's MPs of the SNS are getting it. I beg the President... Because of this culture in the National Assembly where it is thrown, where it is spoken completely beyond the agenda, where MPs are insulted, I am not just talking about MPs from the ruling majority here, and I am talking about opposition MPs. We really need to stick to the rules. We will insist, once the candidate for president of the National Assembly is elected, as we expect it to be elected, we will insist on strictly respecting the Rules of Procedure, strictly respecting the Rules of Procedure, means that it really speaks of the agenda point. I could also talk about everything and everything, but it's not a topic and we really have to stick to what's the topic. So if someone wants the subject to be, for example. election theft, then there is a business way that it can become a topic. If someone wants "Savavala" to be a theme, there's a way to set it up. If someone wants to talk about thefts, there's a way to make it a topic, but while the subject is what it is, we need to stick to that topic. We will insist with the future president of the National Assembly that we stick strictly to the subject, to speak without insult, not to throw away. I repeat, this applies to both the ruling majority and the opposition, there must be one archaic. To make jokes, to throw each other away really doesn't belong to this home. I hope that we will succeed in achieving this new political culture, that we are really dealing with things that are essential to citizens and that if we think that something should be a topic, that it should be on the agenda and we should talk about it. It will be our contribution to the assembly of this National Assembly. We'll talk to the president about it. This is something we expect from her, even though we won't vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u327	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragomir Karic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u328	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I am listening to a fellow MP who is saying that nobody should be hurt, that they should not be thrown away, I call on Article 106 to speak exclusively on the subject. What is the theme of choosing the president of the National Assembly of Serbia if we mention "Savamalu" and other similar examples? It wouldn't be any problem, Mr. Radulovich, if you said everything you wanted, whenever you wanted and whenever you wanted, but first you set your example. You started Friday with restaurants, with coffee, with a price, to sort of get us some rest because it doesn't stand. I want to say, as far as the future president, the SNS candidate, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, is one brilliant person. I had the honour of being in Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's delegation several times, in Russia, Iran, Iraq, Morocco, Belarus, etc. I must tell you in the opposition, and to all citizens, she was worthy of representing the Republic of Serbia, she was worthy of representing the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u329	Mr. Karic, you've applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but now you're talking about a candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u330	Why? I'm just setting an example, here's the end. It's no problem. I really listened patiently. I wanted to answer precisely that these arguments they make here do not stand when it comes to the choice of candidate Maja Gojkovic. Normally I'll vote yes, and I deeply believe they'll vote yes, because we should choose their vice presidents, so we'll see how it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u331	Your time is up. My point is that what you're saying is a replica, you're entitled to that, too, if you want to, but when you apply for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then certain members must be injured, but okay, let's move on. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have heard from my colleague, who, I may say, is a former solver, because he was also a minister, that he will ask us to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure and not a word of man has said about a candidate for the president of the National Assembly. Let us look at what the National Assembly is and what it says in our Constitution, Article 98: “The National Assembly is the most representative body and holder of the constitutional legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. ” When someone says and starts their discussion – I hope that my fellow MPs from the former regime, from the opposition, know that the National Assembly is the place where laws are passed, where laws are held, and that often MPs want to send a political message, so I wonder why representatives of the former regime have written one of these Rules of Procedures on the work of the National Assembly, where they simply wanted to silence those who do not think like them. About how they ruled Serbia and how they ruled in municipalities, I see that they are no longer the former regime just here, in the National Assembly, but I also see many presidents of municipalities from the AP, from the Serbia border as former presidents of the municipality or former presidents of the province government. As they lead the debate here with us and while insulting MPs who do not think like them, they must be aware that we have one judge, which is the citizens of Serbia in the elections. As much as you'd like to pretend that there was an election robbery, at best for you, each of you individually has 10 times as many votes. I hope you're aware of that, too. The job of the president of the National Assembly is very sensitive that he can maintain the work of the National Assembly in the subject of the agenda, and to meet with MPs who want to send a political message. It is not true that nothing has changed here in the Assembly since 2012, much has changed. It is not true that only the laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been passed, the Law on Public Procurement, which is a parliamentary law, is not true that only representatives of the former regime or opposition were given notices, but I, as president of the largest parliamentary group to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as an authorised representative of the bill, received a warning. The president of the National Assembly was then Nebojsa Stefanovic. It never happened during the former regime. It is not true that the National Assembly listens to certain ministers tell it, so I have two examples. One example is when one of the ministers kept refusing one amendment, to a very important law. He said it explicitly more than once – I don't accept it. The MPs also showed the minister where the place is and how the law is passed. It's not true that we've listened to other ministers as well. For example, we had one law that was very bad, rude, thieving, bankruptcy law from 2013, which we MPs didn't even want to discuss because it wasn't written in the ministry or in the government, but was written in the Chamber of Banks. They're not politicians without brains, as someone wants to introduce us. We can think, we have our integrity and we vote the way we think it's best, not the way someone wants it. There were stories about the law being passed, whether it was an important number of laws. Perhaps it is, perhaps not, something else is more important – the results these laws have for the state, the economy, the citizens. This assembly in the previous meeting had passed many laws and we had a judge, ladies and gentlemen MPs, in the citizens' elections. The citizens said these laws were good, unequivocally. He's going to have a candidate for the National Assembly, a lot of work, and a lot of hard work in the coming period, because he's going to have to worry that there's no law in the Assembly called the Constitutional Charter, where in the most harsh way the SRJ Constitution is violated. Well, those other constitutionalists, who allegedly care about Kosovo and Metohija, say -- well, this constitution was not respected in Montenegro, what would we in Serbia respect? Does this mean that if the interim Kosovo institutions do not respect the Constitution of Serbia in Kosovo, we do not need to respect it here in Serbia? The future president of the National Assembly will also have to take care of the fact that some of the former regime's political parties feel they have a monopoly to introduce Serbia into the EU, but they are the former regime, so they will not have the satisfaction. The future president of the National Assembly will have a lot of obligations that some parties also consider to have a monopoly on co-operation with the Russian Federation and China. Co-operation between the Russian Federation and Serbia has never been better and bigger than today. And they had a chance while they were in power, because the former regime, to reach that level of co-operation. They will tell us here about military neutrality, and the first to ratify the NATO Pact Agreement in 2004 or 2005. Then they will demand that the President of the National Assembly act or not act in accordance with Article 114. The Rules of Procedure, in which it is said, is the People's Messenger to whom a reminder has been given, shall be fined at a fine of 10% of the basic salary of the Messenger of the people. This is very rarely applied in the previous meeting and in 2012 to 2014, but I remember very well who put this provision into the Rules of Procedure. I think his name is Dragan the Martian. I think it was May or June of 2001. Then those who have inserted such provisions into the Rules of Procedure say that the Rules of Procedure are not democratic and that the former and future president of the National Assembly does not respect the Rules of Procedure, or are calling on him not to respect the Rules of Procedure because it is undemocratic. I think this assembly will have a lot of challenges for the president of the National Assembly, for the representatives of the former regime, for the opposition, and for how we behave in the National Assembly, citizens will decide in the elections. How important is the seat of the president of the National Assembly and the fact that it was happening on Friday, and for one good deed today, where we have seen an example of how it should not be managed and chaired by the National Assembly. Because if someone thinks they can use the Rules of Procedure to call us SNS thieves, frauds, criminals and not answer them, or even if we don't throw them away, they're wrong. And don't, gentlemen, identify us with you, because if you were better than us, the roles would be replaced. I wouldn't look across the street at the former presidents of municipalities, former ministers and former regimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u333	Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u334	And then the replica. I'll remind you of article 106. – the agenda point is discussed. What's really important is that we finally learn, is that we can't talk this long without talking about the agenda point at all. That has to change. I could also continue to have tirads about one, the other, the third, the fifth, the tenth, but we need to talk about the agenda point, and that's the election of the president of the National Assembly. All other opinions, Kosovo and Metohija, the EU and all other things, and whoever won, and whoever didn't win, really doesn't matter. We're here to discuss the election of the president of the National Assembly, and we should stick to that. This isn't that complicated. As for the Rules of Procedure and all that, if anyone wants to change the Rules of Procedure, they need to change it. As long as he is this Rules of Procedure, he should be respected. Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u335	Here you go, Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u336	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107. Of course, I refer to Parliament's dignity, because the short-time speaker who pointed to us on the breach of the Rules of Procedure gave us moral lessons, and the first one was not holding the agenda when he spoke. He absolutely talked about everything except Mrs. Gojkovic's candidacy. Well, it was your turn to warn him, first of all, that he's going to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and then gain the right to teach someone moral lessons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u337	Can I take a joke and relax the situation for once? When the kids were playing football in Lenin's park, the ball flew through the window while Comrade Lenin created it. Then Comrade Lenin took the ball, took it out to the window, and said, "Well, don't do this again." A commentary, you see what humanism is, gave them back the ball, and he could shoot them. So you're warning me all the time that I didn't shoot who, is he here because of the words he used. I thought it was enough not to waste your time. No one adheres to the subject, and I know it, the passion of struggle, etc. Therefore, I ask you once again not to report every hour for the violation of the Rules of Procedure which someone is not in the subject, or for using the word for which I should have interrupted him, or for punishing someone or for kicking him out of the O.R. That's not what I'm gonna do. I just want to appeal to be civilised and get the job done. Thank you, if you cooperate on this. Now he has the word Gjorge Vukadinovic. You have very little time left, one minute and 10 seconds left, so concentrate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u338	For a minute and 10 seconds, I hope that colleagues from the ruling majority will have at least so much patience. I listened carefully, I didn't throw it away, but it's really unusual that those who have all the time in this assembly, and as promoters, and in the space they've received, are looking for even the right to harm the Rules of Procedure and, on that basis, trying to steal time, and then complaining that they don't have enough time. I think the right of the assembly majority is to choose and propose the president of the assembly and that's fine. What's wrong is the way you wanted to do it. Secondly, I think what some of my colleagues have suggested, i.e. resented Mrs Gojkovic, is actually her greatest advantage. As a handicap, she was led to change many parties. I think that is precisely the experience in various parties through which what is potentially qualified to do its job well, much more than being just a member of the ruling party, or SNS. And the last thing, the appeal to colleagues from "Enough" and the Democratic Party to give up their rights, from this endowed right to choose their vice president, because we see that it will always get on their noses and will constantly be referred to them as... Some kind of handicap and mercy... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u339	Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u340	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, to me, they're a mother and a complete family from Negotin. I'm sorry that I haven't learned in my life, I might understand the previous speaker better, but maybe Mrs. Gojkovic had her own party and changed one, but she didn't change the nation, which is something terrible, someone changed the nation to join the Assembly, here's a list of "None of the answers offered," even falsely signed with the interest of a political analyst, I don't know what the interest is and how that qualification is achieved, but however it is finally, the other day he admitted to us that he was a Serb so he came here to talk, little Vlah, a little Serb, but whatever, we hope that we'll figure out what's finally to the end. What is very important for Parliament's president, you know, when the government changed in 2012, parliament had 7% of the support, today there is about 16%, is not that God knows what, or ideally, since this is our most legislative body, it paints what the people are, there are representatives of the people, but still by the work of Mrs Gojkovic, and previously Mr Stefanovic, it has doubled, it has doubled its popularity, which means that citizens are still beginning to assess the positive work of parliament, and I believe that in a future period and how to contribute to this institution to honor and respect as it deserves it. Because this is where citizens choose those who represent them. People knew who our speaker was and in the previous term and absolutely supported us with 1,820,000 votes, and therefore Mrs Gojkovic was highly evaluated and therefore there is no reason not to continue to do this job. I didn't notice that she broke the law anywhere, or the Constitution, or anything. On the contrary, I can even say that she was more rigid towards us from the majority, so we got all the notices here, so we were denied the word, so much tolerance was even sometimes, and it irritated us how tolerated she was to the representatives of the opposition, but we hope that she will continue to do so, because she is still someone who comes out of the majority and respects democracy, unlike some previous parliament presidents who knew to exclude the entire parliamentary group from the assembly, the whole parliamentary group, even some people who didn't even attend the session. We also had the presidents of parliament who tolerated you having as many as 300 MPs in the assembly because the Constitutional Court was magically returning the mandates, what was it all about, so we had at one point 300 MPs, 50 more, 308 actually. You know, Mrs. Gojkovic never happened at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u341	Themes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u342	Here's the time, so I absolutely support it. The theme is Mrs. Gojkovic, her work. If it's time, no problem, Mr. Micunovic, I'm not gonna... I know I have time, but I actually want to give the opposition an argument, and it's still tolerance on our side. Therefore, the full support of Mrs. Gojkovic to continue to do her job, in a much better way than perhaps you are now doing, Mr. Micunovic. The SNS parliamentary group will absolutely vote and give full support to Mrs Gojkovic to sit in that place where you are currently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u343	Is it by the Rules of Procedure or is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u344	So, it turns out that you couldn't last a minute and 20 seconds not to start the attacks. Article 107, dignity. Gentlemen, that is where every performance is measured, every statement by Mr. Djukanovic, and yet always the attack on the dignity of the National Assembly. So, a minute and 20 seconds couldn't take it. This is also the measure of democracy, respected colleagues, the attitude towards the minority, the parliamentary and political minorities. As for the story of dignity, I won't say it all, but a few MPs rule the majority, each by their every appearance, every speech, every word, insults dignity, insults the minority and, as I would say, intersects the branch on which they sit. I know that a very quick day will come that he will not be ashamed of himself, but will tear up membership cards like the JUL or DS membership cards, so will the SNS' membership cards. Finally, the last sentence, There's a lot of fake patriots here... [[off microphone]] Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u345	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u346	The Honorable Chairman, I am advertising the violation of Article 106, and the violation of Article 103, because when you gave the speaker of the past to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, he pointed to everything except that breach of the Rules of Procedure. Maybe we'll tear up the membership cards, but we won't change the nation. We will be Serbs, and we will not change the nation and become Vlasi because of the mandate in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u347	Please, this is about the next one. When you report to the Rules of Procedure, it can't be a replica, but you just call a member who's hurt, and when you report for a replica, you have the right to be mentioned directly or indirectly, and then you answer. So it's important that I know when you're answering what you're answering for. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u348	Articles 103 and 104. Mr. Micunović, you are the man who spent 26 years in this House, and before that you were a professor for at least 30 years. You are the expert of democracy and you know the procedures. Article 104, last position - the replica lasts two minutes. Why are you shutting down Mr. Vukadinovic for a minute and 30 seconds? If it doesn't allow most of us to say what we have as arguments, at least let the time not be short for you. We expect it from them, but don't expect us to be short of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u349	I said, for the Rules of Procedure, you must specify a member and say what is hurt and do not enter the replica. The replica is therefore another problem, an intervention, and then, of course, you can turn directly and say what you want to say. So, so that we don't have a formal piece around it, and usually a lot of people don't stick to it here, and then they say, "injuring the Rules of Procedure," and they say, "speech or vice versa." We have to sort of separate it and adopt it as an attitude. So, Mr. Vukadinovic, what are you applying for, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u350	Article 106(2) – you are not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in another way. Every address I've ever made has always been followed by a few more, but all a few opposition colleagues have been followed by an incredible throw and distraction by speakers. I didn't call on this member every time, but I could, gentlemen and colleagues, keep that in mind. I can take it, I can and can't talk, if it'll make you happy, but don't do it. Like I said, you were, and maybe you'll be a parliamentary minority once, this destroys the institution. What you're doing is destroying democracy. You're the first person to accuse someone of being falsely introduced here or of being falsely snuck in. I haven't changed my national definition. Some have changed their political delicacies, so I guess that's how they react. As I said, there's a lot of fake patriots going on, some of them faked themselves as patriots, falsely portraying themselves today as Europeans, and rich and individual, when I look at them like this, they're probably also faked as Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u351	Please, let's move on. The word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u352	President, believe it or not, I want to protect you. Article 27 of Article 2 says the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs of the opposition to let the chairman, Dragoljub Micunovic, lead this session. Don't harass him because whenever you pick up the Rules of Procedure, it means he's got something wrong. Learn today when we finish this session or tomorrow, all new MPs will study the Rules of Procedure a little bit, see what the replica is, how long it takes, what it means to hurt the Rules of Procedure and who can hurt the Rules of Procedure. Yesterday and today, only Dragoljub Micunovic can hurt the Rules of Procedure. Don't harass a man. It's not easy for me to defend him, but I know what it's like to sit up there and wave all the time - injury to the Rules of Procedure, abuse this book and then replicate to the MPs of others. And you have little time because you have few votes, and the statistics are inexorable, your time is up for this list. Wait for the next item of the agenda. Thank you. I won't ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u353	I have no comment, but that's why I give my word to Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u354	The chairman, honourable MPs, MPs of the Serbian Movement Dvora will not vote for the Maya Gojkovic election, the president of the National Assembly, for the reasons already mentioned here. I'm only asking for patience. Since this is the first time I've ever been a member of this body, the right to tell you, I'm surprised by the behavior and by the representatives of both the government and the opposition. This reminds me of one market, to tell you the truth, and it is no wonder politicians are the most hated interest in Serbia. Let me tell you, that's the attitude of the people, and don't be surprised if people come with sticks to drive us all out of the congregation for this kind of behavior. That's my observation about these two days. As for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, she didn't explain or deny today her statement during the campaign. I believe that there is a possibility of being a lapus, but I would ask Mrs. Maja Gojkovic here today, or in some statement, to explain what it meant that the Government of the Republic of Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia would work closely together. As I come from the space of Vojvodina and northern Serbia. For all the reasons mentioned here, we believe that Maja Gojkovic does not have the political authority to be president of the National Assembly, and for this function during a period that will be Turbulently this home deserves a much stronger political personality. Also, we believe that because of this lack of authority, Maja Gojkovic will not be able to restrain the MPs and will not succeed in seducing order, so that this home can normally ambush. That is my observation, and I therefore believe that Maja Gojkovic should not be president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u355	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u356	I haven't given you my word yet, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u357	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u358	Yeah, but I haven't given you my word yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u359	All right. Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u360	Here, it should come out here that you asked for a word, and then I give you my word when it comes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u361	That's right. Mr. Chairman, can I have a word based on the replica? I've been mentioned several times in a rather ugly context, if you could give me a word. Here I will accept every decision you make. Can you give me back these few seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u363	Just one thing, you were wrong when you entered this House and you imagined the President of Parliament as someone who would control the MPs. You have also offended your function as well as all your colleagues sitting in this House, as MPs do not need to be restrained. I'm not even gonna try that. Don't let anyone vote here for me, please, if you think you're going to choose a person to control someone. So you're in great error. And let me tell you about the lapus lingua I said in the election campaign. Lucky for you, it never happened to you. Everything you said, your voters were worth 4.99 with some statistical error, because you were saying everything you thought. I've had a lapus lingu of fatigue. It doesn't matter, but the voters, or Serbian citizens, understood me fantastically. In Vojvodina, too, we received an independent list of Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins over 50% of the votes. So you didn't have to understand me at all, and as many of us as there are here, I understand the people, of course, that's probably the most important thing, and how many of us are here and whether we are well understood by Serbian citizens is saying this number of MPs. So don't worry at all, and as far as restraint is concerned, I promise I won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u364	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to complete a constitutional session as soon as possible, but as long as it is up to you and me. Secondly, now in accordance with that same article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Dear MPs, we continue our work. The first speaker is Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u366	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been constituting since Friday and we've been breaking an infamous record of the establishment of the Serbian National Assembly. The reason for that is, above all, in our electoral law, which is a little bit odd, I can't say abnormal, but in any case unfair and unfair. It is unfair because censorship is needed when one party goes 5%, and when two, three, four go into the coalition again 5%. Thus, the democratic principle here is absolutely not respected. Say in Romania and Hungary, if you go alone as a party you need 5%, if you go with two parties in the coalition you need 10%. In Slovakia or Czech Republic, if you go alone 5%, if you go to a coalition of two 7.5%, if you go three 15%. If that democratic principle applied to us across the street, there would be no one. But it's not just that. The problem is, you can't know who in those coalitions is how many percent of the vote comes in. There may be someone bringing 0.5%, some 1%, some 2%, and entering the Assembly here, and you have on the lists of parties that went alone, took 2.3%, and stayed out of the possibility of having their own representatives here. The second addition is that when these parties get in and out of the coalition they pick up votes from their relatives' ropes and a wider neighborhood or extended relatives and a narrow neighborhood and add something at night that is accumulated and shared with each other in a store like a flea market and cross the censorship. They come here and they're full of faith in themselves and how they convinced themselves that I don't know, and right away, they're starting to make us an ambience that reminds us more of the "white ship" ambience and "cellisus" syndrome, where all that remains is to know who is among them, Hadji Zdravkovic, and who is Sojic. It doesn't give a very good atmosphere here at all in the work of this assembly, and that's why we've been building up here as long as we've been establishing ourselves. But in any case, in the next period, it should do everything possible for this electoral law to be amended. You know, however, some parties that have a political vision should enter this Assembly, which have some political agenda, not that the basic idea should come into this party and start talking about how sweet the cabbage is or how sour pickles are in the congregation restaurant. So, I think this debate that was held Friday by the opposition and what was said only points to Andric's when he said in one of his books – In that house they say they have a son, but they don't show him. There was only an ambience here to show the opposition in this way. Otherwise, if we are talking about Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, it would be quite easy to make that decision in some way because that woman was already in one term the president of the Assembly and we could assess this work and the very assessment of the work could be a guide to whether she deserves it or not. In that sense, you have to answer, let's say, four questions. First question, what was her relationship with the MPs, and how did she conduct congregation meetings? Second, how much did she contribute to some uplifting of this congregation or how much did she contribute to the control role of this congregation when it comes to government? Third, how much has it contributed to the apparent growth of Serbia's reputation and popularity on the international agenda? And fourthly, how much of this assembly's work has contributed to the reforms that the Serbian government has initiated and that have produced phenomenal results, which everyone agrees, how much has this Assembly contributed to with Mrs. Maja Gojkovic? When it comes to the first question, whether and how she treated herself and how she conducted the sessions and treated the MPs, I can say that she was extremely correct, worthy of leading this Assembly and showed the exact same arches and when it came to MPs of the post, that she had shown a high degree of tolerance and a high degree of respect for everyone, even for those people, and here she showed exceptional restraint in which I particularly commend her, when some MPs were even brutally and verbally aggressively performing and insulted her during the assembly sessions. This work and the manner it performs in any case has raised this National Assembly's rating, although it is very difficult given the transparency and openness of the work of the National Assembly, and I argue that all institutions in this country would have far less rating if they were to perform as transparently and openly as they do here in the case of the National Assembly. As far as international co-operation is concerned, Serbia today has more than ever the world's reputation, the largest possible. Serbia has an open door both east and west. Serbia has finally provided its place in the sense that it is highly respected and appreciated and represents a stability factor here in the Balkans, a country where everyone points to the finger as an example of how from one country that was in the abyss, which was in conflict with itself, which was destroyed and devastated, rises from the ashes like Phoenix. In this sense, the parliamentary diplomacy led by Maja Gojkovic, along with all the parties involved, certainly contributed to the rise in Serbia's reputation and status in the world. As last and perhaps most important, and that is how much this National Assembly has contributed to reforms in general in Serbia. These are reforms both economic and political and social and moral and spiritual, general reforms of a country that finally succeeds and returns its place in Europe. Certainly this work of this National Assembly, the adoption of about 200 laws, of which these laws were all in the role of Serbia's progress, the improvement of international position and the path towards Europe and the EU, is also credited by this Assembly. These laws have contributed to a billion and 800 million investment in this country. They helped make 120,000 people employed in 2015. They contributed to the great construction of infrastructure, contributed to development and change in all spheres of life. Because of all this, I think it is enough to state the reasons that Maja Gojkovic absolutely deserves to continue running this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u367	Thank you. He has the word Vojislav Seselj. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u368	Ladies and gentlemen, I felt hurt and offended because Branislav Blazic said the law was different, so that all the opposition benches would remain empty. That's not true. Serbian radicals never wanted to enter any pre-election coalition and are therefore proud. And it's the only honorable behavior in parliamentary democracy. But if such a relationship had been in a law that would have prescribed for the two-party coalition census 7%, then 9, then 11, etc., then the coalition led by the Serbian Progressive Party would need a centurion of 60%. You have 12 parties in one coalition and look at how many percentages you won – 48%. Divide it by 12, so by party 4%. On average, none would be in parliament. Don't play with that stuff, it doesn't work for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u369	There is a word from MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u370	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished candidate Gojkovic, I am talking about Mrs Gojkovic as the only candidate for the National Assembly. By old custom, of course, I'll stick to the subject of the agenda. It is not just about the idea of Mrs Gojkovic being the only candidate being elected to her post, it is about the preservation of the legislative authority, which has been questioned. It is about the survival of a central political institution in Serbia, which just at the time of Mrs Gojkovic's chairmanship, suffered her own collapse. After all the laws that were passed, Lex specialises, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Conversion, parliament has served more often as a front for a few not to end up in prison, but as a political institution that has worked in the interest of citizens who have received their legitimately elected representatives here. I think it is a practice that is very bad – that certain laws that are in the interest of a few at the top of the government are voted quickly, and that one day when institutions are free of fear and strengthen themselves, so the suspects come before the country's judicial authorities, they can say, "You know what, MPs voted on it. Ask the Messengers of the people. It's not our fault we stole by law." That's what this congregation turned into. The attitude towards the executive government, the attitude towards the Prime Minister, towards the government of the Republic of Serbia, towards the ministers, was subjective and that is little to say. The attitude towards the opposition was vengeful, at least. The relationship to the ruling majority was full of protection, that it was Mrs Gojkovic who established the rule of democracy that was still the only one in the "Life Farm" of George Orwell, where everyone allegedly is equal, but, behold, my God, some are "equal" to these others. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: What is this? ) There they cease to exist constitutional principles, and when they do not apply, then there is no rule of law, and when there is no rule of law, then you can adopt laws, because you have an undeniable majority, whatever you want, but then citizens will seek justice outside institutions and that is what is bad, that is what brings us back to the 1990s, and that is not good for Serbia. The point is that executive power is well controlled. That's exactly what went missing in the previous period. How many times has the prime minister been last Thursday of the month and answered the questions of the MPs? All several times, and then the president of the Serbian Parliament, then Mrs Gojkovic, was able to ask more prime ministers than the MPs can ask the Prime Minister. It is also a practice that is bad for the Serbian parliament. At the core of every authoritarian personality, every media darkness, every dictatorship, lies fear, fear of argument, fear of asking questions, fear of truth. They then fear the National Assembly and the People's Messengers. For this reason, I would ask Mrs Gojkovic not to fear the executive authorities, although fear has shown countless times so far. We will not vote for Mrs Gojkovic, and that is the position of the DS Parliament Club and my personal one, but I want to underline one thing, we will always stand in the protection and defence of the National Assembly president if it holds to the dignity of the National Assembly, or Parliament, if it holds to the dignity of the MPs, if it manages to make the Serbian Parliament a central political institution, as it does, as it is guaranteed, as the Constitution and the laws guarantee it. If Mrs Gojkovic is afraid of the Prime Minister, it is best to thank her colleagues honestly today and not resign, but to stay out of the race for the National Assembly president, because we think it would at least be fair and fair to those citizens who have trusted the MPs, even the ruling majority. This is what I end up with. The attitude towards Professor Micunovic in the last few days, both media and my colleagues, was at least vulgar. He was not supported by either political, domestic education, without any respect for age, according to experience, according to what Professor Micunovic, as the oldest chairman of the Assembly, did in not only 26 years, but much longer, when it comes to the development of democracy in Serbia. I don't want it to be that way, and I'm afraid it will be, but I don't want this two working days to actually be known as the lights of Serbian parliamentaryism and democracy. I call on Mrs Gojkovic, who undisputedly has the majority to be elected to the post, not to allow it, first of all, by her own actions, by respecting the law and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and by not allowing the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be an authority that no one controls, not to allow the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to put all MPs in his own pocket every time he comes to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what citizens, first of all, don't deserve. It has a bad effect on democracy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u371	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to congratulate everyone on the verification of the mandate, especially the new MPs, especially the MPs whose first term is this, and to wish, above all, successful work. Today is a very important day, the day we end, i.e. we continue the process of establishing parliament, establishing the National Assembly as the highest representative body and the highest legislative authority of Serbia, as the Constitution requires. The election of the president of the National Assembly, therefore, the first among 250 MPs, is certainly something of great importance for our country, as a step towards establishing and establishing other authorities in the country. The Serbian Progressive Party and other parties that were on the "Alexandar Vukic – Serbia Wins", they suggested, as we heard, Ms Gojkovic as a candidate for this post. Now, if we move forward, we must stress, although it is already said, that the voter list led by the SNS, the electoral list "Alexander Vukic – Serbia wins", is the absolute winner of these elections and therefore, as a logical consequence, is that today we are proposing the president of parliament. There's nothing to argue about. I'd add that we're dating the best possible candidate, dating the strongest candidate. Mrs Gojkovic showed in her previous session that she is, she has shown that parliament can gain weight, it has shown that work levels and the quality of parliament itself can be raised. I am deeply convinced that it will remain that way in the next period. Of course, not everyone will vote for Mrs. Gojkovic today. Some have declared that they will not vote, some will be against it, and who will be against it? Those who are against raising, I say, political and parliamentary cultures in Serbia will not vote. In addition, some MPs who are on their list have shown in the last term that they do not care about raising a culture of work and parliamentaryism at all. Some MPs were only able to insult the past term, not to mention what they were saying, to insult both the chairman and the MPs, but also to insult the citizens of Serbia. Neither will those who are more important to the Maldives and Brioni, but the citizens of Serbia and Serbia. This previous speaker just mentioned some kind of fear. I don't know what fear, fear of Alexander Wolfie. I know he has fear. I understand his fear of Alexander Wolf. If I were him, I'd be afraid of Alexander Wolf. The attitude towards the opposition was a grudge against the previous speaker, Mr. Chairman. He found it appropriate to mention a relationship to the opposition. You threw out the entire parliamentary group while your president of parliament was the chairman of the entire parliamentary group. They won't vote for Maja Gojkovic or those who take phantoms out of their pockets. Each of them has one phantom ready, probably in the dressing room, probably in the closet, for God's sake, and that phantom is a symbol of their political action, their political culture. However, not even those who were willing to challenge political instability, who were willing to risk it, and I would add, may even wish for some scenarios, whether Ukrainian, whether Macedonian, I don't know which scenario, and all because of their censorship, all to pass the censorship, because it was the only thing that mattered to them was the census, or the parliamentary salary, or the congregation restaurant, which they have shown these days. I don't know what Mr. Smederevska Palanca says, it would be your turn to warn him. Maybe it's a report about how he destroyed Smederevska Palanka, perhaps it's a report on the responsibility of the Smederjev Palanka, but in any case, I want to inform you that you're responding. Maybe it's an electricity bill, a water bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u373	Stick to the subject and don't cause any new replicas, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u374	Mr. Chairman, for Maja Gojkovic today, neither will those who voted for this assembly and obviously saw this meeting as a party, as some kind of trip, so some MPs from some parliamentary group have had enough or had enough of it all, I don't even know what the MP group is called anymore, they used the first opportunity to come down to the restaurant. For an hour, they were not all MPs, and they were already turning down at the restaurant and still taking pictures, which is consistent with the fact that they only cared about the parliamentary salary and the congregation restaurant. None of them will vote for Mrs Gojkovic, and in doing so, no adequate argument will give for their present position, but a series of flat-rate estimates, a series of tra-la-la arguments, but the good thing in the whole story is that we are in direct transmission, that Serbian citizens can directly see what the argument is and what the policy is and what is represented by those that I have cited. One more thing and I'm done. The previous speaker mentioned a farm, some kind of animal farm. I don't know what kind of farm this is. I didn't know he was at the farm, I know he was at the Maldives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u375	Don't give applause to those who insult, slander, and then complain about why something isn't fixed at some point. Let's listen to everyone, if you will, in peace. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. You'll answer later. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u376	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had no doubt that the fellow MP had not heard of Orwell or the "Life Farm". The metaphor presented by Mr. Balsa Bozovic is an excellent picture of the situation in Serbian political life. The metaphor of Orvelova "1984" is even better, which we heard from the previous exhibition. I'll explain later what it is. We heard from the previous presentation of the idea that we should all vote for the president and that those who do not vote for Parliament's president are against raising political culture in Serbia. Exactly the idea and concept that we should all unanimously, as at the SNS party assembly, vote for one candidate has led us to live in a totalitarian society, live in a country where there is a dictatorship, where there is control over all areas of social life of one party, one man. It is this philosophy by which the ruling party is to attack, muddle, Stigmatize, satanize anyone who does not vote and does not think the way the ruling party thinks and then the fear of Alexander Vukic is still mentioned. Oh, come on, now Balsa Bozovic should be afraid of the Prime Minister. Why should he fear the Prime Minister? What is the role of the Prime Minister, that the Prime Minister represents in any way a threat to any MP in this House? The MP has a supremacy over the Prime Minister, gentlemen, the MP is a representative of the citizens, the citizens have sovereignty. Learn that. There is no reason for Balsa Bozovic to fear anyone, but you have reason to fear what you are turning Serbia into. You're turning it into a totalitarian state, turning it into a country where there's a dictatorship, where there's an inability to say a different word and a different attitude. Forget the former regime, gentlemen. You've been in power for over four years. You'll be in power in a few months as long as DS was before that. You're a former regime, both ex, ex, ex, ex, ex, and ex, and ex...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u377	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u378	... Considering the number of governments you've had so far, and forget about those post-its. Forget it to our President of Parliament. We had one year of Parliament Speaker, Mr. Dulic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u379	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u380	Mr. Micunović, I think the way you run this session is scandalous. Mr. Pitiq, I read that "animal Farm" by George Orwell and that metaphor of your Duke of Maldives is rude that he can't be more rude. George Orwell's Animal Farm, the imaginary state is ruled by pigs. Are you saying now that all these people sitting behind my back are pigs? Is that the metaphor? Is this a democratic way of expressing it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u381	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u382	Here, I'm talking to you, Mr. Micunovic. Tell me what would happen if one of the SNS MPs compared DS MPs to the characters from Animal Farm? What I want to ask you, Mr. Micunovic, could you ask your party president when he will return to kidnap money from children distracted by development? It happened at a time when Serbia, in his words, was neither dictatorship nor totalitarianism, democracy flourished, only much was stolen, and among other things it stole from children distracted by development. More than a million euros have been stolen. In New Vienna, a home was to be built for children distracted by development. There's an object out there without a window, without a roof, only it doesn't collapse. A million euros on the project alone ended in Bojan Pajtic, director of the Capital Investment Fund, ask God where.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u383	Will you tell me what this has to do with the president's choice?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u384	And what difference does it make, because we don't want to let... Mr. Micunović, in 2000 DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u385	Leave it to the D.A., let it work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u386	That's from the D.A.'s office from a long time ago. You don't have to worry about the D.A. In 2000. The DS burned down this assembly, carried art paintings, chairs, carpets, they were incurring hackers, with phantoms in all the institutions of the state, and the Republic of Serbia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Sixteen years later, the same DS MEPs are called pigs, as pigs rule in "The Animal Farm". Is that democratic, Mr. Micunovic? Say, what do we have to do, so that you can court the people who have ruined Serbia and who have ruined Vojvodina and who, out of hatred for Alexander Vukic, have nothing else to say to SNS, but to compare us to the characters from "The Animal Farm"? If you don't stop, with such a way of holding a session, don't count on us to have an understanding of what our DS colleagues are doing. If you have any obligations...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u387	All this stuff you're saying is it's a pre-election campaign and a pamphlet, and I'm asking you to get back to work, and you're talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u388	.. According to your party boss, the Duke of Brion, who had not heard of the "Hetherland" and who had not heard of the Vojvodina Development Fund and who had not heard of the Vojvodina Development Bank and who had not heard of anything, except that there is a dictatorship, totalitarianism in Serbia, etc., then either you do it, or we will do it. We did not say that Mr. Balša Bozovic should fear Alexander Vukic, as Prime Minister, but he said. So these are his words that the MPs of the people are afraid when Aleksandar Vukic comes to the National Assembly, so it is the task of Maja Gojkovic, as future presidents to protect the MPs, that people are no longer afraid. Here's a tip to Mr. Balsha, when the Prime Minister comes to the National Assembly, let him escape to Maldives, there's his safest destination. There no one will live to see him, nor will they say anything to him. I beg you, Mr. Micunović, you are the chairman... (DS emissaries earning: time's up. Your time is up. You are the chairman, you were the President of Parliament, I think you know the Rules of Procedure, try to explain to your colleagues from the DS that Mr. Vukic, as Prime Minister, came to the National Assembly more than any of the presidents of the DS. Mirko Cvetkovic, in the National Assembly to answer the questions of MPs, was not once, absolutely not once. Alexander Vukic, whenever he came to the National Assembly, the DS MPs were on the run, so they couldn't hit the door. That's one thing. And another thing, Mr. Micunovic, explain to your ignorant DS colleagues that the government has an obligation to attend the National Assembly sessions, to answer the questions of the MPs, on the last Thursday of the month, from 16:00 to 1900 hours, provided that the Assembly works that day. The government will come every last Thursday of the month when the Assembly works that day. Otherwise, that government obligation doesn't exist, but I think those Rules of Procedure wrote to themselves. They thought they would be in power all the time and that the Prime Minister would be Mirko Cvetkovic, who would never appear in the National Assembly. Meanwhile, what happened was that DS had fallen out of power, Alexander Vukic was elected as Prime Minister, and now they're being bothered by the Rules of Procedure. A Rules of Procedure which provides the right for the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly and conduct dialogue with MPs. I guess now, it's Maja Gojkovic's job to protect Balša Bozovic from the Prime Minister. If Balsa Bozovic is afraid, it's his personal problem, no one needs to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u389	Mr. Martinovic, I think everything you've been meaning to say has been said five times.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u390	... But don't let a distorted picture be created as we from the SNS scare anyone, those are the words of Balša Bozovic, and please tell your party president to finally pay back the children's money distracted in the development. That would be a very nice and kind gesture from him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u391	You asked me a few questions and you gave me instructions on what to do. If this is about instructions on how he behaves in Parliament and MPs and ministers and Prime Minister, that's what I wrote a book on. Anyone who wants to read it can read it. I have no intention of opening this debate, the moment we have one task to choose from Mrs Gojkovic. All this stuff we're talking about has to be the subject of a political debate, any time, please, this is how you extend it. Now I have to give, of course, a replica, right? We'll start discussing who the party is, what who did it, and we can do it by eight o'clock, but not anymore. So let me make that clear. He's got a word. First he's got a Pitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u392	Dear Mr. Parliament Speaker, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Martinovic is obviously burdened with these standing categories. He swore an oath to a duke who was present here in parliament, and apparently because of several boards of directors, he gave up his oath and political loyalty, including loyalty to the truth itself. The Democratic Party did not fire parliament, and on the SNS list, in a coalition with the SNS today, you have more DOS parties and more DOS officials than on this side of parliament. In this regard, forget more that DS respects the burning of congregations and belonging to the former regime. The former regime has more between you than between us. As for "Storms", I am the unfortunate people who were in the middle of the "Storm" running, leaving their homes, taking care of and organizing in my hometown, accepting refugees in 1995, and never experiencing abuse of their torment, as gentlemen from the ruling party do, using their troubles for marketing in the way that this means even persecution, at that point my family was a few months ago and people close to me. As for the gentlemen, "Hetherland", Mr. Mishu Vrebal, you have been arrested for this matter, the procedure has long been under way. What did you do after these elections? Entered the coalition with the committees of Misha Vrebal. So, the SNS after a lot of stories about children distracted in the development that were kidnapped by some money, went into a coalition with Mish Vrebal who was accused of kidnapping that money. So much for principle and so much for what "Hetherland" was and how much it made sense in those stories. I have no doubt that Mr. Martinovic also read "The Life Farm" and perhaps some other books, at last he was my student, so I do not dispute that he read anything, but he obviously did not understand Orwell's metaphor either. Orwell wrote about people, animals were only metaphorically transmitted in the novel, and it was Mr. Martinovic formally completed education, but I apologize to Parliament for not raising him in the way I should have done it while he was my student. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u393	The word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u394	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize to Mr. Martinovic for not understanding "The Animal Farm". I can't really help you with that, but I would ask you to put an allegory on the list of unknown concepts. Simply, next time try another reading to maybe figure something out. I didn't compare anyone with the animals, but with the democracy that took place at the Animal Farm. It's a democracy that you understand, and I think it's destructive to Serbian society. Mr. Markovic said that if he were me, he would be afraid of Mr. Alexander Vukic. Let him be alive and well and Mr. Markovic and Mr. Alexander Vukic. Tell your boss I'm not afraid of him and I'll never be afraid of him, and I think those who stand applaud when he enters for 20 minutes represent those who free themselves through a variety of applause that lasts forever. When it comes to statistics, we have an open parliament and it may be the most realistic talks about Mrs Gojkovic, who has led the Republika Srpska Assembly so far. When it comes to the replicas of the discussion, when it comes to the debates that we've been having here, and all those laws by emergency procedure and a few dozen of them that you've put under one item of the agenda, when we've been looking for replicas, we've often not received them, the SNS had 596 replicas, the DS was the first one with 270. It speaks enough of the way Mrs Gojkovic understands democracy, the way Mrs Gojkovic respects the Rules of Procedure, always interprets it according to what the ruling majority will. I'm ending, there's only fear when someone's trying to establish a dictatorship because they're afraid of truth, arguments, debates and discussion. It was you in the last session, and I hope you won't be again, and that you will get the strength and courage to discuss each subject in an argument, every law, especially those things that concerned the standard of life of Serbian citizens. Thank you. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u395	What's the first order of business? First Martinovic and then you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u396	I thank the chairman. Replica. Very short. For the sake of Serbian citizens, just to specify the concept - fear. As the head of our parliamentary group said, Mr Bozovic said he had the fear of the prime minister, and I said that I had an understanding of his fear of the prime minister, because if I were him, as I am not, I would probably fear myself. Mr. Bozovic knows exactly what he was doing and why he's guilty and where that fear comes from, fear of robbery privatisation, fear of destroyed hundreds and hundreds of factories and businesses, fear of hundreds and hundreds of thousands of unemployed you left behind after his government, perhaps not his own, but the power of his party whose fin is now in the Assembly. I understand his fear and I repeat that I understand his fear. And I'd probably be afraid if I were him, but I'm not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u397	Lapcevic picked up first, half an hour ago. Here you go, Lapci.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u398	Article 107, Mr. Chairman, since you are the only one who can break the Rules of Procedure I have to advertise to you every time something that is unusual happens and that falls away from this Rules of Procedure. I ask you once again, and especially those who work with you here to take care of who reports for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, who reports for replicas and that you give your word accordingly, not to skip and not to adhere to the Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the National Assembly has hurt one of the previous speakers and constantly from that side comes insults, or violations of the Rules of Procedure in terms of the dignity of the National Assembly, in terms of carrying out false things. So it doesn't become a practice, because when you tell a lie more than once and it doesn't say a word, it becomes a practice. A 205 member who regulates the matter of parliamentary issues to the government every last Thursday of the month reads this - parliamentary issues are raised to the government in the presence of members of the government. Every last Thursday of the month at a session that runs between 16 and 19 hours, when work is interrupted on the agenda. So it doesn't say anything – if it's not working that day. Every Thursday of the month when the session is under way, but not when it's not working that day. Can't be determined if he doesn't respond that the day doesn't work and then there's no session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u399	Who is it now? Djukanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u400	Your Honor, I'm advocating a violation of article 108. - on the order of this session, because, you know, it's the turn of law among other things and to prevent them from speaking lies especially from some people who claim that there is some dictatorship here, and they were presidents of the province's government, and in their time the Vojvodina Assembly was held two or three times a year and they never almost spoke to the MPs of the Vojvodina Assembly, thus absolutely demonstrating the dictatorial character that they carry within them and that's something that's scandalous for them to complain to us, where, unlike Mr. Vukic, comes here every month, suits them, and they run away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u401	Mr. Djukanovic, who is the member of the Rules of Procedure injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u402	The one about Parliament's dignity. They have no right to object to anyone, especially to Orwell, those who apparently experienced Orwell in themselves because they led the state in such a way...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u403	Which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u404	... In their day, just as they were in charge of the city, they were getting bars at the Palas Hotel, their dads were getting mines to trade in ore, etc.... (Marian Risticevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u405	He's got a word... Wait, what are you talking about? I'm asking what you want. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u406	Thank you. Article 107(1), Article 103, Article 108, Article 109. - the reminder is given to the People's Messenger, etc. Mr President, you have missed the opportunity to give notice to the MPs who have harshly insulted the MPs of the other assembly for the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, no matter what those MP groups were called, those who insult and those who have been injured. Mr. President, we can't make anyone respect us, but we can stand up to anyone who doesn't respect us. Those who try to offend should know that wise people are hard to insult. Me personally... The gentleman who laughs must have knocked on his door again, so it's funny. I suggest him try the Maldives to win power. There's more there than there is here. The Maldives Republic is small. Let me finish. Wise people are hard to insult. I can personally be insulted only better than me, burns never. If so, let them see that they are not in front of the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u407	The word has Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u408	Dear Chairman, I appeal to article 107... People's MPs are getting it. No, no, no. He was a member of 108 and 109. He quoted 103, 108 and 109, not 107. Therefore, Article 107 was not mentioned. So the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I must tell you that it is a harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly with the idea that any MP should fear the Prime Minister and then talk about not living in a dictatorship. What's the Prime Minister? Can the Prime Minister be arrested? Can the Prime Minister press charges? If someone broke the law, what does the Prime Minister have to do with it, and why would one of the MPs be afraid of the Prime Minister? So, the fear spoken of and respected by Mr Bozovic stems from the nature of this regime, comes from the idea that one man should decide whether to press charges against someone, whether they will be arrested or not. Gentlemen, in this way, you will not talk in the People's Parliament and we will not allow such talk in a country that presupposes to be both part of the EU and presupposes it to be a legal state. Turns out Mr. Bozovic is responsible for the robbery privatisation. Yesterday, Kostunica was responsible, today Mr Bozovic. Arrange more who's responsible for the robbery privatisations. Being president of the province government, you know what gentlemen, for us citizens voted four times, so, for 16 years, we had a responsibility because we weren't as boastful and as violent as you. You can only dream of having a responsibility anywhere for 16 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u409	The word is Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u410	Professor Micunovic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have so much parliamentary experience to believe that this debate will go differently and whoever thinks I have a problem with it, so I don't. Of course not. The election of parliament's president is a couple of excellent political topics, it precedes the larger political debate on the exposé of the prime minister. One story leans on another. It's hard to frame our debates, but it's all part of political life, especially parliamentary. So I don't have a problem with that. In two days too much partying, too much demagogy, and too little substance. What do I think the point is? Are we going to talk about whether we learned something from the previous 10 calls or are we going to repeat the same mistakes over and over again? How are we going to involve as many citizens as possible in the decision-making process, in the NGO sector and in the discussion, make the laws more effective – I think that is a fundamental question to which this debate should be answered. I will not vote for Mrs Gojkovic personally for two reasons. The first reason is principled nature. We're the opposition. You didn't ask for that support from the opposition. The second reason is that the paradigm of its parliamentary presidency can actually stand in that sentence spoken to the opposition that we have less rights than the MPs of power. There is also a profoundly wrong statement for parliamentary life. The opposition MPs can have less time, shorter time to discuss. It is a procedurally arranged matter because of the number of votes, and I understand that, but no MP should have less rights than another MP. Anyone who sits at that table and thinks that any MP has less rights than the other in any party must know that it is destroying the most important political institution in the country. I will personally fight it, then and when the rights of the MPs are at stake. It's a matter of principle. We talked a lot about the British Parliament. At the entrance to the British Parliament, it says, "We are serving the nation". Our task, the task of this is to stop anyone who wants to put on this parliament to "serve the government". I'm not for ministers to be afraid to come to the Assembly, but I don't mind if they swallow dumplings and I don't mind developing a more serious debate than the one that was. MPs should thank ministers for the amendments they have adopted, they should thank us for submitting the amendments and making their laws better, that is the principle of the matter. What this parliament, this assembly, must find strength, to launch those debates that this government, the previous government, all previous governments did not get the strength or did not want or did not want, in any case, did not launch these topics: education, decline of education, unemployment of young people, 300,000 young people expect this from us. We don't need money for this kind of reform when you have a 1988 regulation that young people send to work instead of working. We don't need money for this, we need dialogue, we need new laws. My generation has to answer these questions in order to preserve those younger generations. We need them more in Serbia than in Austria, Germany, Canada. That's our job, we have to work on it. The control role, we talked a lot about it backwards, I don't know how many years, but we did a little bit. What are good environmental laws worth to us when we're drowning in garbage, what are the laws of education worth to us if we produce diplomas like on tape and sell as in the market? What's a legal state worth to us on paper if anyone can put on a phantom and tear down half the street in the capital. It's something we have to work on as MPs, it's our duty. Finally, from Article 99. The constitution, the enormous powers of parliament. We here can debate war and peace, the borders of our state, the state of emergency, the choice of government and judges. That's why our debates have to have tolerance, so we have to stick to public language ethics. We have to show the citizens that we're worthy of the roles we've won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u411	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u412	I am immeasurably grateful to you, Mr Micunovic, that after half an hour since I answered the word you finally made it possible for me to say something about Bojan Pajtic's thief and DS in Vojvodina. Since Mr. Pajtic is constantly threatening some lawsuits, and he will sue me once, twice, five times, he will press charges against Zoran Babic, I don't know who else, and I will now, Mr. Micunovic, read what I wrote, just one piece, which I wrote in my reply to the lawsuit brought against me by Mr. Bojan Pajtic. By the way, the same gentleman in question didn't show up at the trial, but he sent his lawyer, and I came himself, so what he said was supposed not true. Mr. Micunovic, I am speaking to you, when it comes to "Hetherland", I have to make a small introduction, the Capital Investment Fund was founded in 2006. A total of 1,306 projects totalling 66,412,581,000 dinars were financed from the Capital Investment Fund. Now, what happened when it came to "Hetherland", from 2011 to 2013 in the municipality of Novi Becej, when it comes to the so-called "Hetherland". The adaptation of the castle ‘Hetherland’, an anti-legal property benefit has been provided, it writes in my reply to the complaint that I delivered to the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad – the anti-legal property benefit has been provided to the company ‘Gardi’ DOO from Novi Sad in the amount of 61,722,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u413	What does this have to do with the election of Maja Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u414	Count the numbers as much as Pajtic stole money from children distracted by development, that is to the firm, and Igor Rebi, owner and responsible person of the company "Gardi" DOO from Novi Sad 12,877,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u415	Mr. Martinovic, you're abusers of the function of the promoter. You talk about completely different things and everything you have to say you've collected, and we'll be back after eight, but not because of me, but because of you. And now you can tell history. Let's go back, let's leave, let's finish the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u416	Mr. Micunovic, just to let you know what SNS's position is. You can stop the session now and schedule it in two days, but you can stop the choice of the candidate supported by the SNS, it won't come with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u417	Listen, don't talk to me about these tones, or pressure, or anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u418	If you think Mr. Micunovic is going to make those threats like -- I'm going to close the session at eight o'clock, so I can't say anything against Bojan Pajtic or DS, as far as I'm concerned, you can stop the session immediately, you can go straight to the vote. Just please don't burn down the National Assembly. A lot of money has been invested in her reconstruction. You can stop the session, just don't turn it on. If you could, Mr. Micunovic, just ask your party president to pay back at least part of the money that was taken from children distracted by development, I think it would be one human gesture.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u419	Mr. Martinovic, this is all recorded and all of this people are watching and everyone is presenting, they may believe in the good light, but many unfortunately in the bad. What's more important is that while I'm here, I suggest that stenograms from all sessions be published in the "office Messenger", so let the people see and read everything anyone writes, and then they can prove that he never said it. But let's leave it now, now it's not a topic. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u420	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, absolutely disagrees with the opposition's accusations of the functioning of the National Assembly in the previous assembly. I myself was an actor of work and function and a witness absolutely. What I can say is that I believe that a spirit and tolerance and parliamentaryism has absolutely been brought to life in the past, and certainly part of the credit for the upcoming and then President Maja Gojkovic and today's candidate. But there are a few things that may be more important than what I'm talking about. First of all, these are the financial and economic indicators of our country during the work of this government. I can say that, in other words, the confirmation of these indicators has also been given by international economic and financial institutions. But today, I will speak most affirmatively, first of all, of certain qualitative improvements in health, because I belong to that branch. First of all, during the term of this government, the Budget Fund for the Treatment of Children abroad was formed, i.e. to treat all those diseases whose treatment was not possible in our country. I will point out that within this period, more than 80 children are already being treated and given a chance to live. Moreover, the necessary interventions were carried out, operations that could not be carried out in our country. Also, activities related to the completion of Serbia's Clinical Centre and the Nis Clinical Centre have been intensified, due to be completed by the end of the year. A gamma knife was obtained that represents a gold standard in neurosurgery, i.e. in the treatment of cancer patients. So, patients who have referred to themselves earlier in Turkey today are successfully being treated with us. Four new linear accelerators were purchased and... Chairman, I'm asking you to allow me a normal exposure. So, new four linear accelerators were purchased and another six agreed by New Year's Eve. That way oncology patients will be, i.e. There will be no regular list, and they will be properly treated as soon as possible. 64 sanitary vehicles have also been purchased. I will remind you that during the time of Minister Milosavljevic's purchase of the vehicle, the money was paid, and the case is in court. A Cuban vaccine has been introduced in patients who have been diagnosed, and I will remind you that many countries have tried to introduce this vaccine into their medical practice, but have failed. What is very important is that cardiosurgery has worked in Nis, which is important for both southern Serbia and the whole country. It is precisely this result that we can say that Serbia has made one qualitative step and moved six places on the world list that practically measures the level of quality of health care. So there are many other things that we can discuss, but what we cannot discuss is this kind of behavior in parliament, this kind of obstruction, and this kind of really great desire for the president not to be elected within the time limit prescribed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u421	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u422	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a replica of Mr. Martinovic, one of the most inappropriate... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: On what basis? It can't be a replica. I called after Mr. Martinovic was exposed. I'm just asking you to calm down the roar of young lions and continue my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u423	My friend, just a moment after that speaker you had another speaker, do you have any objections to this last speaker?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u424	I answered after Mr. Martinovic and insisted on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u425	It can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u426	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u427	When someone else turns on, it's too late for that replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u428	I answered in good time, so after Mr. Martinovic was exposed, but if you have not responded as chairman to what he calls a MP a criminal, I do not have to call...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u429	You did apply for the replica on a regular basis, that's correct, but I interrupted it by giving after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, please, I give you my word. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u430	So, I urge all MPs to stick to the agenda and really allow a fellow MP to say a few sentences. This is SNS democracy. So this is a pattern that we will clearly see in the next period. Mr. Martinovic must learn what a division of power is, he must learn what the position of Prime Minister is. It's harassment... The emissaries speak out loud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u431	After that, you flew in with... It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u432	That's how they experience the minority and the attitude towards the minority. So, gentlemen, stand up for the standards you'll want to be applied to you when you're an opposition, and you'll be an opposition once in a while, don't doubt that at all. So, Mr. Martinovic needs to know what the division of power is and what the Prime Minister is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u433	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u434	And when it makes accusations against anything compared to one of the projects of several hundred province institutions, it should be known that the authorities responsible for determining the crime are the police and the prosecution, that police and the prosecution should work to determine whether there was any crime. It certainly wasn't the Prime Minister who did it, but whatever... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u435	Time's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u436	Even though you have given me your word, go ahead, never mind, I won't take it as something pejorative. Mr President, Article 27. You are the chairman, you can't have Bojan Pajtic, although he is the president of your party, to raise the Rules of Procedure and somehow beg for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then move on to replication. And let me tell you, he can't even silence the MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u437	I'm sorry, Pitiæ answered the word and he got it. In the meantime, they reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I gave it to them in that order, but you can't deny a man because of it...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u438	Mr. President, Article 27, please take a look...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u439	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u440	Don't get in my word, two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u441	Alexandra Jerkov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u442	Mr. President, I can't explain to you that I'm not finished, because I don't like...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u443	You're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u444	Really?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u445	You're done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u446	So, primitiveism never ends here in parliament?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u447	Excuse me, who's this? According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u448	I'm done at your grade? I mean, just so I understand, I'm not standing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u450	Mr. President, am I finished for you to give the other one your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u451	Please, sit down, you'll get a word whenever you want. People pick up their business, look, don't usurp.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u452	Well, you took my word...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u453	Obviously tonight you want to work a little longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u454	I don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u455	If you care about that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u456	Mr. President, what are you nervous about?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u457	What do you want now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u458	Well, I just want to explain to you what article 27 says.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u459	Come on, be nice and sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u460	Just Article 27, that's what I want to explain. I have no bad intentions for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u461	Sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u462	Shall I sit down? I mean, are you either giving me your word or not giving me your word? You talk to me in your voice all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u463	I beg you, Mrs. Gojkovic, give an example of discipline. If the chairman tells you to sit down, then be kind and sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u464	Well, did you give Alexandria Jerk's word, so suddenly you gave someone here in the O.R.? President, give Stefana Miladanovic half an hour to run the session, to use Article 27 to stick to the rules. If she says you can't get a replica, like you said to Bojan Pitiæ... He can be your president as long as you want, it's your last. Then you gave the other speakers a chance to talk about some hundred topics. Then, since he yelled at you, you better have given him a replica that must be done directly, not after half an hour to give him the right to replication. I'm trying to explain. It's hard to understand, but I'm trying because this session doesn't look much more like anything. You've lost your strings completely.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u465	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u466	I didn't know you didn't have a shred of that knightly, gentlemanly and gentlemanly thing, but you're trying to get one lady and wife to... To be funny, it doesn't fit you at all. Thank you for setting me an example of how I'm supposed to run a session, to keep it off all the time when something's not right for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u467	I've never seen this before, that someone who hasn't been elected wants to exercise that power at any cost before people choose him. It's the first time in my life I've ever seen. I'm begging you, I just explained that there were a few, you think it's easy from here, ten hands rise. So I gave the word and the replica. Meanwhile, since I gave my word and the man started talking, I turned around and saw that there were, here, and now there are ten of them that are raising, so someone will be offended. You want the obstruction of this session. But believe me, I have great nerves, good shape, and I'll bring this to an end, and you try whatever you want. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: I was the first to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, the gentleman answered there first. Sit down. Here you go, sir, you have a word. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u468	I'm advocating a violation of Article 103(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Mr. Chairman, I asked you on Friday and warned you that your behavior, your way of leading this session, is not going anywhere. You have just shown that you of the DS are afraid of your superiors in the party more than the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution and one extreme disrespect you have shown to the current president of the Assembly and the candidate for president of the Assembly, who you do not allow to finish the word. Your finger today has reacted for the first time, and after perhaps a rude response from our side, to turn the bells on at least once for all of this time session when opposition MPs are making it impossible for MPs to speak normally and debate in this assembly. This isn't like your age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u469	Djukanovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u470	Dear Mr. Micunovic, I believe that you may be our greatest living philosopher right now, someone who must have really been a basso in promoting democracy, but what you're doing, especially with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, it's really scandalous. You should not have given Mr. Pitiæ any replica, because Mr. Laketić spoke of him who did not mention him at all. You may have been able to give Mr. Laketić a replica of what Mr. Martinovic said before. But what you did afterwards is really scandalous, and I'm advertising Article 108, by the way, you're taking care of yourself, the way you addressed Mrs. Gojkovic, and how you treat all of us here really makes us think that you want to turn this assembly into a hiducium. That's not gonna work. We won't let you do that, and we have time if we have to sit here for five days, but we're really gonna prove how anti-democratic you are and how you're running this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u471	The word is Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u472	You've violated Article 100's order. If you want to discuss with MPs the position, the opposition, go down to the parliamentary benches and discuss it. Don't threaten that position with your finger and threaten the MPs. It doesn't mean that if you're sitting there, there's nothing we can talk about during this debate. Don't threaten to sit here for another five days. It's no problem, but then tell the citizens of Serbia how much it will cost that you are tired, that you are looking for a break and that you cannot work longer than 20 hours and that you are listening to your party chief, Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u473	Here you go, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u474	Mr. Micunović, you were the only one who knew today to say, it is to object to Mr. Martinovic that this session has a current like this, and today you have turned the microphone off more than I have in two years. Mr. Micunovic, you allow your president, although you allow Mr. Bozovic, who is sorry that we have someone to applaud, and he doesn't, because we don't even know who the president is, or how long he will be, trying to stay at the head of the DS and trying to help you keep the formation of the Serbian Parliament, the formation of the government, in order to try as much as possible to hide its clues in the crime and robbery of the people of Vojvodina. That's what you allow, Mr. Micunovic. You're trying to cost citizens of Serbia a million and a half dollars each day, so you can obstruct the National Assembly. Let the leadership of the Parliament be formed, Government, to see what the DS has been doing these 12 years in Vojvodina. If it's all right, and the people of Vojvodina claim that there's not, that there's a lot of abuse, a lot of robbery, I can state by tomorrow, from the central facility in Vrbas, where millions and millions of euros have been stolen, where suspicious tenders, where still investment can't end and everyone runs away from it like the devil from the cross and we don't list what's going on in Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u475	You've reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You weren't talking about the subject, you were talking about other things. Please don't read my lessons, and whoever shows up, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u476	Mr. Micunović, Article 103(3). Mr. Micunović, I ask you to understand that this is the most legislative body, to bring this session to an end, to allow MPs to express their opinion, to discuss, to face opinions, not to violate the Rules of Procedure at any moment, not to allow them to finish, not to give a word in order and turn off the microphone, I repeat, more times than I have in two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u477	Would you like us to come forward when the time comes for a vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u478	If that's all you know, that you're accusing the head of the SNS parliamentary group, I think it's wrong and I hope that in the coming period you'll realize that you're going to have to run this session as good to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u479	Mr. Martinovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u480	Mr. Micunović, I don't know if you've heard, here, RTS has just released a video of your party president cursing you with words – A, more in p* m*. We are not surprised at the fact that Mr. Pajtic lost his nerve because he can no longer steal, because he can no longer kidnap people's money in Vojvodina and because he has barely crossed the censorship in the elections. But it does not give you the right, Mr Micunovic, to tolerate the terror of the DS and the terror of Bojan Pajtic over the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u481	You don't have a word, please. You can't insult anyone. I have the right to give you a warning. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: What do I have? Mr. Micunovic, Comrade Micunovic, what shall I call you, what are you, a communist, a Leninist, a Marxist, a Democrats, what are you? A Glog island snitch? What do you want me to call you? I'd tell you to sit down. You're not the sheriff here. Sit down, please. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: I do not want to sit down. Then stop, you're nicer when you're standing. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: You cannot tolerate DS terror. Ten minutes break. I'm asking the heads of Parliament to come to the O.R. One. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, we continue our work. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u483	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u484	It's only been three minutes, it's been so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u485	So it's obvious that the promoter himself doesn't have a lot of nice things to say about the candidate for the president of the assembly and there aren't many things he would recommend that he continue to perform this function and therefore, in all ways, he's trying to talk about everything except our candidate. However, Maja Gojkovic said on February 22, 2014, that it is necessary for the seed of evil that personifies Dragan Gilas to be eradicated. It's no big deal that she said that, it's a terrible thing that she's devoted her entire presidency to the Assembly to being exactly what she's shown on several occasions here now complaining of some kind of treatment she's getting here from the chairman. Maja Gojkovic, therefore, was the poor president of the Assembly, allowed the government to pass several laws in this assembly that caused direct damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore we from the DS will not vote for its reelection. There is one much bigger thing about Maja Gojkovic, our candidate who is recommended for other places, not for the chairmanship of the National Assembly. Namely, there has been a ruling by the Supreme Cassation Court since 9 May 2013, which is one of the parties to the ruling by Maja Gojkovic, as mayor of Novi Sad, the other private minister, Ilija Devic, who is asking for the town of Novi Sad, for four million euros and only on the first occasion, because it is a much bigger lawsuit and the damage will be several dozen million euros. So Maja Gojkovic is one contractor, the other is Ilija Delic, who represents ATP Vojvodina. On the 11th side of this verdict, it is the fault of both parties and their guilt is equal. On page 12, it says - from previous exposure it writes about security, motive, bad intentions, illicit object, no doubt the responsibility of the Contracting Party is the same. This implies that there is a shared responsibility for the damage caused in equal proportion. Then he says, unconscious because they knew they were negotiating something that was illegal. So, on 9 May 2013, the Supreme Cassation Court reached a judicial verdict that found Maja Gojkovic guilty of the damage caused by the town of Novi Sad, on the basis of which four million euros were removed from the city's account. This woman, instead of criminally responsible for this damage she is aware of, knowing that she is doing an illicit thing, has done to the city of Novi Sad, to his citizens, which is why I personally damaged her, and today the SNS is all quoting some cover of the tabloids as running for such an important function.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u486	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u487	Do you allow me to say something? Chairman, can I say something?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u488	I gave my word, and you said the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u489	Nothing, you've only forgotten something about all this esteemed colleague, you're forgiven for not being a lawyer, so you have no idea what you're talking about at all. But, well, I'm used to two years, not two, from 2005, 2006 to 2016, I'm used to DS, especially this part of the New Sadi province, throwing mud at me, but it doesn't bother me at all, because the mud is so much on your side that you can't use fiction to defend yourself in this way at all. You forgot something. You forgot in 2012, when I think it was the director, I think, I know Zoran Markovic, director of the Anti-Crime and Corruption Agency, filed criminal charges against Igor Pavlic, best man Bojan Pajtic, then Mayor of Novi Sad for the case and against the entire capital of Novi Sad for organised crime in the case, because by not doing anything from 2008 to 2012, they did nothing to prevent the damage from happening or not being at all. But it's not your fault, because you don't know anything about the law, you don't know anything if this was a civil suit or a criminal, but it's the ones who give you these papers to read, and they don't know what kind of answer they're going to get. So, you know what happened to Zoran Markovic? The first is for this, says organised crime, it's a serious crime, and in less than two weeks, the prosecution is under the pressure of the DS that ruled our life and death at the time, it had to give up on it and say... Can't I say anything against DS? Nothing? It's forbidden. Am I going to go to Goli Island maybe?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u490	You asked for a replica, you got a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u491	So, and then when that danger was removed to investigate at all whether there was organised crime by Igor Pavlicic and all those who were in the city council, Igor Pavlicic held a press conference at the Novi Sad City House. What's that? That's true and threatened Zorana Markovic. He threatened to replace her. The other day I met this lady and she told me, you don't know what was happening to me. Igor Pavlicic and his bosses in the DS were waving me around Belgrade in black jeeps. If you don't believe me, ask Zorana Markovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u492	Thank you. Mrs. Jerkov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mrs. Gojkovic, who left the O.R., she's probably used to reading the papers that someone gives her, so she criticalally thinks we're all doing it, but we don't, we don't look up to her, so we're not going to do it by it. I am not reading any papers, I am reading the verdict of the Supreme Cassation Court of 2013 which says that by negotiating a business with the construction of a bus station in Novi Sad, Maja Gojkovic knew that she was doing an unauthorized thing and that she was as responsible as Ilija Dević for the damage caused by the city of Novi Sad of four million euros and that is only one of the damages in this big case, because there are several lawsuits that, if it is based on this logic, will end everything in the same way. In that same verdict on the other hand, the 11th, says, that just the low-level courts were talking about what Maja Gojkovic was talking about that the city did not carry out its obligation, but that the damage did not result, but that the damage was caused by the fact that Maja Gojkovic did something that was illegal and that she knew at the time of the bargaining that she was doing the illicit thing. These are not so certain accusations that MPs here have the right, they tend to read from some front page of the tabloids, from some anonymous sources, stories and so on. This is the Supreme Court ruling. I am among the citizens of Novi Sad who, for the sake of Mrs Gojkovic, have filed a criminal report against Mrs Gojkovic for this because I was damaged as a person living in Novi Sad, rejected as obsolete. If so, the prosecution did under pressure from the DS, Mrs Gojkovic says, in 2013, under whose pressure the Supreme Cassation Court brought it in saying it was guilty of the damage of four million euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u494	Maya's got a minute. (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u495	Chairman, you have violated article 27. - You don't care about work, you don't apply the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker, as Mrs. Maja Gojkovic said, really doesn't know what she's talking about, is not a lawyer, you allowed her a replica, she had no right to that replica. We can now talk about something that is not a topic here, we can also talk about the judiciary set up by the Democratic Party at the time it ruled and haralded Serbia, when they were reforming the judiciary in 2010, maybe you won't hear it, we can talk about the Vojvodine Development Bank that they brought into bankruptcy when they took loans without security, we can talk about it all, but when we talk about it, then it's not the agenda point, and when the lady talks about what she doesn't know, because she's not a lawyer, then you let her get a word and talk about something that isn't really a subject or knows what she's talking about. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u496	The word is Aleksandra Djurovic. I'm sorry, I'm sorry... (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Can't, What now? Did you set the rule? I gave my word? Here you go, not right now, don't run the session from there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u497	Thank you, Chairman. The colleagues and fellow MPs of the agenda point we are currently discussing are the election of the National Assembly president, and since the only proposal for the National Assembly President, Ms Maja Gojkovic, is the re-election and of course we cannot be limited to speaking exclusively about Mrs Gojkovic's biography, which is well known, but we should primarily talk about her way of working in these two years, as far as she was in that position. We could hear numerous criticisms from the opposition that they were in some way damaged by her work, but my opinion was that she was in one high-quality, tolerant way chairing the National Assembly sessions and very often the SNS MPs referred her to criticism that she was much more tolerant of the opposition than the MPs from the party who proposed her. Indeed, when I hear that a female MP, at least from the opposition party, speaks so uglyly of a woman's candidate for one position of parliament, I feel really bad, especially when it is based on many false claims and it is also especially hypocritical to hear that anyone from the Democratic Party says that Maja Gojkovic has damaged the people of Vojvodina. In the previous term, we have adopted a number of laws in these two years and what awaits us and with which Mrs Gojkovic, as future speaker of Parliament and all of us here working as MPs, is that we will have to do much more to make the law, given that in the next four years one of our objectives is to fully harmonise our legislation with EU legislation, in order to be ready for membership. Soon, we are expected to open chapters 23, 24, which are in fact a reform of the entire Serbia society to meet the standards that exist in EU countries. One of the roles played by Parliament's president, one of the more important roles he plays is both a representative function and more and more parliamentary diplomacy plays a role in our society and not only in our society, but everywhere in Europe, and Mrs Gojkovic, in the previous Parliament's meeting, was extremely active promoting Serbia both abroad and through participation in various international events, as well as here in Serbia, when we were able to host a number of high officials. It was from this booth that many senior EU officials had the opportunity to address us, and there were also the European Parliament President Mr Martin Schulc, EU Enlargement Commissioner Mr Han, and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, who addressed us from this pay phone. We also had the opportunity to host the presidents of both of the Russian parliaments, Ms Valentina Matvenko, and Mr Sergei Nerishkin, and that is exactly the policy we have implemented over the past two years, which we intend to continue in the coming period, which is co-operation with the countries of the East and the West with regard to foreign policy and parliamentary diplomacy, and all of us MPs can do a lot on this issue. As chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the previous meeting, I had plenty of opportunities to co-operate with Mrs Gojkovic, in one good and quality way, and I think that with the presidents of all committees, as well as with all MPs of great importance is co-operation with the President of Parliament, in particular, I would say to whoever works in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because it is precisely some link that connects the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the President of Parliament that is working to promote our country. Also, we had the opportunity last year when we were on the initiative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly and the Russian Dume, we had the opportunity to establish a permanent body called the Co-operation Commission between the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Dume, which is the highest level of co-operation established by the Serbian Parliament with any other parliament in the world. Russia's Duma has three other parliaments, besides Serbia's, with which it has established this type of co-operation, and as far as the National Assembly is concerned, we are the only parliament we are working with on such a high-ranking new one, it is the Russian Duma. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and Russian Duma President, Mr. Naristkin last year signed the type of co-operation and the formation of a permanent body in December in Moscow. I am here, I must really refer to a statement by the president of the Parliament Group of Dveri, Mr Obradovic, who wanted to praise how he got his congratulations from senior Russian Duma officials, probably for crossing the censors, mentioned Mr. Željnjak and Mr. Aleksei Pushkov as the people he got his congratulations from. I must say that everyone who deals with parliamentary diplomacy, even diplomacy, knows that the services that work for such people protocolly send congratulations for elections, for new years and similar occasions, and what perhaps you or the MPs have not been sufficiently informed, and what I want to remind you now is that Mr. Željnjak himself came to Belgrade and attended the final SNS rally in Belgrade on behalf of the Single Russia, the ruling party in the Russian Federation, provided support for the SNS in the elections. Also, my dear colleague and friend, Mr. Alexei Pushkov last year, after you mentioned him, was twice in Serbia last year. Both times on my call as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. So I can tell all the parties that have just entered the National Assembly for the first time or after a certain break they've had in the work, that they're going to have to really do a lot more to reach a level at all, I mean primarily the parties that are declared pro-Russian-oriented. They'll have to work a lot more to reach at least some level of co-operation that the SNS has established with the Russian Dum, with the Russian Federation. The election of Mrs Gojkovic as Parliament's president, her re-election, is certainly a guarantee that such foreign policy policy will also be implemented in the coming period, and I therefore believe that her choice is the right choice for this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u498	Replic or what? (Bosko Obradović, from town: Replica. To mention? (Bosko Obradović, from town: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u499	The Honorable chairman, honourable fellow MPs, of course, that the highest officials of the Russian Duma and top Russian diplomats certainly don't send protocol cards when congratulating someone to join the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nor would they congratulate someone who hasn't crossed the censorship or who in any other way has done something inappropriate. Therefore, it is clear that SNS representatives have a problem with the fact that they are no longer the only address discussed by Russian partners in Serbia. On the contrary. They are an address that is increasingly suspected of being the real partner of the Russian Federation in Serbia. After all, Mrs Djurovic certainly knows best when to analyse compliance with these famous negotiations on Serbia's further path to the EU, where Serbia will surely wait for further blackmail along the way of preventing our co-operation with the Russian Federation. So, on that path, Serbia to the EU, we will definitely have to go on the road to NATO and impose sanctions on Russia and abolish for us the favourable foreign trade agreements that we have with the Russian Federation, because simply our partners from the EU are asking us to do so. So, I propose to the Assembly Committees and, of course, the future government of the Republic of Serbia to deal more with the issue of how we will actually keep our relations with the Russian Federation on this devastating path of Serbia to the EU at all costs, without worrying about the relations of the Serbian Dvora Movement with the top Russian diplomats, with whom we have been friends for many years and who, of course, have received the most Serbian Movement delegations in Moscow, just showing who is the real partner of the Russian Federation on Serbian premises.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u500	Your time is up. (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replica. Have you been mentioned? (Milan Lapčević, from town: Replication to her presentation. ) (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: He was not mentioned by anyone. You don't think there's a replica? (Alexandra Djurovic, from the post: No one mentioned him. ) (Milan Lapčević, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u501	Article 104. If someone is referring to the MP's group, the representative of the parliamentary group shall have the right to replication. So, you have to give me your word, because Mrs. Djurovic, in her previous presentation, addressed it indirectly, and her exposure was also directly related to the DSS, as a party that...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u502	Wait, a moment, to be clear, if the party was mentioned, then you would have the right to have Mrs. Raskovic answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u503	The party is mentioned indirectly and I have the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u504	If you're mentioned personally, then you can answer yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u505	All right, Mr. Micunović, I'm just asking you to keep order in the O.R., that you give the word and give the replica, not the assembly majority by acclaiming and throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u506	Okay, thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u507	I'm really sorry to see that some of the parties here think they have a deed to relations with Russia and that everyone else is apriors, they're not friends and they can't count on support. What's a fact is that the level established with the Russian Dum in this parliament in the previous assembly, you still need to step in some way, if you can track it. In the previous session, which was 100% pro-European-oriented, 128 MPs were members of the Friendship Group with the Russian Federation. On the other hand, the public support sent by the Unique Russia, Mr Putin's party, Medvedev, the ruling party in Russia, was sent to the SNS and that fact cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u508	According to the Rules of Procedure, is that right? Mr. Lapčević, you have the right to the replica if you've been mentioned directly. [[Milan Lapcevic, from the post: Do I now have the right to reply?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u509	Article 104(2)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u510	Wait, please, let me explain. I just said, if the party was attacked, then the party president, if he's here, if he hasn't authorized you, then you're talking. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: A party is attacked. ) If that is not the case, but you are personally and indirectly quoted, then you have the right to reply. (Milan Lapčević, from the city: A party is attacked. In what words? You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u511	Thank you, Mr. Micunovic. I'll be very brief. Mrs. Djurović, thank you... So, Article 104. It's about the indirect party and the level of our relationship with the Russian Federation. (Vladimir Orlic, from the scene: Indirectly? He can't! This is ridiculous! ) To remind you, the DSS signed an agreement first with a party from the Russian Federation on co-operation. The first one reached an interstate agreement, so-called It's an oil-gas deal. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: This one argues with himself. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u512	Mr. Lapčević, you're entering a replica, and by this article, as I've given you, you couldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u513	So, you could take more care of how you'll explain how you ratified a NATO power treaty through Serbia and how you'll explain to them how Serbia is approaching NATO and how we're going to fill the place on the Russian market, what they offered us when Europe imposed sanctions, rather than talking about flat rates... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u514	Okay. Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macur, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u515	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, People's MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have come to the floor following the violation of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 106(1) and the violation of Rules of Procedure under Rule 107. What I would remind you once again in front of a group of citizens is enough – Sasa Radulovic, not only is the dignity of the National Assembly being destroyed, but the dignity of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is being ruined for the simple reason that all of this we are doing today, and we are practically doing nothing, diversifying the topics, talking about something that is not the subject of the agenda at all, about the relations of Russia and Serbia, we are talking about bringing out the dirty laundry that all previous governments have managed to bring us here in these two days, one day of work of the National Assembly costing citizens of the Republic of Serbia 1.5 million dinars. We spent one day, and today we spent six hours. There is no effect behind our work and Serbian citizens see it well. I urge you once again to stick to the one item on the agenda that is today, which is the election of the president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u516	Okay. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u517	Mr. Micunovicu, they have been injured. 103, 104 and 108. You've well warned a former speaker that he's not entitled to a replica and you've given him a good explanation of why he doesn't have the right. However, he continued to speak, calling suddenly for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which he certainly had no right to, because he had to sit down first, so that you would give him the word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. He didn't do it. I must admit that Mrs Djurovic, the only person she mentioned in her speech was Putin and Medvedev. I don't know if the man identified with Putin and Bear, but it really seems grotesque and ridiculous to me. I ask that you do not allow this kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure, as did the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u518	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u519	Mr. Chairman, I point to article 27's content regarding what we just heard from our colleagues, and 109 again regarding the same, custody of the session order, Mr. Chairman, a chronic problem, an unsustainable problem. I am truly sorry that I have to first address this honorary home to use to advertise the Rules of Procedure, I am truly sorry. I was hoping I'd never be able to raise this Rules of Procedure, and you can ask the colleagues who were here in the previous term, I haven't done it once in two years. That's an indicator of how much this is happening today, what was happening on Friday unsustainable. So it's your duty to take care of the order at the session. It is your duty not to allow arbitraryness and, you will allow, charlatanism. This is absolutely anything but a session worthy of this high house. I understand that more than half of the problem stems from the lack of understanding of the Rules of Procedure by some people, from impertinence and chronic intentional abuse, but your obligation is to no one else, not to allow it. So, if some here are used to certain things by force, so whether it's about elections, about dealing with RIK or any institution in this country, at the National Assembly, it's your responsibility. So, you can't let this happen, if we're going to do this right, if we're going to do it in a way worthy of this high house, you're obliged to react. I sincerely ask you to influence people who answer for a word, to influence people who want to abuse the seconds they're given in direct transmission. That's not the point of staying here. The people who sent us to this room sent us to do a big and important job for them. Whoever doesn't know that doesn't deserve to be called a MP. Please, Mr. Chairman, let's do this in the only possible correct way. If we can't do that, you've already heard what the Rules of Procedure and Rule 3 predict. Thank you. I hope I don't have to talk to you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u520	It would be good for us to follow the session and see what's going on here and see how large the number of MPs who break the Rules of Procedure are, they go off the table, they insult each other, and so on. It takes ten on-calls here to watch the left-hand side of what's going on. I try to bring this constitutive session down without warning, without some major dramas, but unfortunately we also have actors here who want to stand out and dramatize the situation in every way. I hope now that for the rest of our time, we'll hear all those who haven't spoken and managed to hear each other. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u521	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to congratulate, on behalf of the Members of the SNP, everyone on this new mandate. It is an honor to be a folk MP in the Serbian Parliament, whose salamis through Serbia's history have made important decisions, have conducted large debates that have decided on the fate of the nation and the state. Every generation had its own challenge, its problems and its responsibilities. And so this assembly of the National Assembly, and all of us as MPs, in the complex and difficult circumstances in which Serbia is located, have the obligation and responsibility to respond to these challenges courageously, clearly and concretely. This assembly of the National Assembly should have several assignments to answer. The first most important thing, to be able to work successfully, is to organize well. A good organization is the most important task at the beginning of this call. Secondly, it is to preserve the attainment of democracy, and also to improve it and enable what we have acquired all these years, and that is freedom of expression in this Parliament, to express our political views. The third, no less important, is for the National Assembly to be a place of message to both the public and domestic and international about Serbia's strength and its freedom and independence. Fourth, to justify all the trust we have received from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the organisation is concerned, I think the most important challenge on which the candidate for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, must be to give an answer, and we have heard a lot of things these days in the discussion on how to make parliament effective, while at the same time allowing freedom of discussion. This balance between efficiency and freedom of expression of attitudes and controversy is something that we must do together first and foremost through the change of Rules of Procedure. Secondly, through a high-quality presidency and, thirdly, through respect for the initiatives of MPs in this high house. There were controversys here about how once more debated, as debated, that's true, but times over some periods from the beginning of the last century have changed, societies change faster and it's natural for the executive authority to take on a much larger part of the responsibility, has a much greater initiative towards the National Assembly in terms of the law than they used to be. It is important to make that balance so that the laws are well discussed and discussed, but not to block the government's initiative at the same time. Someone here said it was a matter of quality. It is true, but in this dynamic time, the essence is both in quality and quantity. We have to make a lot of laws, but at the same time we have a quality debate. Therefore, the laws must not remain in large numbers of procedures. The laws proposed by the MPs are what we expect from the president of the National Assembly, the candidate, who we supported by our signatures, to be in the assembly procedure, but also to discuss important national issues that are important for Serbia and for all of us: from topics like Republika Srpska, Kosovo, relations in international policy, etc. What was a problem in the preceding period, which often became a liability to the National Assembly, is law enforcement. The problem isn't in the National Assembly. There's a problem with the administration. We need to seriously deal with how to raise the level of administration that will enforce these laws, not that MPs are to blame in front of the public and citizens who pass laws that are not implemented. This is the second important segment of reform that must be done in this country – to raise the quality of the administration in order to enforce the law. Of course, much has been said these days about stability, about Parliament's reputation, about Parliament's dignity. I think that at this moment, when all Serbian citizens, all Serbs in the region and the world are watching and expecting the message that we have received from this parliament, whether the power of Serbia springs from this Parliament, whether it springs from something that they can rely on, to gain security. I don't think it's pretty much that at the beginning of this call it's saying that Parliament is real, that it's an animal farm, that I don't know what it is. We thus lower the quality and reputation of all of us here in the National Assembly. We must find a balance between the polemics and the dignity of all of us. At the same time, we need to find a balance between the exchange of political debate and the achievement of unity on the most important national issues. Right now we are all witnesses, in the entire environment of our work are attempts to create governments that will not be independent and free in their politics. Serbia must have both parliament and government to lead an independent and free policy. This is the most important challenge of this generation of politicians, to return to the values that we have once, since Serbia was created, had, to lead an independent Serbian policy, a real, wise one, respecting all national interests and respecting the circumstances in which Serbia is. That is why it is necessary for these debates to show differences between us, to reach the level that will be able to send a message that Serbia is firmly behind its national and state interests and that no one will be able to rule Serbia beyond its citizens' decisions, or to implement Serbia's policy beyond what the citizens have decided. Therefore, it is my impression that the biggest challenge for all of us here is to regain independent and free policy, how Serbia can be free again in defining its national interests. Let the national parliament be the first place we can start. It is not an easy policy and once a great Serbian statesman, Jovan Ristic, in the difficult decisions he was facing, said the same to the National Assembly: "We need to know what we want, and then move on, not waiting for something finally. Whoever wants emancipation must be ready for the victims. Is there another way for us MPs, is there another way for the future government of the Republic of Serbia? “ We expect the new presidents of the National Assembly and the future government of the Republic of Serbia to implement this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u522	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u523	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the electoral list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins in previous elections has achieved a truly impressive result that is particularly gaining weight when we know that the SNS in the previous two years has exercised power, that the RS government has implemented really difficult reforms. In such an atmosphere, even 50,000 votes higher than in 2014 are indeed a great result and a great commitment and something that in some way qualify us and gives us the credibility to propose today and the President of the Assembly, a little later and a future government that will continue that way. We think and believe that Maja Gojkovic is the best solution for the position of Parliament's president, we believe that she has a lot of parliamentary, a lot of political experience, that she has this calmness and energy that it is necessary for Parliament's president to have, even though we notice that individuals in this room feel that they have the right to dispute both the quality and credibility of our proposals, and that they have not previously come from themselves that they have not measured their election results and taken responsibility, have considered whether citizens want some other new people. I need to get back to some details of what I heard today and also the first day of the session. The former Prime Minister of our northern province of Vojvodina has now said that he is behind every political finding he has said in the past 20 years. On the other hand, a great man and a great athlete who unfortunately left us a few days ago, Muhammad Ali once said that a man who in his 50s viewed life in the same way as in the twenties had wasted 30 years of his life. Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, I think you and your president have wasted 16 years of life for the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina. That's not the worst of it, we heard today, and even three days ago when it was meant to answer the question – how is it possible that the province is supplying instead of money to its own coffin, the former Prime Minister of our northern province says - I was the Prime Minister, what do I have to do with what he did there, some secretary, some representative of the executive authority, who is normally in the hierarchy underneath him. Now, we've called today that it's not normally in the hands of the Prime Minister, that he doesn't have to deal with what people who are doing in the hierarchy are under him. That's why he is the former Prime Minister of our northern province. That's why you, Mr. Chairman, have come to call yourselves a crazy ship, that your greatest political success is to cross the census and come to the opportunity to be MPs, but I'm afraid your fellow Members of Parliament's immunity won't be much help. We also came to the point that part of the opposition in some way wants to present the winners of these elections as losers. We had a situation that my fellow citizens from Cacca, that's usually this party that advocates family values, religion, etc., that boasts that they won 24% in Chačka, and that the SNS won 40%, doesn't seem to matter. It's probably 24 bigger than 40. Then even more proudly, he says -- we won the Serbian Progressive Party even in nine constituencies, and the victory of the SNS in 87 electoral units does not matter, nine is greater than 87. I can understand that because when someone has no idea or no ideologies, then they have different ways to bend and appeal to the citizens of Serbia, and also to deal with such a kind of change of thesis. To get back to the beginning, therefore, Serbian citizens have given great support to the Serbian government's policy, but I would say in part and in the way that parliament worked in the previous two years when the president was Maja Gojkovic. When we add that Maja Gojkovic was the first on the SNS list in the province's elections where our list achieved a really big result, it gives her an additional credibility as a person. I have never been an MP in the National Assembly before, but I have heard today many colleagues say that Maja Gojkovic could be more strict with her colleagues than with the opposition, which is another indication to me that she has this power to somehow rise above party commitment and try to be one to all. So, I expect that in the next period we work day and night, work hard, be effective. I am sure that the SNS parliamentary group will contribute to retaining this house's dignity and dignity, and that in the end, Serbian citizens will be satisfied with the way parliament has functioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u524	The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this may be an opportunity to give up the discussion and speed up Mrs Gojkovic's election to this important place, so that our Assembly is as effective as in the previous period. However, I must remind us of something very important here on Friday, announced by Mr Balint Pastor, which is that after 20 years for the first time we have re-election in the National Assembly. This is mostly about the quality of the SNS proposal. We will have the president of the Assembly that we had in the previous term, which many MPs have, many politicians in Serbia have not achieved. As someone who was in the last term, I can say that Mrs Gojkovic raised the banner of democracy high and was a sign of respect for dignity in this National Assembly. Dignity is the concept we used most, and it was just that example. I think the new MPs will have a chance to see for themselves. Why is that dignity so important? The most important thing is to remember how many times it was humiliated, when we remember, Mr. Martinovic often reminds us that this assembly burned 16 years ago, that furniture, art paintings, carpets, stone lamps were taken from here, when we remember that the hand was raised to the cultural and historical heritage of our own people. It was Nero in Rome, Adolf in Berlin and some gentlemen in Belgrade. That is why they must repent, therefore there are MPs on their knees who should enter this National Assembly and that is no shame. The greatest among us, Emperor Dušan has entered the High Decane on his knees, the idea of the Holy Spirit is not sinlessness but repentance; therefore, it is time for me to repent, it is time for a given hand, and for respect of dignity. Mrs. Gojkovic, I want first of all good health, and then the successful leadership of the National Assembly at the invitation of the people and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u526	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u527	Dear Mr. Chairman, Professor. We today elect the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the highest representative body and the holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is one of the three most important functions in the country, so ladies and gentlemen this session has special significance. The Serbian Progressive Party, as a winner in the parliamentary elections, has proposed to Mrs. Maju Gojkovic as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this 11th session. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic is a very suitable person for this high state function for several reasons. I won't list all these reasons, but let me say a few reasons. First, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic performed very well this state office as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the previous 10th Assembly. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maja Gojkovic very well chaired meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the past 10th invitation to the satisfaction of both the ruling majority MPs and the opposition MPs, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs Gojkovic showed a certain kind of tolerance and understanding for opposition MPs and at certain times when she was most harshly insulted, and this specifically refers to the MPs from the DS list. I didn't leave the gym last Friday, and I listened very well to all the MPs who teach us lessons in political culture. Let me tell you something. Let's just say that my little thing that in the last session didn't leave the National Assembly's sessions to specifically deny some things. The MP, Mr. Chairman, from the DS list in the last Tenth Assembly, and today on the DS list in this 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the prime minister of the former and foreign affairs ministers, has often said insults to the name of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, as well as to the MPs of the SNS. You know very well, Chairman, that I am not one of the people's MPs I speak to by heart, let me make some arrangements. First, he, among other things, and Mr. President of that political option should know about the 5.10.2015 session of the Assembly in this high house rudely insulted Mrs. Maja Gojkovic by telling her among other things – "it is not normal", I quote. Imagine it was the former Prime Minister and he's on the list today and he was insulting today, but I can't see from here, I think he's out now. Let it continue, the MP from the DS list, and Mr. President of the party should know that the same MP was harshly exorcising the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Igor Becic, telling him, among other things, that "the cattle" is a quote. It's about political culture. The MP from the list of the same political options called SNS MPs in this large home in April 2015 – "primatima", completed a quote. That the citizens of Serbia know -- it's a translation of monkeys. The MP, the same from the DS list, and he was Prime Minister and the federal MP called the Government of the Republic of Serbia in April 2015 – "a firing machine and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u528	Please stick to the subject. We're gonna cause a lot of controversy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u529	... There was talk of political culture. Is this an example of political culture? The MP from the DS list at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia told MPs from the SNS list, I quote, "that they are bastards". On 13.10.2015, the MP from the same option rudely insulted the esteemed Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, by telling him, I quote "that his statements are on the verge of disease and that the government should be examined medically and go into history," the quote concluded. The Honorable Chairman, the same MP from the same list, on 22.10.2015, at 10 p.m. and 40 minutes at the National Assembly meeting in this high house, called SNS MPs, quoting – "the lion of dogs". And allow me in the end, the MP of the same list, 22.10.2015 in 10 and 45, called the esteemed president of the SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic, "stokom". So much, gentlemen, about political culture. I ask MPs from the opposition to give examples of whether one such insult came from this side, to specify. I'm going back to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Ms. Maja Gojkovic, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was very well followed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in the past period. She didn't break it, although sometimes she did, it was really very rare. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic is a very good lawyer and lawyer...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u530	Stick to the subject. We've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u531	... The meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are indeed very good. Ms. Maja Gojkovic has an extremely rich and fruitful parliamentary experience, which tells the fact that during the period from 1992 to 1996 she was a National MP in the Federal Assembly, and from 1996 to 2000 she served as a MP in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and, of course, she chaired this high house, which the citizens had the opportunity to see her lead this assembly. In the end, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic was the first woman mayor in the history of Novi Sad, and in my opinion she performed this responsible function, if they remember the citizens, and they remember well, and to the satisfaction of all citizens of Novi Sad and AP Vojvodina. Mr. Chairman, the former regime's party repeatedly insulted the government and the Prime Minister on Friday. I have no intention of defending the Prime Minister in this high house because he knows better than I do when he comes here, but for the public's sake, let me say four things that I would like to deny the gentleman from the opposition - whether it is true or not. This is for the truth and for the dignity of this high house. First, during the government of Aleksandr Vukic, the deficit for 2015 was 3.5 GDP, that during Alexander Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia on the 2016 World Business List took 59 positions from 189 countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u532	I can't get you back on the subject ten times. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u533	Please, lies were told on Friday. Let me take it out and deny it. That's even 32 points of improvement compared to the previous year. It's the greatest success in the last nine years, the only one on the world level. That during the government of Aleksandar Vukic, the Republic of Serbia stopped the UN resolution on the so-called The genocide in Srebrenica, ladies and gentlemen. That during Alexander Vukic, the Republic of Serbia opened its first chapters in the EU. History will write it down. I am a historian and I call on the opposition gentlemen to deny that during the government of Alexander Vukic, the Republic of Serbia stopped the admission of KIM to UNESCO. Ladies and gentlemen, I can list as many of you as you like, and I invite you, gentlemen of the MPs from the opposition, to say whether it is true or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u534	Please, let's hear the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u535	I have patience, and this is a kind of political culture. On Friday, there were many words about the 24 April 2016 election theft. I will not talk about it because it will examine certain congregation bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, as a historian, I am telling you, it will remain written that one president of a minor political party on April 24th in the late evening entered through a chimney in the attic of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia building and in a very vulgar way pressured RIK. Allow me at the very end, I was asked by my students of history and the students of the law school, because one president of the parliamentary group presented a lie on Friday, which is that Bogisic said – what the coat of arms is born, etc., to shorten the time. That's not true. That's what Marco Porcius Caton said, that's his first-century rule before the new era. Since it is a university professor of legal science, I am telling Mr. Martinovic, who teaches it at the university, to explain to him what it is in the end. I invite you, here, to the very end, to those who earn, that's the political culture they told us about on Friday, and my smallness did not open its mouth, nor threw it away. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, especially from the opposition benches, to give Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, your vote, because at least in this way you will, at least a little, participate in the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and most of the MPs of the opposition and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are helping the president of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u536	Please, Mr. Seselj, a moment. Now I hope that I will not be charged with bias towards the Democrats, because this degree of tolerance, as you have seen, has shown that even one senior MP, who has something to say, can be tolerated when it goes beyond that and all your objections to bias are falling away. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u537	I'm reporting from the Ambassador's injury. It's about Article 106(1). I don't know if I should explain where the previous speaker broke this member of the Rules of Procedure, or I hope that's clear to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u538	You haven't seen me try to channel to the subject a dozen times, but you shouldn't always be so hard or mean. So it all ended well. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic. Is it according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u539	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have answered the line since Mr. Atlagic misread my presentation. In fact, it's exactly what you said, Professor. It's about the rule of "Abinio already Jesum est", which Valtazar Bogisic took over in the General Property Code, but if I told you the Latin definition, I'm afraid you'd say again that I've cursed you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u540	Mr. Atlagic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u541	Gentlemen, the MPs, those who are new peoples, know that I never speak by heart. This is Mr. Micunović and you've made sure of that. My smallness read the stenographic notes, and this is how it stands - Bojan Pajtic Valtazar Bogisic, in the General Property Code for Montenegro, said, quote: "The coat of arms, the time does not correct". No, he translated it, you know who said it first, you're a professor of legal science, let Mr. Martinovic explain it, I think you'll understand. The students told me to take this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u542	The word has a People's MP, Bojan Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u543	So, the principle of "abinicio already josum est" is the classical principle of Roman law that was taken over in the General Property Code, as the Serbian Civil Code was essentially a translation of the General Austrian Civil Code, you should know as a professor and as a historian. There are few legal regulations that are originally ours, we've mostly taken over the legal tradition, whether it's Latin, whether it's from the General Civil Code, but I repeat once again, if I said something in Latin who knows what you'd charge me with, so I translate you into Serbian, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u544	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, at the beginning of my first presentation at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to congratulate my colleagues on the mandate, to wish us much happiness in the four-year term, to work for more than eight hours, to work day and night in the interests of Serbian citizens, to listen to each other, to hear suggestions, to ideas, to amendments, not to give each other hard words, but to give each other useful and constructive ideas. Serbian citizens who voted on April 24th in the elections and who gave huge support to the idea and vision of Alexander Vukic and the SNS policy expect responsibility from this Parliament, and each of us today asking for responsibility, asking him to work, asking him to be committed to the work for which he has been delegated to the Serbian Parliament. Why did I make this introduction? Maja Gojkovic, as a proposal for the president of this high house, also served in the previous term. Those MPs who were in the previous term in these benches know better than I do, but someone who had the opportunity to follow the regular meeting of the National Assembly, I can say that the National Assembly has been on a lot of progress since 2012. There was no protest in the National Assembly; there was more order in the National Assembly than before, the MP was respected and respected in the National Assembly. For that and the situation in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia is due, above all, the head of this House, Maja Gojkovic, until the elections, and I hope I am convinced, by the overwhelming support of the MPs of our parliament, and after the vote. We heard a lot of hard words today and Friday. The MPs of most of every name, compared to animals, have no knowledge whatsoever, that they have changed political beliefs, that they are ugly, that they are beautiful, that they are like this, that they are like this. Serbian citizens are interested in the result, the SNS and the government of the Republic of Serbia made huge shifts in Serbia's progress in the previous term. Serbia is respected today, Serbia is a respected country today, this parliament has made much progress in terms of the situation by 2012, as my colleagues have said clearly, 7% of citizens have declared in the open parliament, today it is 16%.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u546	Please get back to the subject, let's get this job done.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u547	Mr. Micunović, please, you've had a chance to show how you conducted the sessions on Friday and Friday and today a good part of the day, let me finish my presentation. So Maja Gojkovic showed her attitude and her attitude towards the MPs both on Friday and today, listening to the most difficult words by the opposition on her own account and on the account of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the parliamentary majority, she showed that she would be ready, that she was up to the task both citizens gave her and who gave each of these 131 MPs, who today are the majority in the Republika Srpska Assembly to fight for the interests of citizens. Don't fight for the interests of citizens in ugly words. Don't fight for the interests of the citizens by hiding and covering up your affairs. Don't fight that way. Fight with constructive ideas and suggestions. Give me some ideas on how to make a difference. Give me some ideas on how to make some laws and solutions better. That's what the citizens of Serbia are looking for. They don't ask you to talk about the 1990s. They're not asking us stories about the past, they're asking us how their children and our children will live in the future. That's what people are interested in. At the end of the presentation, I would like to say that with great pride and satisfaction, I will vote today for Maja Gojkovic as candidate for President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u548	He has the word Natasha Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u549	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in this debate with those colleagues and colleagues who respected the agenda and procedure in their presentation, because it has always been and there will be a way for Parliament to work effectively and how we can all raise Parliament's reputation together. So I won't make your job difficult, Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, any degradation of parliament, whether it comes from members of the ruling party, opposition or media, does not benefit anyone. On the contrary, we all suffer harm together. I've mentioned it before, and I think we should work on it. It is common for the parliamentary majority to indeed propose and elect the speaker of the assembly. There are examples in some countries, and this has not happened to us, that the opposition also votes for the speaker of the assembly. But the civilization standards and the level of democracy have gone to this extent, and I would like to mention that, because no one has mentioned it, that in some countries, such as the UK, some Scandinavian and other countries, it is out of opposition lines that the President of the Assembly is elected and that it would be guaranteed and objective action towards the opposition, and that this control function of parliament would be more pronounced. Of course, I am aware that we are far from it and that we cannot compare ourselves with one England, which is the cradle of parliamentaryism and strong-developed democracy. We are, unfortunately, with both parliamentaryism and the level of institutions in the country, still in the diaper phase. That's what we should be working on, too. The Liberal Democratic Party, and we have already pointed out in the opening statement, said Parliament Group President Cedomir Jovanovic, will not support Mrs. Maja Gojkovic as Parliament Speaker and I will not deal here with the principles or the change of those beliefs, Mrs. Gojkovic. I will not, of course, deal with the criticism of ad personam, because it was never the manner of those who represented LDP policy. I would like to say that, often as an argument for Mrs Gojkovic's election, it is a good argument, and it is also listed in a biography that is an integral part of this proposal, that Mrs Maja Gojkovic has had a rich parliamentary experience in all the Parliaments of the state since 1992. It is indeed a huge experience, but this experience then further commits and increases the expectations of all of us, and of the MPs, but also of the whole society. That's why, because of this rich experience, I'm right to tell you, I've been amazed by some of the mistakes made during these two days, starting with the appointment of the session. The former president waited almost the last day, and thus the tension and tension really grew. Anything when it's done at the last minute isn't good. I didn't like it, and I express my opposition to those tones that contributed to discrimination, sending messages of discrimination towards age. That's certainly not good. On the other hand, I would like to say that it would have been better if Mr. Chairman had at least tried to consult on the continuation of the session. Maybe we could have continued on Saturday, but well, now it's all how it turned out. I repeat, we will not vote for the election of Maja Gojkovic as Parliament's president, but we hope that the future president will respect the procedure, that he will have an objective attitude towards the opposition, that he will allow parliament to play a control role towards the government, which is very important. I would also point out that the LDP-SDA Sandzak parliamentary group will also vote for a proposal for vice-presidents. So it's three vice presidents from the SNS, one from the SPS and one from the DS. In fact, we gave the signatures to support Mrs Gordani Komic for the vice-president and one vice-president of the Movement "Enough Has Been Enough". Although we do not have a candidate, of course we are always for the agreement and for the better functioning of parliament, so we will support the election of vice presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u550	He has the word Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u551	Mr. Micunović, given these solutions that we have in our Rules of Procedure, it seems that all our discussions begin and end with me looking you in the eye and telling you, and these other discussions are observers. Because if anything were different, it would already be a reason to apply the buzzing Rules of Procedure. You, in that sense, need to say something about this agenda point. According to the Rules of Procedure, anyone who collects 30 signatures from the MPs can be a pronoun and can propose a candidate for the president of the National Assembly. Now we're in the field of good wishes, hopes and expectations. We have nothing tangible that could be a guarantee that the right choice and to be, because by the Constitution, by law and by the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly is the Authority, is the first and most important among the equals, but he is also the acting president of the Republic under certain circumstances. He also has powers that come directly from the law, and here is somehow the most important thing that is in the Rules of Procedure. Rustling the Rules of Procedure really started in 2001. The reason – to calm opposition MPs, they have too much time. Then, the second time it started with these restrictions, it was -- we have to introduce restrictions because we are about to join the EU. Well, we have 2800 laws to pass as soon as possible. Well, there were those night sessions too, so that Bologna came in about half past five in the morning. And, as you can see, Serbia is on a long-term trip, and according to some announcements, it will reach the EU door in four years. Of course, one who has the most MPs believes that he has the exclusive right to have a president of the National Assembly. However, we do have bad experience with the presidents of the National Assembly. Somehow, all these restrictions appear as boomerang, so the one who denied rights after four years becomes the victim of his normative solutions. I remember in 2003, a whole parliamentary group was expelled from the National Assembly, and even MPs who were not even in the O.R., and none were in the state, were abroad and were in the Rules of Procedure, under the authority of the National Assembly president. I remember a few years ago, we sat there, we were all thrown out because we had T-shirts with Vojislav Seselj's character. And here is Vojislav Seselj in the hall of the National Assembly. And those who threw us out are chasing to say good-bye to Vojislav Seselj. You see how variable that is. It is not good when the cannon is in hand, when the Rules of Procedure are made of general property, civil or criminal code, twenty-four hundred and some provisions. As soon as there are so many members, it's a bad legal act. Once upon a time, the Rules of Procedure was a small book with great powers for MPs, to be true representatives of the people, and then sanctions were imposed, so if someone who is in the minority can't be forced to be tolerated, imagine that diversion in the brain, most ask the minority to be tolerated. So what can they give in more? At least whoever has power, he needs to be merciful, he needs to be kind of tolerated. No, that's where it turns. Then, by the logic of things, if it snows on December 1st, then the minority is guilty because she had bad intentions. This is how it happens in the National Assembly, and sometimes with these solutions in the Rules of Procedure, we have had relatively decent practices. I will remind Predrag Markovic, who was president of the National Assembly in one term, there were no warnings, there was no punishment, and there was in the Rules of Procedure. A perfectly decent discussion was, even at that time, 15 minutes after the amendment. He's reached for punishment twice. For the first time, he punished his party's president, Mladjan Dinkic, and for the second time punished an opposition MP, not because he wore pajamas when to arrest Mladjan Dinkic or for talking about the National Assembly being a safe house for Ratko Mladic, but for a very trivial reason. I also remember Dulic, who did not want to punish the MPs, but allowed a decent debate. But when the president of the National Assembly of Women's Gender, experience is dangerous, a wave of punishment all over the place. And in your opinion, you can commit a serious offense, be punished, not know why you're being punished because, apparently, someone didn't like it because you can slow Serbia down on that path to the EU. Look at the wonders, in all these inventions a few years ago we received in the National Assembly and pro-EU power and pro-EU opposition and so began to be called. This is a pro-European government, this is a pro-European opposition, difficult for the EU, because they are neither Eurofanatics nor Eurosceptics. What makes them different? We had another novelty. If a debate starts, some facts arise, then an argument arises as to how many votes are cast in the elections and who has the mandate. It is the Supreme Court, both for the facts and for the truth and for justice and for justice. There was another argument. If you're criticizing, then I ask you, are you for the EU? If so, how can you criticize? This has been approved by the European Commission. Of course, to differ in something, it goes for different facts, different means of fighting, and then it gives a picture of which everyone can interpret what they want and how they want. The third phenomenon has also appeared in the National Assembly since 2000, which is – I have good wishes, I have good hopes, good beliefs. Why do you criticize my wishes, my hopes and my beliefs? For God's sake, they all swore they'd work to change the Constitution, and they swore to obey the Constitution. There's a lot going on here. We now have a situation where someone who is in a government says that since that big discussion in the National Assembly, there will be no job opening, it will not be better for the citizens. But he didn't give us proof that when he was silent about opening jobs and that people were better off. So, it is forbidden here to criticise some law, to propose better solutions, to impose sanctions on the Rules of Procedure, not by law, so that the function of National Assembly President is approximately in the ranks of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In the Cassation Court there are both civil and this other larger, and here we have a universal individual who is authorized. There's this problem that we don't have democratic authority. Obviously, as a people, we are not prepared to let him down, and everything and everything is presented to us as an authority that can use its discretionary powers and that we hope they will not be abused, so just to hope. You have seen for yourself, the proposal for a National Assembly president is explained to have a rich parliamentary experience. It's about like - I own a car. Explain to me - what is the benefit of Serbia that I own a car? It's still said, in all stimuli. There's something wrong with you. It's not exactly in all the stimuli. But it doesn't matter. Whoever has gathered thirty and some signatures and has more right to do so can choose, and we are left to hope, that this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly will, however, be normal, that all MPs can present their views on the proposals of the law, that criticism may be heard. Well, I don't know, if the MP is not free and free, then how can we guarantee the citizens that they are free and free? It's a very difficult situation. So we're left to believe, to hope. I expect that in the next four years, we will not change those 200 laws for the 16th time because only 200 laws have been spinning since 2003, more precisely since 2000. Look at those 200 laws, six, seven, eight or ten times they've been changed, and some six or seven times again and nothing has changed significantly. Where's that benefit for the citizens, and they're hoping for that improvement? There's no such thing as an improvement. Of course, it's not the Rules of Procedure's fault, but MPs need to be freed, the president of the National Assembly needs much more to be a speaker, he needs to have the elemental democratic authority, the ability and the willingness to apply what some standards are. Standards do not have to be found only in norms, they are also found in good customs, even in the need to hear different opinions and opposite opinions. It can also steam ears, but it's better to steam ears in the building of the National Assembly than outside this room. Thank you, Mr. Micunović. I hope you didn't take it personally from what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u552	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, not exactly 30, but just over 130 MPs, suggested that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic be the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia again on that list, which received more than 1,820,000 votes, so that Serbian citizens gave the right to our list. That, of course, no one has even challenged, to propose a president of the National Assembly who, I am convinced, as in the previous term, and in the next leads well, I am even better convinced of the National Assembly, regardless of what is now a different composition, regardless of what we have different political options in parliament. But it can only be our wealth, it doesn't have to be a problem if we're all responsible, if we do the job we've been chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the right way. What Mrs. Maju Gojkovic sets out at this point is not only an experience, not just enough internship in parliaments, even knowledge, because there was a second-largest city in Serbia, full term for four years, so she knows how the state system and local self-government and the National Assembly works. Besides, there's a lot of experience in something that hasn't been mentioned here. We're used to the government being the one running diplomacy and doing these kinds of jobs. However, in the world there is also developing particularly in Europe parliamentary democracy, and that is something where the Serbian Parliament has really made progress in recent years and is doing better and better. I think it is extremely good in the previous term, some of my colleagues and colleagues talked about it, indeed the Serbian Parliament hosted many distinguished guests, statesmen, various delegations, held various seminars attended by MPs from all over Europe, participated in the work. We often had guests here and people from the diplomatic court ambassadors to Belgrade. So, it was active and alive in the past two years while Maja Gojkovic led parliament and I know it will be even better in the next four years. There are some things we need to understand here too, and we have a lot more work to do, and that story about whether we're going to be working late or not. In the process of European integration, 35 chapters will be opened in the next few years, even faster than that and in a certain period all 35 chapters should be closed. We must participate in this in different ways. We also have a committee in common with the European Parliament, where our 15 MPs sit and their 15, every six months we have joint meetings where we are just talking about how Serbia is progressing and how the European Parliament can help us. It can't be done by the government, it's what we have to do. On the other hand, no chapter can be opened as you have seen, and it cannot be closed until 28 European parliaments do so, does not hold a debate about us and finishes the job plus the EU parliament. Who's going to talk to those MPs? Well, certainly not one foreign and foreign minister in Serbia, that's what we're going to do and that's our job. And that's why the citizens elected us, and that's why we're going to finish the job, because earlier years it wasn't done, but ever since Maja Gojkovic was president of the Assembly, the MPs of the Republic of Serbia whether they were in power or the opposition were actively involved. This makes it a better picture of Serbia, which is why we are making better progress even faster. That is why this job will be completed in the next elected term of office, these days of the government we will choose, in the term of office of this parliament in the next four years. And that is another reason why we should all support Maja Gojkovic. All SNS MPs and all those who were with us on the list will, I repeat, support more than 130 of us, I see that there will be more votes, because that is our obligation, that is our choice, and that right has given us more than a million and 820,000 citizens who voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u554	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we said we'd be working for over six hours. Now it's over six, almost half past seven, so please speed up the work if you want us to finish at least at a decent time by eight o'clock. So I appeal to everyone to take care of it regardless of those who care about it quickly, and to those who care about it longer. So now I'm taking a break, ten minutes, and after that, we're moving on. [[after breaks]] Gentlemen, we are continuing our work. It's almost over, so I'm asking you to contribute to that end. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u556	I'll be quite brief. It is obviously necessary to complete this session, where the president and vice-presidents of the Assembly and the secretary are elected. It began very unfortunate on Friday, because what is the pain of our parliamentaryism has shown, and I have been in various parliaments for a long time, it is a terrible intolerance. Since there is both quoted literature and world and proverbs, and we have also reached politician Caton from ancient Rome, then I will quote you something the Romans have said, and they were smart "The greatest authority is power over themselves". There is no more power than power over itself, and that power is always best seen when you are most. When you are a minority, you also need to restrain yourself and control what you say, but when you are most of it directly endangers the work of parliament. We've had criticism here, which was expected, it's normal to assume that when the president of parliament is elected to criticise the majority, whether it's measured or not, justified, unwarranted, there are certainly different views. But when the parliamentary majority corresponds, it must not do what was characteristic of Friday and today, to a certain extent, and that is to answer by insulting anyone who speaks. It's sometimes said ad homine, and in fact you're not talking about the measure of what a man said, but you're insulting him. We had statements that there was a thief here, that he had pumpkins. That is how it can be discussed in parliament, but then there will be no parliamentary work and parliamentary life. Then parliament will be just a replica, a replica and a replica. If I don't have to do something, otherwise I never do it, we'll just have a parliament that's going to be dysfunctional. This parliament will have a slightly different job than parliaments have so far. Serbia will have to pass many new laws on this path to European integration, to amend existing laws. That means, hard work is expected to be necessary. This hard work can only be achieved so that parliament functions normally. If parliament doesn't function normally from that job it won't be anything and this will be one, if I may say so, for nothing. And to the very end, when it is constantly said that parliament is a legislative body, which is absolutely true, it is always lost in our eyes that parliament is also controlling the application of the laws it has passed. Parliament is the control body legislatively, not just the body that makes the laws and then doesn't care what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u557	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u558	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me begin this address in the same way as my colleagues Markovic and fellow Filipovic, as well as others who have done it, congratulations, congratulations to everyone who has earned the mandates and calling MPs in a fair way in the election game, and I mean who I think we don't need to discuss today. There's something much more important going on in this room today. Let me wish everyone a good and successful mandate, and many good decisions that we will all be proud of together, decisions that will benefit our beloved country and our people. I express clear unambiguous support for the proposal to elect Mrs Gojkovic for the president of the National Assembly in this conference, and this support is based on the good reasons we heard in today's debate, which concerns both her legal knowledge and her great parliamentary experience, which I consider important. The experience of a man is somehow a special measure when he forms his impressions about it, and the important state duties he has performed, but I am returning to experience, the duties of the president of the National Assembly in the previous tenth session. I'm going to do my best to show an economic relationship with time, and here's instead of making any comments today on the grades we've heard in the debate so far, I'm going to leave my comments for another chance. I would like to underline once again that Mrs. Gojkovic's work in the previous tenth session by organising the work we've been doing together in this room has shown everything she needs to show the true president of the National Assembly. So, both a dignified relationship and a democratic manner in chairing sessions and tolerance that requires both evaluations and tact when it comes to living debate, but which does not mean the absence of rules. On the contrary, which implies respect for the rules and procedures in which we organise our work, because without order we cannot even express creativity in the right way. One responsible relationship in every sense, all in one sentence. I believe that it is a great credit for the president and for all the good that relates to the call itself, that is, the Parliament itself and the good performance of the control role of the National Assembly that has been spoken of today, if it is unequivocally any of us bear witness to much of what we will talk about in more detail. Nearly 500 different clarifications requested by the MPs, the good sessions we had together with the representatives of the government here on a good correct atmosphere that formed on that occasion. And making sure that the Rules of Procedure is properly respected and that every MP of the people, regardless of which side he sits in this room, is worthy of dignity. Mrs. Gojkovic, in my humble opinion, has done every single one of these tasks outstandingly. I will give myself the right to invite you all together together to support the proposal that Maja Gojkovic be the president of the National Assembly at 11. It's a stimulant. I know there were no positive reactions from everyone in this room to this proposal, but I will still repeat it, not because of the majority itself and because of the decision, most clearly and since the beginning of this debate there is. The signatures supported the proposal by everyone on this side of the hall. So, for us, and for Alexander Vukic, in these elections from the list - Serbia wins; more than half and colleagues from other parliamentary groups, which I commend and for what I thank. Even those who expressed themselves negatively to the idea said by accident or not, willingly or not, but I heard it at least twice during the debate today and Friday, that in a certain context, Mrs Gojkovic is the best proposal, and also those who said that because they are not satisfied with the atmosphere they will not vote, I am sure that this is quite the opposite argument, that the atmosphere as we had, which we want to be better, it must be a better, good reason to get the President of Parliament in full capacity. I repeat the call to give this support to the common forces and because whoever was explicitly negative on that proposal wasn't here in the previous session, and we talked about it here. We explained it, I'll explain it one more time. It's not a ladies and gentlemen call for any one-mindedness or anything like that, it's an invitation to a slogan. We talked about it here let everyone say what he thinks first when he looks at the wall above the main chair in this room. I see a state sign on it, I see a shield on it that contains the glasses that carry the message – only the style. Surely a good reason is behind the message left by our old man that every time we look at our state sign, let's think again about why this slogan is important and what it means, not to be the main message that we send to the citizens of Serbia who are looking at all this, for moments of a very painful atmosphere from this session, let it be a message, even if it's symbolic, that we can understand things that are good for the country, that we can talk to each other, that we can show a parliamentary spirit, that we can be human. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I underline once again, it is not a message of unification with which we came to Serbian citizens this spring, something that only citizens need to understand, although it is not alone. Half-assed support is something worth paying attention to. That's something we need to understand each other about in this room. This call exists on this occasion and on every occasion when we discuss good, important things, things for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Mrs. Gojkovic, allow me to congratulate and wish you good work. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u559	He has the word Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u560	The Serbian Radical Party and its parliamentary group sincerely want democracy back in Serbia, especially where it is a natural place for democracy to develop, in parliament. Parliamentary democracy is the only way for Serbia to come out of the general crisis. What the SRS has made clear when it comes to this point of the agenda is that we will not support the candidacy, a proposal for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, regardless of what the general public knows that it comes from the old radical family, but we cannot support and give support to this proposal that Maja Gojkovic presides, i.e. to be president of the Assembly. Of course, we, first of all, want to concentrate our work on what is a burden for parliament, for parliamentary democracy, and to sort of release this ballast that has pushed Serbia, and especially the Serbian Parliament where very, very important decisions are made. These pressures are different natures and they last for years already. We are aware of this fact that one reason, one natural order of things, is that the executive government always wants to dominate the legislative one. It is not characteristic of the previous assembly, nor of the recent, nor of this, it has always been present that the executive government wants to subdue parliament to its interests, so that the executive authority can implement a policy they consider to be the right policy. Parliament needs to resist. How, in what way? Well, first of all, that parliament should clearly define some internal matters relating to the status and position of MPs. This is done by withdrawing one of the first moves, and it is a change of the Rules of Procedure on the work of parliament. Less or less dominated in these debates these days, one opinion that the Rules of Procedure, the existing Rules of Procedure, has been overcome, that it is restrictive, that it is not in favour of the development of debate and parliamentary life, and that which is very significant, puts each of the citizens of Serbia in an unspeakable position. What the SRS parliamentary group suggests is that the sooner you access this business, the sooner you form a working group. The working group will be tasked with giving all those provisions that are restrictive when it comes to the position and functioning of MPs out of this Rules of Procedure, that those powers that give a broad opportunity to both the president and those who chair the Assembly of Changes drastically in terms of reducing their authority, to try first and foremost to cast out what is the fluid of ingenuity and resourcefulness of one of the earlier calls, which is that the president or chairman has the most powerful weapon, which is that speech, thinking, exposure to each of us can end the push on one button, which is only available to him. The other thing to pay attention to is the overauthority and authority of the chairman, especially the president, when it comes to the debate. We are witnesses that even the situation in this Rules of Procedure is defined when the president or the chairman can interrupt the MP whom the people have elected and, by giving his opinion, clearly take away his word by interpreting that the MP is not in the agenda. We come to situations like these that sometimes are funny. Let us not run away from real life, we have seen that at times they are chaired by the congregation and people who are not qualified to evaluate or evaluate someone’s speech, especially the speech and presentation of MPs. We've come into a situation and we've been witnessing that people who have acquired degrees in a very, very suspicious way since high school, college, so God forbid some and doctoral dissertation, evaluate and assess whether someone is in the topic and whether someone is competent or professional to discuss certain points of the agenda. Almost a man doesn't believe it. You have a case that the man who chaired this assembly has graduated from an emergency high school in Sokolac, in an air spa. For all four years of schooling, he had an average score of 2.00. He suspectedly obtained a university degree, and then, when he got to the presidency, he began rigorously to apply the measures to the MPs by even giving himself the right to assess and assess whether he was an MP in the topic and whether he was talking about the points of the agenda, and it was seen by him himself, I say only an example, it doesn't matter what birth he was, whether he was female or male, and it was seen that he didn't even read that material himself. Here, I'm just getting a name and a last name, and that's Mr. Igor Becic, who clearly showed that he had no idea about the material being discussed, but he also knew how he used the presence of cameras to show how significant he was. This is just a warning for the sake of it. We see that it is already a reaction by the assembly majority, they have not even put it as vice president, which is a major advance in the development of democracy. What has been present in this House so far is that in fact, parliamentary life has been simulated. How simulated? By the fact that there were several different political parties in this House, different by name, with one single basic idea and goal, which is – Europe has no alternative. You can think of what it looks like to the citizens of Serbia when the debates are being held here, bile or less bile, until late morning, and then come to a conclusion, to the devastating fact, that everyone sitting here has clearly said that Europe has no alternative. And that was one frame outside that this Parliament didn't go to. It is up to us, Serbian radicals, to try to get as many of our colleagues out of this framework as possible. Life alone doesn't have an alternative, everything else does. Therefore, you must get used to that there are Serbian radicals who have the opposite opinion, but that opinion does not have to be a stumbling block. We want to contribute first and foremost to the changes of the Rules of Procedure. What kind of Rules of Procedure is he gonna be? Well, it's best to stick to that old Pasic, when he asked about the rules on the work of parliament at the time, they told him – the president, he's great, he's in our favor. He said – it's no good, make him use it has the most opposition, because one day by logic things and nature and we will be opposition. So you must always keep in mind, when you approach this business, if there is a change in the Rules of Procedure, it must be borne in mind that one day, like all of us, you will be an opposition. In this spirit, we want to contribute to our suggestions, our work, our direct participation. What is obviously noticeable, is that parliament has in some way already made it clear through its majority what the priorities are when it comes to legislative action in terms of law-making. First of all, it is clear that the priority of all priorities, as we have heard, is to change the Constitution. According to us Serbian radicals, we were never against it, but we always claimed that it was not time to approach this business to change the constitution. There are many more priority legislative actions to be approached in order to get Serbia out of this overall crisis. The constitution is something to wait for. Everyone politically responsible sees that the objective and task of changing the Constitution is to get rid of, above all, preambles that clearly define the status and status issue of KIM. You're not suggesting that someone believes that the Constitution is changing because the number of MPs needs to be reduced, are you? There are also proposals where we agree in some way that a possible change in the Constitution should be made, a member should be adopted where parliament would elect the president of the state, and that is something that is acceptable as a principle for us Serbian radicals, especially in the current situation when we experience the shame that the presidents are choosing from Brussels, at five o'clock in the afternoon, and the elections last until eight o'clock. If it is already such a shame and such humiliation why not put in and the possibility that parliament or not to consider the possibility of parliament choosing the president, and even if we argue and argue, we are discussing which Serbian people, who were elected by Serbian citizens, rather than imposing a fraud on us, are being deceived by the president of the state. A very important role is also for Parliament's president in this business where, apart from this function, the leader or speaker, they say, parliament has a certain political weight. In the case of, God forbid, the president of the state is absent or, in the particular case of Tomislav Nikolic, to be involved in scientific work in the coming period, will be replaced by Parliament's president. It requires a lot of time from him, a lot of energy, a lot of power, he'll hardly be able to perform that function, so maybe he'll apply to be temporarily absent. He doesn't need much time to pass his exams, though. He passed it much sooner than we spent time on our discussions, I mean college, and you can think of a doctoral dissertation in a short time, but that time the president of the Assembly should replace the president of the state to perform and how responsible functions. For this reason, we Serbian radicals warn about the political weight of Parliament's president. We don't want to talk about something that Serbian citizens don't already see and don't know. They know Serbia's citizens well, and they were eyewitnesses when some statesmen came to this parliament and so condescendingly, the majority of the parliament acted obediently, almost giving lessons from representatives of other states that it would take parliament and Serbian parliamentarians to behave. There was no reaction in the sense that at least it was a warning that it was basic order and culture to respect the host, so when you come at least to respect that you don't give a lesson to those people who chose that state. There have been cases, almost ridiculous situations, which have already gone into legend when the chairman of the Assembly literally insults representatives of other countries in the worst possible way, so we attended when the Serbian Parliament chairman called the president of Italy, one of the meat products – Mortadeli, so on the question of my fellow MPs – who he was, so who else would he be than Igor Becic. Don't think we're loaded with names and names. We know everything, but we're just making an example of how we shouldn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u561	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u562	... and what a shame, when it comes to the functioning of parliament. What the SRS still wants is to seriousise the work of this parliament and it was seen that it was right for the president of the SRS and the president of the parliamentary group when he said -- everyone else will be circusers, and only we Serbian radicals will be seriously involved in parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u563	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u564	Dear Chairman, as you know by the Rules of Procedure, I should now have a line, because I have been mentioned by name and last name several times, but if you think I'm going to descend to Mr Milorad Mircic and some MPs, you're wrong. That's all they say about them, not me and the SNS. Their biggest problem is that I've been 20 years and a lot and I know them well enough and I know who they are and what they are. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u565	You want to do business?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u566	Mr. Micunovic, this is about abuse of the right to replication. The replica cannot represent a return of insults to the facts presented. Here Mr Mircic presented two facts: that in a suspicious way Igor Becic obtained a university degree, that he had graduated from high school in the woods somewhere, etc. and that he called the tall Italian statesman George "Mortadele". This is where the question arises – is it true or not? If it's not true, he should have said – it's not true. He didn't say at all whether it was true or not, but simply reciprocated with insults. It's abuse of the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u567	In the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, injured members should be listed. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u568	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, Igor Becic is not the subject of the agenda. We elect the president of the National Assembly and talk about the candidate for National Assembly President, which is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. As an authorised representative of all the candidates for the National Assembly president, I would like to thank, above all, all the MPs who discussed this debate, whether they discussed for or against Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. What I can't understand is that within the agenda point, which is – Selecting the president of the National Assembly, we talk about where Igor Becic graduated from high school and how he graduated from college. As far as I know, high school and college ended when he was a member of the SRS. I don't understand how it's possible that you didn't mind at the time, and now it's suddenly bothering you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: It is the cryo. ) Mr. Seselj, now if you want us to make a point, I could now ask a question – what is the scientific value of your master's thesis "Marxist concept of armed people" or what is the scientific value of your doctoral dissertation? You say you're a doctor of legal science, and your dissertation is called "the political essence of militarism and fascism," and then you analyze what Lenin said, what Marks said, what he said or that classic Marxism said. So, if we were to go into cutting down someone's high school or high school diploma, then this congregation could go on forever. I think that, Mr. Micunovic, it doesn't make any sense and that it should, in the spirit of what we agreed yesterday... So, we agreed to remind the citizens of Serbia yesterday at consultations that the National Assembly has seven vice-presidents, we agreed to continue the work of the National Assembly, we adopted a proposal by all opposition parties to vote unitedly on all candidates for vice-presidents because the opposition gentlemen asked for a guarantee that their vice-president would be elected and we agreed to that. Today, we have agreed to be told the greatest possible insults, to be pronounced curses, to be threatened, here in the worst possible way is the man who is a MP, a colleague, just like all of us. He is neither a candidate nor a speaker, nor a candidate for the Vice-President of the Assembly. So that tone and that manner of dealing with people who once belonged to the same political party, I don't understand. But if someone thinks it's a good thing and it's a good policy, as far as the SNS MPs' party is concerned, let's just keep it going. As for these fossils, how does the SNS allegedly say that the EU allegedly has no alternative, sorry, and when someone said that from the SNS? At first, we were created for a month by some artificial tension whether Croatia would unblock our negotiations on Chapter 23 with the EU or not. We didn't say anything. Or rather, the Prime Minister said -- we did our part, whether they're going to unblock or not, that's their thing. And unblocked. Then they asked Wolfie why he wasn't thrilled that they'd unblocked? He said -- we did what was up to us, to meet the conditions for opening chapters, and whether the chapter will be open or not, so it does not depend on us, it depends on the EU. Croatia, unfortunately, or fortunately, is an EU member and, how many, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, few of you. There are few of you. So here's why I'm saying this, there's no enthusiasm here in the sense that someone said that the EU has no alternative and that there will be an end to the world if we don't join the EU. We are for the EU because we believe that the better economic community of countries in Europe is not there. Is everything in the EU great – it is not, but the fact is that better-organised justice, environmental protection, agriculture, etc., does not exist but in the EU. And our strategic commitment is that one day, if possible by 2020, we meet the conditions to become a full member of the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u569	Mr. Martinovic, talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u570	So now the theme here was Sokolac, Igor Becic, EU, a lot of the topic is open here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u571	I wanted to finish it, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u572	Well, there's a lot of issues open here, Mr. Micunovic. Now I have to look back on each of these topics. I'm sorry, but I have to. Officially, I have to say what it was all about. On the other hand, one party here claims to have an exclusive monopoly, that it is Serbian, national and Russian. And then here you have Dvori, DSS etc., who say the same thing – no, no, we are authentic Serbs. We're authentic Orthodox, we're authentic Russian, and now there's a dead race between radicals, Dverry, DSS who's a bigger Serb, who's a bigger patriot and who's more for Russia. Who's Russia for? Well, she said. That is also well explained by Mrs Aleksandra Djurovic, the only party in this part of Europe with which Unique Russia has an agreement on co-operation, is SNS. Thank you, Mr. Beard, for being so polite. So, Mr. Sergei Železnjak, Secretary General of the United Russia, was not only at the SNS final rally, but signed a co-operation agreement with us. We will be visited by Russian Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev. Mr. Vukic, as Prime Minister, if I am not mistaken, correct me if I am mistaken, has met with Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin at least six times. So, what Russia thinks of the parties running this country, she said. She doesn't need lawyers, at least I don't think she needs lawyers sitting here in the National Assembly. He knows Russia who leads Serbia, where it leads it and how it leads it, and if Russia has any objections to it, it says so through its official authorities. What a great force it would be if she fell for lawyers in the National Assembly to be represented by individual MPs here in the National Assembly. In that sense, Mr. Micunovic, here we are ready to move on. Let's get on with the work of the National Assembly. You can end as far as we're concerned, seeing as you're always talking about it being time to finish, but on the other hand, we're ready to fight. As president of the SNS Group, I am prepared to endure all possible insults that will now come to me in the face of both DSS and DSS and SRS and Dvori, etc., and to call me by no name. It's all right, I'll take it all, but... Well, Mr. Seselj, I wasn't very chatty when I was gathering statements and witnesses to defend you in The Hague. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're the one who's insulting me. I have no problem with what Vojislav Seselj will tell me or what Bojan Pajtic and all those who hold the Rules of Procedure in the air will say to me, I just want to tell you one thing, while I am a representative of the SNS Group, I will defend the SNS MP each, regardless of whether his name is Igor Bečić, Marija Obradovic, Maja Gojkovic, came from this part or that part of Serbia. And what I'm doing, don't get it wrong in the sense that I've got something against you, I'm extremely esteemed and esteemed, but I won't let anyone throw mud at any SNS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u573	Mr. Martinovic, as long as I chair this assembly, I can determine when it will end. So I warned you not to extend into the night by unnecessary debate that we are opening outside the agenda. Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u574	The first thing, Igor Becic was mentioned as an example of the irresponsible behaviour of Maja Gojkovic, who most often left him to replace her in the management of the work of the National Assembly if she were absent and that is the fact. What kind of school falicans they are, and they're facts. And that he called the tall Italian statesman George Mortadele and that's a fact and a great shame for Serbia. Secondly, an idiot is everyone who deals with social sciences without mastering the theoretical opus and Marks and Engels and Lenin. That is absolutely impossible, it will be confirmed by Mr. Micunovic, I hope. It is such a fundamental act that it must be known by every serious theorist, to learn and to be better criticized. Third, I received my doctorate in the constitutional-legal political direction of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. My doctoral dissertation and master's work are exposed to the court of the public and I'm proud of them. The one who does not give me the very subject I was dealing with shows that he has no idea about anything, but I have never done anything dishonest like Aleksandar Martinovic, who was kicked out of the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad when he was a member of the SRS, because he was found there to have shown the same papers several times under other titles to get more points if he made progress. That's why he was expelled and it was one of the basic motives that moved to SNS to get him back there. The fourth thing, those who took statements and who worked most for my defence, they were accused before The Hague tribunal, and the role of Aleksandar Martinovic was not to say insignificant, but rather irrelevant.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u575	Thank you. The word is "Verica Radet," according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Micunovic, although it has been said here these days that only the President of the National Assembly can harm the Rules of Procedure, of course, any good lawyer will know that it is not true, because if the President or Chairman gives notice to the MP because he has violated the Rules of Procedure, then that means that every MP can violate the Rules of Procedure, Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u577	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u578	Slowly, patiently. Member 107, Mr. Micunovic. So, the 107th member did not hurt you, he injured Aleksandar Martinovic because he violated the dignity of the National Assembly by insulting the dignity of the MPs of the team to defend Vojislav Seselj. I was the lead investigator on the team Vojislav Seselj, although Mr. Seselj said earlier that Martinovic had played some role in collecting statements for his defence, I argue he never took any statements. He did talk to some of the people we later did the legal work with, and Mr. Martinovic never did anything to defend Dr. Vojislav Seselj, and he needs the public to know and can't appreciate what he didn't do, as he used to do with these scientific papers, which is why I'm finishing, I'm asking, please, for these scientific papers that under different names the same scientific paper published was because of the points, but also because every publication was paid, so later because of the five political functions he changed the party, the paid functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u579	Mrs. Radeta, it's no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There's time, you'll all get your turn. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: I'm under attack by 50, I guess I can say something. I gave my word before that. Here you go. Please, we're bringing this to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u580	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, here is probably the first break I took today and a few minutes outside of the hall where this session is taking place, and Mr. Martinovic did not miss that moment to mention me, from which I can conclude that he has some special fascination and need to mention the Dvori. But what made me happy in his address, which I followed here outside the O.R., is two important things. First, that the SNS is making a certain turn towards Euroscepticism, and after many years it comes to the positions of the Dvora and realizes that the EU is not exactly the path without an alternative, which I absolutely must welcome. I think it's the right thing to do, if SNS keeps going that way. The second thing, what I must say and point out, and to further point out is the position of the Serbian Dvora movement that has been misrepresented. So we're not blondes. We're sick. We are firstly interested in the Serbian people and the state, and we believe that at this point the best way to achieve Serbian national and state interest in strategic co-operation with Russia is in political, economic and military security terms, which is our legitimate foreign policy position.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u581	Mr. Beard, please, let's go away, wait.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u582	So Mr. Martinovic gave us one chance, I thank him for that, to point to these two extremely important things. The first is that the SNS understands the importance of our political formula - less the EU and more Russia. It is something that should be the foreign policy orientation of the Serbian state in the coming period, as well as, of course, to clarify the exact position of the Serbian Dvora Movement, which will always be on the side of Serbian and Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u583	Time, thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u584	Here, now that I hear what I've done and what I've done, then I've got clear words from a late man who told the previous speaker there's no Serb, no man. But he will be recognized and who he said it to and to whom those words were addressed. As for you big Serbs, big Serbs, etc., Mr. Seselj, this is your September 2008 letter: "Brother Serbs and sisters, Serbian radicals, members of the central country administration... “ etc. so as not to read all: “We want to be an equal partner in the EU without conditioning with KIM as part of the Republic of Serbia.” To whom it is unclear, he can find a letter from Mr. Vojislav Seselj online.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u585	I give you my word... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Replica, this is the new thing brought out. But one minute. (Igor Becic, from the post: Mr Micunović, I have previously been entitled to replication. I've mentioned my name and last name several times. I have the right to a replica. ) Here you go, first Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u586	Your Honor, this is the last time I answer when my name is mentioned in the National Assembly, but I have an offer for Mr. Seselj. Since I know Sokolac is a wonderful place in Republika Srpska, but unfortunately I've never been, if it proves that I have anything to do with Sokolac and I've finished college there, too, if it proves that I've said the word "mortadela" and we have a video on YouTube and you can hear what I said, too, if it finds that I have anything to do with a dubious college, I'm willing to resign at the same time. If all this isn't true, I'd ask you to resign, Mr. Seselj. Also, this is exactly the kind of thing that makes you have my biography on the National Assembly site in depth from the first day to the last day and you can see everything and check everything, but like I said, this is about you. You didn't mind me going to your house in Batajnica, and it bothers you today when I sit in the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u587	The word has a People's MP, Vojislav Seselj, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u588	I definitely expressed my attitude towards the EU in my political will, which I almost breathed, thank God, I did not definitely exhale, dictated on the phone to my closest associates in December 2006. This alleged 2008 letter of mine, Mr. Martinovic knows well, was written in Belgrade, of course according to my instructions. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Who wrote it, me? I don't even know who. But what's the point? The point is that we had a political position at the time – if the EU offers membership negotiations, we want to participate in negotiations provided that KIM is recognised as an integral part of Serbia and our MPs have repeated that political stance in both the Federal and the Republic of Serbia for years. As for this suddenly-increasing Russian philosophy at SNS, I can only say hello, because if you're not aware that you're being prepared from the west by a noose around your neck, then you're completely lost. You will have to return to our positions if you think, not just you to survive, but Serbia to survive while in power, you will have to. Your papers say what the Americans are preparing in Belgrade. And now you say -- it's not true that the EU... (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And you will save us from it? It is not true what you are saying now, that you kept saying that the EU has no alternative. It has an alternative for the EU and it is clearly now presented to us... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u589	Time. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You can make as much noise as you want, as if your mass were of great interest to me. There's a lot of you today, tomorrow you'll be a little bit, the day after tomorrow you'll be gone. Time, Mr. Seselj, is up. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Here I am. You cut my power, and it's like you turned my air off. I've got half a minute. We gotta finish this tonight, guys. We have another speaker, and I'd like to end it. On the basis of Article 104, I can estimate whether it says here it makes sense to continue the controversy or not. So, since it's all moving beyond the subject, beyond the agenda, then we're going to leave all this controversy for the next period. There's time, so we'll finish it. Now I give my word to the last speaker, Aleksandra Tomic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Can I have the word? We're done. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Can I get the word as an authorised promoter?) If I'm not afraid, what are you afraid of? You had one, he had one... (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Just two minutes, you have to give me a word. I can't right now. Don't make me interrupt the session and then we'll keep it on Tuesday, if you're not up to it. I don't have another dilemma, or I'm gonna let this go at midnight, or I'm breaking up. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Please, I answered the word. There's a word by Aleksandra Tomic, you'll say later. Please, there's still time for every boss to say something at the end. (Alexander Martinović, from the city: I report to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u590	I really don't understand, Mr. Micunovic, why you're doing this. So if I don't have any fear of what Vojislav Seselj is going to tell me, I don't know what you have. But, here, since you don't give me another word, I'm reporting from Article 107's injury. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm here accused of being a forger, of doing nothing for Vojislav Seselj, of being expelled. Who told you I was expelled from the Law School in Novi Sad? Now you're telling me -- it's written in Belgrade, and you're accusing me of being a forger. Well, in your letter, here it says here, I don't know who forged this -- lived the SRS, lived the great Serbia. In The Hague on 11 September 2008. It's very funny, it is. Now, this was September 11, 2008, Mr. Seselj, and if I am not mistaken, there was a vote in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the SAA on 8 September. The deal was that if the government adopts all amendments, interpretative SRS amendments to the SAA, we vote in favour of the SAA. You have last minute changed the decision not to vote for the SAA on 8 September 2008, and three days later you write a letter in which you say – lived the SRS, lived Serbia big, and – we want to be an equal partner in the EU without conditions with Kosovo and Metohija in the part of the Republic of Serbia. Who here fakes who? Who made what up here? Who's here for Russia and who's for the EU? I think things are very clear and very clean here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u591	We have another speaker, and after that, the heads of the parliamentary groups will be given a word, and they will have a chance to speak again. We can't return the replica three times. Now he has the word Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u592	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, today we are due to bring to an end the session we were due to conclude on Friday. One of the most solemn sessions, just when one election is over, is the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. All of what you have written in your book on parliamentaryism has simply been tested in practice, because for the first time in 24 years in this House, a constitutional session has been interrupted. All what we call democracy means the rule of the majority over the minority is the opposite today, because today we have had a case here to hear the worst insults to those who represent the majority. The majority are simply citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What needs to be said is that the story of the asphyxiation of parliamentaryism, which was tried to be placed here by opposition parties, says exactly one bad, failed attempt to attack the government of Mr. Vukic and the list of Alexander Vukic, but also to attack institutions. Why? When you have no political arguments, then you begin to insult yourself. We've had a very good example of this now, even when it comes to Mr. Becic, but also when it comes to our candidate, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. The personal insults of this type did not bother anyone, even when the media was crucifying Mrs. Maja Gojkovic at the time when she represented the president of the Serbian Parliament, when she represented all MPs on her way to Iran, when she respected the protocol of the foreign state, when none of the MPs followed, and not even one newspaper association cared about the protection of Maja Gojkovic as parliament president, or all of the Serbian Parliament's MPs. Why am I saying this? Because from Friday until today, we have had the opportunity to see that Mr. Micunovic, as chairman, represents essentially the ideological father of all these parties that are now called opposition parties whose percentages are between five and seven percent, who have in a magical way actually managed to enter after the 2016 elections only as one pilot project of certain centres of power. That's where they learned a lot from those books that they had a chance to read. They learned about how to run capital investments to the AP Vojvodina, how to run bankruptcys of 14 firms and simply respect employees in the Serbian Parliament, to come here to change accounts they don't like or like, and all that to share with journalists, and to issues that were essential they didn't want to answer. Why can someone who wants to deal with politics continue to be the bankruptcy manager of several firms and will resign in those places? On the third hand, we have this so-called. The quasi-nationalist parties, a little from Cačka, a little from Italy, tried to lead voters astray, and it was the voters of those who ruled the AP Vojvodina. Now, all of this was just on one list, on a list that simply ideologically belongs to the one who presides from Friday until today. Why are we saying this? Because it is wanted to elect the president of parliament to introduce democracy into Serbia's parliament. Democracy will be introduced through the election of Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. Because in the previous period, Mrs Maja Gojkovic had several opportunities to open a concrete dialogue with all non-insistant people and to really and too much play in the debate for those who are not members of the ruling coalition. Members of the ruling coalition and MPs have suffered much more pressure than former regime members have suffered. Therefore, what Mrs. Maja Gojkovic showed, it is one breadth and flexibility, that she can open dialogue with everyone, that she is not afraid of anything, has shown one great struggle and has shown that she can preserve the credibility of an institution such as the Serbian Parliament. What still needs to be put on the accent, that is, in addition to the legislative function that parliament is carrying out, led by Mrs Gojkovic, there simply were not just 200 laws that entered into the set of economic reforms, but only last year did parliament adopt 297 laws and 611 acts. That was the case the year before. Therefore, this Parliament has worked really hard during the time Mrs Maja Gojkovic led this institution and what should be said that, in addition, she has deepened this control function of parliament, which is that for the first time, it means, after the constitution of new bodies such as the Citizens' Protector, such as the Information Protector, had the right to discuss their reports in this Parliament. That wasn't the case when you chose them all, it wasn't the case from 2008 to 2012. We even heard from the Manchester, or the Citizens' Protector, that he said that some of the members of the opposition parties were saying, well, do you really think you're the Protector of the Citizens? So, with that kind of talk to people who represented all these institutions, we've shown that we're simply not afraid of anything and that we can all have a completely open dialogue. After all, all the objections these institutions had received were adopted on their recommendations. Thus, and the role discussed, this control role, as well as the adoption of the ministry's work report every three months, was indeed carried out within the deadline. The third function that we all forget somewhere, which is the relationship in international politics, i.e. the representation of the state, or parliament in other countries through bilateral and trilateral relations with countries not only the EU, but also all parts of the world, Mrs Maja Gojkovic has indeed done in an extremely responsible manner. This simply shows that our candidate in front of the ruling coalition is indeed responsible and extremely well-intentioned and in these relations when it comes to all negotiations with the EU, but also with the Russian Federation, as well as with countries from the east. Therefore, our candidate, such as Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, I hope after this vote he will indeed become the first president to experience re-election, which is little to say for anyone in the last 20 years. I hope that we will have the opportunity to do our work in an extremely efficient way by all other points after taking over the presidency tonight, and we thank you for holding this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u593	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups or of someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? I'll give Mr. Seselj ten seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u594	Just to hear from "Yuba" as Igor Becic called an Italian statesman, please. What'd you turn off?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u595	As authorized ten seconds he has. Here you go, Mr. Seselj, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u596	(The People's MP plays the video with YouTube.) Igor Becic, resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u597	Please, let's finish this. Mr. Ristichevich. Ten seconds, please, Mr. Seselj. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vukadinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u598	Dear Mr. Micunovic, Article 107(1). (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Ali, that was. But it wasn't on this subject. I appreciate your efforts, but I resent you, as chairman, for allowing this divorce case to take effect and for this to take place here in front of all our eyes this divorce of the SNS and the SRS and to spend 45 minutes. Secondly, I object to you that, with all your efforts, you have failed to provide me and most of your opposition colleagues with the ability to even in the normal atmosphere to expose their views. We've heard now, and we see some big rush and rush, all of a sudden there's a big rush, and we're doing half an hour, 45 minutes of headlines, plagiarisms, whether someone said "mortadella" 12 or not. So it's a collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly, it's a devastation of this home, it's actually turning this congregation into a reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u599	Okay, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u600	Mr. President, I will appeal to Article 27 that you are obliged to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure and the order in this House and that this Parliament will look before the public only you are responsible. All of what's positive and negative today is happening at the session going to your expense. I think you're aware of that. The bidding -- come on ten seconds, come on five seconds, come on, here, I'll let you have fun or entertain us, I don't know how many seconds. So it's not worth the comment at all. It's below each level of each of us. Don't thank me, we're far from grateful. But what you have to do, please, for two days I've been saying, follow the rules of our behavior that you've brought yourself. So there's no bidding around time. The word is given to the heads of the parliamentary groups who have some time left to talk about the proposed candidate. What you've done now, is it worth any comment? Playback from YouTube. What's next you'll do? Someone will ask you to... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How does she have every right to speak? Well, you can put me in jail right now and put a patch on my mouth. I don't know, 1,800,000 people voted for the list "Alexandar Vukic – Serbia wins", so you can put us all on Goli Island. There, and that's not a bad solution. You may regret that October 6th never happened, so you didn't kill us all. Who knows what you have in your head? But we're not mad at you, just please tell us when it will start to be a serious debate in this House, that we, as representatives of the citizens, who voted for a serious and decent Serbia back in the O.R., and until then you watch the programs, listen to whoever you want, content from the YouTube channel, laugh. You're all here together, looks like coalition partners, but don't expect...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u601	Please, your time is up. You usurp the time that belongs to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u602	... That we sit and support, that we still touch and be an audience in this very, very bad play.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u603	Wait till they pick you and do whatever you want. Sit down now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u604	You can't bid five seconds, ten seconds. Come on, I like you a little bit, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u605	This is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u606	And on what basis for 10 seconds, what? I gave up, and I withdrew all the injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u607	Are any of the other authorised representatives looking for a word? (Maya Gojkovic, from the scene: play something from YouTube.) ) National MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u608	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to say why the DSS Group will not vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. We will not vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic for several reasons. The first is that it represents the continuity of one bad policy and one very bad leadership of the Assembly, because during its term of office the Assembly was the service of the Serbian Government, and I see that this will continue. On the other hand, I would like to underline that Mrs Gojkovic has broken the Constitution and has not called local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, especially in four municipalities, which are in temporary status in northern Kosovo. She thus violated the constitution and insisted on implementing her party's policy rather than implementing the constitution. I must say, because of the atmosphere that reigned on Friday, and today, we cannot vote for Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. This is the lincha atmosphere, which is best seen now, because, on Friday, and today, and especially Friday, the opposition was exposed to sermons, was exposed to one lynch, a real hot rabbit and filled with a series of lies. It is a minor problem that is easy on people, but it is a bigger problem that this Parliament is fully devising itself, which is destroying its dignity and its authority, so the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will see for themselves – well, God, what will this do to us when these are fighting like this? This is all done on purpose, in order to undermine the dignity of the Serbian parliament, the most important institution that is also legal and also the foundation of democracy. And for the sake of truth, I must say that SNS is not the only party supported by the Unique Russia and the Russian Federation. If I like him very much and he even amuses me that they want to be the only ones in the Russian Federation. July 29th. In 2007, the DSS signed a special liaison agreement with the Unique Russia, and the agreement was signed here in Belgrade in 2007. Commission Implementing Regulation The DSS signed another agreement with the United Russia on 24 March. That's how much truth she's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u609	Thank you. The word has Bojan Pajtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u610	The Honorable Chairman, very briefly. I'm just asking for your attention, I'll be very brief. Let me thank you as the oldest member of Parliament and as the progeny of democracy for having endured these two days of great temptations. The tape of democracy has fallen to this home in the last two days, I fear such an atmosphere in which opposition MPs had the opportunity to say what they think will not be seen much longer in this house, but I believe that after this call in the new assembly of parliament, the situation will be quite different. Once again, thanking Professor Micunovic for this and the conduct of the majority MPs. It's really an amazing energy you've spent, the power you've shown during your session these two days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u611	Thank you. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u612	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief. Dragoljub Micunovic was not enough for this session to be the kind of parliament needed by the country. Neither political lessons nor education lessons are required to give us the oldest MPs among us. The '90s aren't just a calendar, they're worth it. They're accusing each and every one of us. One because they're responsible for all the terrible things that happened. Others because they weren't able to stop it in time. I want to thank you on behalf of our parliamentary group for everything you've done during these two days. I hope we keep doing this work our own way. We'll take part in the vote and act the way we said. There is no support for electing a president because there was no previous agreement, we will respect the agreement made and vote for vice presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u613	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u614	And I'll brief the chairman. I hope that the work of this Assembly will continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If anyone thinks the Rules of Procedure should be changed, then we should discuss it, but while the Rules of Procedure is valid we should stick to it. They repeat these key provisions that will provide us with and talk about essential things, which is to talk about the subject, not to be offended, not to throw it away. These are very simple rules. I hope that the future president of the Assembly will stick to these rules, that he will have this new political culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u615	Thank you. The word is Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u616	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. I answered the floor on Friday at 3 p.m. because I'm head of the Parliament Club, and unfortunately I wasn't here this morning, so Sasha spoke at the beginning. Let me use these few minutes as long as there is left. Of course, I'd avoid these scratches that you almost all use when you start your discussions. It shows one false respect for one another. You don't have any of what I'm about to tell you – you're the most respected philosopher, Mr. Academyman, professor, doctor, duke, whatever you want. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: I would be fascinated by this. Well, that's why I'll never tell you. So for me, you're all the same here, and I have to say that by the way we did, we didn't deserve any respect. So I would ask all MPs not to start a team anymore, because they are usually the most extreme discussions when we begin – distinguished professors, Doctor. If we are respected then we should respect each other, and let me tell you, this is not the Academy of Science and Art, this is the parliament where votes are given in the elections, not by artistic impression. To me, of course, as head of the party now in the ruling coalition, which still does not know if it will be in the future ruling coalition, it is responsible that this session lasts as long as possible. Serbia doesn't answer that. That's why I suggested, even at the session when we had a meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs, that we keep the discussion as brief as possible. Why? Because it's clear that Alexander Vukic's list has an absolute majority. Because it's clear and we have a deal that the first five or four or five, I don't know how many at the end, the list will have vice presidents. It also came out to meet demands, as DS and the Movement "Enough" have the same number of MPs, so another vice president added. Also, around the secretary general, mostly, there's always been some kind of unity. About the committees we agreed to form, and there are three, because the Assembly has to operate in the meantime, which are: Administrative Committee, Justice Committee and Legislative. It wasn't too slow. Of course, the political connotation of this session cannot be avoided either, that is, that everyone tries and wants to get certain political points out of this situation. I think we've come to a situation that I don't know if it's going to happen now. Micunovic now says - we're going home, or we're going to vote tomorrow or tonight, which I think is very important to know about the heads of Parliament's clubs. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: What were you going to say? Mr. Seselj, what I was going to say, I certainly won't ask. I hope you understand that. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You have nothing to ask me... I have nothing to do with you. You go ahead and settle with whoever you want. I've never been an addict of you and your politics and I don't have any... (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: I will ask the Wolf to see you again tomorrow. Go ahead, just get in the government. Okay. I mean, we're here, I'm asking you to look each and every one of you in the eye and say it ourselves, we all laugh here when someone's got to be around here, so we laugh when you say you're talking about Becic, and then for this, for that, and you laugh when you say you should eliminate Scott, and you don't understand that every day we violate our country's state position. I have no reason to defend anyone, it turns out now that, of all the pro-Western parties here, I should be defending the American ambassador. But it's not a laughing matter, because that's why our people will suffer. That's why we have very different things here. We here differ not by who will offend whom more, but by what kind of Serbia's future we see. These are the topics this parliament will deal with. Someone thinks of the European Union as the best strategic goal for Serbia, someone thinks it is contrary to Serbia's interests. Someone thinks maybe Serbia's interest is the Eurasian Union. But I want to make it clear to everyone here - there is no need to insult Russia or America or anyone else, because this is a parliament that should serve Serbia's best interests. Serbia alone cannot be strong or large or respected in the world without friends. If we ourselves do not create this picture in our Parliament, we will not have it from those countries with which we should co-operate. That is why I call upon Members to be serious when we talk about such important state and national issues. All that might sound nice. This may all be part of some political ego, but state policy is much more serious than what should be liked by some voter who decides on his behalf who will decide for the next four years. We will vote for Maja Gojkovic. It would be illogical that after four years of the SNS coalition, we are now not voting in favour of the SNS proposal. Congratulations to all parties who have entered parliament. Congratulations to all MPs. Of course, the biggest congratulations I give to the party, or list, which received the largest number of votes and the absolute majority. Also, I think that these examples, the imposition of an example that now the opposition should be at the head of parliament, I think it's more said for the sake of order and that it's unrealistic, because you know how, and Professor Micunovic in coordination said that if someone ever made a mistake, let's now be better than those who have sinned so let's do it now. The problem is that we all remember that when we fall from power, and nobody talks about it when it's in power, because they want all the functions to themselves. Remember, this is where Tomislav Nikolic was elected president by the SPS vote, I think Kostunica was the Democratic Party, I forgot, it was a revolution in the country. This session was nothing compared to that session of the National Assembly. After a few days, it was changed or I don't know how many days it was, changed, I didn't change it, I didn't vote for Tomislav Nikolic's shift, he was replaced by Kostunica. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Why did you change him? Mr. Seselj, please address the chairman, not me. You are at least old acquaintances from the beginning, and Maja Gojkovic and I were the youngest MPs here in the 1990s and others. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I have some more questions to ask you. We'll do that tomorrow. Please, I hope that no one present has any illusion that some of these events in parliament can change the election will and the election results. That's why, in all of that, I mean, there's, uh, there's a need for greater respect and a winner of the election, meaning from parties that won fewer votes. As well as greater respect for each other's MPs. So I'm surprised he's not here, he was talking about the devil's lawyer Nenad Canak on Friday, but he's not here today, so now I don't know how to talk to him, because as long as we're talking about the need for a European path and unity, he made a statement today, we went unpunished, that's who we are in the 1990s, and now Mr Jovanovic's been talking about this for ninety years. As long as you live, as long as your past is your only future, you won't have a future. Today after four years, this government has brought Serbia closer to the EU than you could ever have done after 2000. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: Don't talk about it now.) You're Mr. Jovanovic's start on the subject. I really didn't want to talk about it. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: You were sitting in the government. () As far as I'm concerned, Serbia has opened negotiations today. What exactly are you saying that's not true? Here today were the EU representatives here, we talked about it, there will be chapters now in June of the month, the next chapters, please excuse me. Mr. Radulovich, since I was, I have proposed you as minister, you know it well. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Who? ) Mr Radulovic and at the meetings of the Government I sometimes tolerated your performances when you spoke out of the agenda. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: So he is your handiwork.) ) Therefore, I apologize for having now raised this issue, but I have talked about European integration as the goal to which this Assembly should make the most of its contribution. There are no European integrations without the laws passed here. There is a great role for Parliament in all this, so I thank you all once again and I want to say that our party will vote in favour of the election of Maja Gojkovic, will vote in favour of the election of all vice-presidents, the secretary-general and the election of all parliamentary committees. There is nothing we all want here without political stability in Serbia, and there is no political stability without trying to seek the broad consensus on the most important state and national issues, and this is the topic we need to discuss and we are ready to participate in it as fully as possible. Thank you. I stuck to the time I had left.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u617	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u618	Mr. Micunovic, I called in a replica. You, Mr. Dacic, did not understand what I said, and I am obliged to react because you are still trying to impress a man who has nothing to do with what he's been doing in this country for years. You, Dacic, were the Prime Minister who went to Brussels and signed an agreement with Kosovo Albanians in Brussels. I supported you then, I didn't declare you a traitor, I didn't quote your policy from all those years before coming to the post of Prime Minister. I also supported the SNS when it started implementing European policy in this country, when it continued the negotiations that you and them launched in 2013. I did it because obviously we don't live in the '90s, in a calendar sense, but you, and not the ruling coalition that you belong to for the last four years, obviously you're not able to get us out of those '90s worth it. There is no political stability if it involves life in one party or completely giving in to one political idea. We can build a stable Serbia if we are willing to respect each other and if we understand what the key problem of our society is at this point. We don't need enemies. We, unfortunately, have been our own enemies so many times. We entered this assembly on Friday, following a few simple political rules. The party that won the elections or the list, they have its name, it is the SNS, a list under Vucic's name, that should give parliament's president, will have parliament's president. Vice-Presidents, they're coming in on a deal. I'm always welcome, and I'm absolutely for respect and respect, so we've always been. But don't let those of us who paid the price too much, and we would pay again, to get the country out of the '90s, even though we were unsuccessful, to put it back in your face and focus that we want those divisions that are destroying the country today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u619	Your time is up. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u620	You know what, I think Mr. Jovanovic totally misread my words. I don't know what he's into or why he's even reacting, I've reacted to what Nenad Canak was saying, and that's that we're not gonna let him go back to the '90s and stop European integration. In that sense, I was saying that the government that's done a lot in the last four years is on that road. Mr. Jovanovic himself listed some of the things that were done during that period. So there's no reason, and I agree absolutely that the system of values we need to create can be made. The past cannot be erased, but the past cannot only be the basis for our present and future. We should be looking for our common denominators if we have them. I think we have them, and that's Serbia. There's a lot of parties out there. Here, there are 16 parliamentary clubs here, and Serbia is just one and don't forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u621	I warned the heads of the parliamentary groups at the end, but they didn't answer. I see Mr. Komlensky has been reported, but please, just a few seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u622	I answered in good time, Chairman. Although there are 10 minutes left from the time of this group of MPs, the parliamentary groups of the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party, we have already declared that we will vote for the proposal. Only right now, I would like to congratulate Mrs. Maja Gojkovic first of all on her strength, patience, tolerance and congratulations on the election for the president of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u623	Since the list of parliamentary groups has been exhausted, I am concluding the search for a proposal for a National Assembly president. But before I do, I give myself a word to say a few words at the end of this two-day work. It was not easy to manage this congregation. It was even tense, there were ugly words, there was everything, but we brought her to an end. However, I promise you, Mr. Seselj, this applies to you, to listen, I promise you that after the next election you will not persuade me to lead this assembly again. Take it as a joke or not, however you like, but just a few words. Everybody's tired of talking. I'm here because I'm the oldest. I said it wasn't much of a privilege, but sometimes it is, because you're a little more mature than these others. You have more experience. I'm twenty-seven years old in parliament. Now I'd like to mention and ask for a round of applause first, so I'll continue, for Djokovic, who won four Grena Slims. This is our most famous citizen, a Serb, as you will. However, I also won the third Grand Clem today. I was president of the SRJ parliament, and then the SCG and finally, here it is, and Serbia. That ended my ambition, like Djokovic. I don't want this to be shared, so there's another state that I'd like to hold a constitutional session. I'd like two, three messages to tell you, if I can afford it. There is no democracy without a strong and dignified parliament, nowhere. Parliament is defending every authoritarian authority and every violation of democracy. It must preserve independence and dignity, in every detail, not to be treated as a chain of administrative authority. He's always threatened by two dangers. It is one of the parliament itself, whether we will succeed in being both dignified and courageous and tolerant and rational, however you wish. It's up to us. We're being watched by our people, who are gathered here in this hall. And whenever anyone desires to offend his fellowman, let him know that he has offended hundreds or thousands of men who have voted for this man. We easily insult, worship, invent, and so forth. It's ugly stuff. I welcome the combat people, but I mean the fighting differently. Where it's supposed to stop, make it right, it's fighting, and the other one gets attacked, slandered, it's a grocery thing. I'm going to go through a lot of insults that I've gotten completely undeserved. Why do I say it unearthly? Because in 27 years, there is no MP who has passed through these parliaments, who can say that I have ever offended him or humiliated him. It is something that I contribute to, as a contribution to Parliament's authority. The second threat threatens us from the executive. By the nature of things she wants everything. It is in her interest to have control, to have a ban and to divide the authorities and independence of the institutions dominates. It's a common good to have a decent, democratic state. I don't know how long I'm going to join you, but anyway, let's keep that in mind, let's go through petty fights, insults, etc., it's forgotten and we're trying to make this country poor and threatened in various ways, yet we'll make a place of decent life, because then we'll respect ourselves. Tolerance comes from the Latin word “toleral, ” meaning“ to suffer, ” and suffering is a great and noble thing, to put up with another, that you are not enough for yourself. Second, that you consider the other one equal. Don't let someone who represents the majority believe that terrorism will succeed in doing something, do nothing, just by working together. Co-operation, respect and respect for minorities. Everything else is bravado and it's not a fight. I wish you all well. I apologize to many if I have violated their rights. Believe me, I couldn't strictly apply the Rules of Procedure, because it would mean, like I said, empty the hall, and that would be ugly. When I was president of Parliament, here many know it, I did not punish anyone except to protect the opposition or the opposition candidate for the current president. When he hurt or used an unnecessary word, the interior minister from my party, who was an MP, left the scene alone. I'd like it to be an example of how to protect the minority instead of this noisy aggression. I wish everyone a lot of success. I now declare a brief break to prepare for the organisation of the election. The break is from ten to fifteen minutes. I'd like to ask you at 20.45 hours to be here for the vote. [[After a break.]] I ask the MPs to take their seats. Dear Members of Parliament, acting unanimously in accordance with Article 9(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am laying down a list of candidates for the president of the National Assembly with only one candidate, Maja Gojkovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search and is in agreement with Article 9(5). Rules of Procedure of a designated list of candidates for the President of the National Assembly, I remind you that pursuant to Article 10(1) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure before joining the election of the National Assembly, the National Assembly should decide whether to vote in secret or in public. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by the call of MPs, Article 10(2). Rules of Procedure. For the sake of technical advantages, I propose that the election of the president of the National Assembly be made by a public vote, by calling the MPs. I would like to put the motion to vote so that the election of the president of the National Assembly is made by a public vote, by calling the MPs. Who's in? Against? I conclude the vote and declare: for - 207 MPs, against - four abstentions - three, 13 MPs did not vote from the total of 227 MPs present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly decided, by majority, that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by public vote, by calling the MPs. We're moving on to a decision. The election of the president of the National Assembly by public vote, by calling the MPs. Since the National Assembly has decided that the election of the National Assembly president should take place by a public vote, the vote should be held by calling the MPs under Article 10(2). Rules of Procedure. Before we go to the roll call vote, I remind you it's article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call and, in accordance with that provision: the Secretary-General, or the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly, shall call on the MPs by the alphabetical order of the last name, each appointed MP shall pronounce the word ‘yes’, ‘no’ or ‘abstained’, chairing the name and the name of the MP who voted and his statement, or determining that he is absent or does not wish to vote, the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and last name on the list. Before we go to the vote, I remind you that according to Article 104, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been established that the National Assembly is elected by the majority of the votes of all MPs by the National Assembly president, which means that a MP has been elected to the National Assembly, who received most of the votes of all MPs. I would like to put the motion on vote to elect National Assembly Speaker Maja Gojkovic. We approach the vote by calling the MPs. I ask the Deputy Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs, in the alphabetical order of the last name, and record their statement. I note that the vote is done in such a way that every MP of the people pronounces the word "yes", "against" or "abstained". I ask the MPs to stand up and plead when they vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u625	We approach the vote by calling the MPs. Alexic Miroslav – v Antić Aleksandar – for Arsenović Konstantin – for Arsic Veroljub – for Atlagić Prof. Dr Marko – for Babić Vlado – for Bjatović Dušan – for Barišić Dragan – for Bačevac dr Muamer – for Belačić Aleksandr – for Bečić Mr Igor – for Božinić Marko – for Blažić Branislav – for Božinović Zarko – for Božinović Goran – against Božović Bošan – against Broz Josip – for Božović Balša – for Božić Zoran – for Bojić Dubravko – for Bojić Dubrač – against Božač – against Bošović – against Buković – for Veljković Slavić Dragan – for Bojović Dragan – for Bojić Dubrač – against Božov Prof. Dr. Draga Žažaža Žažaža Ža Žažažaž – Zavić – Zavić – Zažić – Zavić – Zaža Žović – Zaž ( against Žović – Zažović – Zaž – Zaživić – Tik – Zažović – Tikić – Tikić – Tikić – Tikić – Tikić – Tikić – Tikić – Zakić – Zakić – Tikić – Zakić – Zakić – Zakić Zakić – Zakić – Zakić – Zak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u626	Since we have held a vote to elect the president of the National Assembly by calling, I am finalising the vote and we are approaching the outcome of the vote. We'll announce the results in one five minutes to count. Dear MPs, allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 233 MPs who joined the vote, for the candidate for National Assembly President Maju Gojkovic voted 159 MPs, against 73 MPs, he was abstentioned. Dear People's MPs, based on your vote, I find that candidate Maja Gojkovic received most of the votes of all MPs and that the National Assembly for National Assembly President has chosen Maja Gojkovic. Let me congratulate Maja Gojkovic on your behalf for the election of President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and wish her much success in her work. [[Applause]] I ask the President of the National Assembly to take over the chair of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u628	Dear MPs, I would like to thank, above all, the Parliamentary Group "Alexandar Vukic – Serbia wins", then to all those who have signed the initiative, i.e. a proposal for my candidacy for the president of the Republic of Serbia's parliament in this session. I also sincerely thank all the parliamentary groups who voted for me, and I promise I will truly justify your trust in me in the coming period that you gave me this time. I thank you for listening very carefully to all your discussions on Friday and today, and I really thank you for what you said positively about me, about my work, but I would like to stress that I have tried carefully and understood the messages of those MPs who still held to the agenda and talked about why they would not give me confidence this time, but somehow I realized that they were leaving me an open door for co-operation and the possibility that they would change their minds with no new vote, but that they would change their minds after the completion of our joint four-year work and still say that they could give me confidence. But I have also listened to those who, without any arguments, have tried very badly to speak of me and, of course, in the coming period I will not pay any attention to these insults, it is the right of every MP to present his personal card immediately at the beginning of this work and to legitimateize how he understands this work, whether something thinks that we should support the arguments or dictionaries of hatred, intolerance, the carrying out of untruth. My great promise to those in the ruling majority of the future and those who will remain in opposition that I will be president equal to everyone, to the extent that they are positively and negatively pleading on the proposed laws, and I will have no understanding of the attempts to make this Parliament something other than what is written in the Constitution and in our positive regulations. It is that this is the most legislative body of the branches of power that has to work a lot, much to do in the coming period to justify the trust of the citizens of all of us here, whether we are the government or the opposition, and to understand one thing, that the picture of Parliament does not create and cannot create one man. The image of Parliament is created by all of us together, by our address, by our mutual appreciation, by building tolerance and by any vote in favour of the bill "for" or "against" we define the life of an ordinary citizen. Always keep that in mind, that we represent the citizens here, not ourselves. I thank again all those who have shown confidence in my way of understanding parliamentary life. Thank you so much again. I'm not gonna take a break because we already have the material ready for the next item on the agenda. Just to consult with the deputies if he's been distributed. You all have points two, motions for vice presidents of parliament. (Yes) Before we move to the election, or vote for vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I remind you that it is Article 14. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the National Assembly shall determine the number of vice-presidents on the proposal of the President of the National Assembly. At consultations a few days ago that I and I attended, not as president, but as candidates, we agreed that this assembly of parliament had seven vice-presidents. This proposal will be made clear before we move to the vote on the proposed candidates. I think we've made a consensus, but we have to hold the vote. So, I would like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 15. The Rules of Procedure received a proposal for seven candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly. As far as I am informed from you, the suggestions are presented to you and include the following names: Konstantin Arsenović, Veroljub Arsic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Djordje Milicevic, Jasmina Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Gordana Comić. As referred to in Article 16(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Proposer Representative have the right to explain the proposal, asking whether a representative of the Proposer is obviously asking myself whether I would like to explain the proposal of a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly? Since we've reached a consensus and agreed that we won't have a debate, but I have to ask you if any of you want to talk about candidates? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Excuse me, just one moment. So I can conclude the debate, no one wants to discuss the proposed candidates. As I announced, before we move on to the election of vice presidents of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to establish the number of vice presidents of the National Assembly in this assembly. I'm putting on a motion that the Assembly determines that there are seven vice presidents in this meeting. Please, let's approach the vote. Do I understand the MP's group well enough that he doesn't want to vote for his vice president? I didn't close the vote. You're welcome to vote again. To repeat the vote, some MPs here complain that their cards are not working. Turn off the system, and we'll repeat the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 206, against – 12 abstentions – two, eight MPs did not vote, of a total of 228 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has made a decision to have a vice president's sedan in this meeting. I'm setting a five-minute break, because apparently our joint Friday deal isn't working, so I can see that by the vote. So, in five minutes, let's see with the head of the parliamentary group, enough is enough, whether he stays with his candidate after he voted against it. Five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, I have consulted with the heads of Parliament, except for one of the heads of Parliament who did not want to. How we adopted the motion for a decision to have seven vice presidents in this assembly... (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: In accordance with the agreement. )......................................................................................................... and in accordance with the agreement with the heads of Parliament and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will vote for all seven, but not in the package, because MPs do not want to vote the same for everyone. So we'll vote for six and one single. It'll take a little while longer, but I respect the will of the heads of Parliament and... (Bosko Obradović, from the place: When did you consult with us? Find provisions in the Rules of Procedure, and we'll talk. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Do not lie, no one has consulted with us. Mr. Ambassador, you must learn to answer for a word, and the debate is closed because we voted. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: I answer the word. It's not you who can do it whenever you want, it's what the Rules of Procedure says. We're going to vote like we agreed. You've been looking for a place for your MP's group, instead of "Enough's Enough", it's not being adopted. Let's move on. I ask MPs just for a little attention, it'll be a little more complicated at first, but you'll understand what's being asked of you, because the heads of your parliamentary groups have asked it to be voted out for the candidates. I'll ask you who's for and I'll read the names and then I'll vote, then I'll read you the name of the last candidate who turned out to be controversial for most of you. Read the Rules of Procedure, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u630	Alexic Miroslav.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u631	Alexic Miroslav: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I have a remark one. We've started the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u632	Antiquity Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u633	Antić Aleksandar: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u634	Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u635	Konstantin Arsenović: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u636	Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u637	Veroljub Arsic: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u638	Atlagic Prof. Dr. Marco.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u639	Atlagić Prof. Dr. Marko: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u640	Grandma Vlado.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u641	Babić Vlado: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u642	Bajatovic Dusan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u643	Bajatović Dusan: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u644	Barisic Dragana.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u645	Barisić Dragana: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u646	Dr. Muamer's pitcher.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u647	Bačevac Dr. Muamer: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u648	It's Alexander's white girl.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u649	Belačić Aleksandra: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u650	It's Mr. Igor's Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u651	Bečić mr Igor: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u652	Bijanine Milena.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u653	Bicanin Milena: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v. Blagojevic Marko: Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komić – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u654	Blažić Branislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u655	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komic – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u656	A rich man's heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u657	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u658	Bogdanovic Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u659	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komić – for; Jasmina Nikolic – abstentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u660	Bogosavljević Boškovic Dr. Snježana.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u661	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u662	Christmas, Nenad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u663	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u664	Bozovic Balša.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u665	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u666	Bojanic Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u667	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u668	The color of Deep.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u669	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u670	Dr. Milovan's crayon.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u671	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u672	Borkovic Dušan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u673	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u674	Boskovic Milos.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u675	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u676	Broz Joseph.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u677	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u678	Dr. Danica's bukvik.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u679	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u680	Bulatović Slavisa.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u681	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u682	Veljkovic Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u683	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u684	Vidinović Maya.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u685	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u686	Vlahovic Sonja.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u687	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u688	A pitcher of Zivko.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u689	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u690	Vujadinović Milimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u691	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u692	Vujić Vojislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u693	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u694	Vukadinović Gjorge.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u695	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u696	Dr. Diana's Vukomanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u697	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u698	A wolf, Alexander.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u699	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u700	Vučković Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u701	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u702	Gavrilović Marko.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u703	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u704	Gajic Gorica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u705	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u706	Gojkovic Zika.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u707	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u708	Gojkovic Maja.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u709	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – I do not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u710	Grubor Borka.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u711	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u712	Grujic Mladen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u713	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u714	David's Tian.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u715	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u716	Damjanović Miljan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u717	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u718	Hansel Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u719	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v. Oppositely, with the explanation that the MP, Jasmine Nikolic, did not stick to our mutual agreement. I'm saying it for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u720	It's a piece of Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u721	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u722	Dr. Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u723	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u724	Drocun Milovan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u725	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u726	Djokic Zvonimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u727	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u728	Djukanovic Vladimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u729	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u730	Djukic Dejanović, Prof. Dr. Slavica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u731	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u732	Djuric Vladimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u733	Absent.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u734	Djurishic Marco.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u735	Konstantin Arsenović – for; Veroljub Arsic – for; Vladimir Marinković – for; Djordje Milicevic – for; Vjerica Radeta – for; Gordana Komic – for; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u736	Djurović Aleksandra.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u737	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u738	Žarić Kovačević Jelena.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u739	Žarić Kovačević Jelena: Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsić – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u740	Zivkovic Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u741	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u742	Gigman's Tomislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u743	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u744	A citizen of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u745	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u746	Zeleg Marco.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u747	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u748	Zukorlic Muammer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u749	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u750	I've got Enis.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u751	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u752	Jankov Ratko.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u753	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u754	Jancic Radovan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u755	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u756	Janjušević Krsto.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u757	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u758	Janjušević Maria.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u759	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u760	The Jew Mary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u761	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u762	Jevtic Jovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u763	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u764	Jerkov Aleksandra.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u765	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u766	Jesic Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u767	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – za.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u768	Jovanovic Branimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u769	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u770	Jovanovic Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u771	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u772	Jovanovic Jadranka.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u773	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u774	Jovanovic Spasoja Natasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u775	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u776	Jovanovic Stanoj Natas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u777	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u778	Jovanovic Cedomir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u779	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u780	Jojic Petar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u781	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u782	Yokic Mihailo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u783	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u784	Jolović Nikola.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u785	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u786	Southovic Aleksandar.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u787	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u788	Karanac Jasmina.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u789	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u790	Dragomir karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u791	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u792	Kric Ivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u793	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u794	It's Milanka's cousin.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u795	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u796	Prince Blaža.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u797	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u798	Prince Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u799	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u800	Prince Prof. Dr. Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u801	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u802	The smith of Elvira.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u803	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u804	Kovačević Borisav.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u805	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u806	Kovacevic Goran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u807	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u808	The goat of Svetlana.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u809	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u810	Colleen Georges.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u811	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u812	Compirović Stanija.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u813	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u814	Konstantinović Nenad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u815	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – abstentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u816	Step aside, Dr. Light.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u817	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – refuses to make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u818	It's a little Đorje.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u819	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u820	Kostic Dragana.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u821	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u822	Mr. Ivan's Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u823	He's not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u824	Kostic Radmilo.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u825	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u826	Beautiful Zoran.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u827	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u828	Blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u829	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u830	Krkobic Milan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u831	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u832	Mole Mirko.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u833	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u834	Kružević Srdjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u835	Konstantin Arsenović – za; Veroljub Arsic – za; Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković – za; Djordje Milicevic – za; Vjerica Radeta – za; Gordana Komić – za; Jasmina Nikolic – v. Lazani Miroslav – six for Jasmina Nikolic – no vote by Lazić Nada – six for Jasmina Nikolic – no vote by Lakatoš Ljibuška – six for Jasmina Nikolic – no vote by Ljajić Darko – six for Jasmina Nikolic – six for Jasmina Miodrag – six for Jasmina Nikolic – no vote by Ljajic Rasim – absent Ljubjanović Tomislav – six for Jasmina Nikolic – six for Jasmić – six for Jasmina Nikolic – six for Jasmina Nikolic – six for Jasmić – six for Jasmić – six for Jasmić – six for Jasmina Niković – not for Jasmić Ža Ža Ža Žaža Žažica – six for Marušić – six for Jas – six for Jasmić – Jasmić – Jasmić – Jasmina Nikolic – six for Jasmina Nikolic – six for Jasmić – six for Jas – Jas – Jasmić – not Jasmić – Jas – Jasmić – Jas, not Jas, not Jas, for Jasmić – not Jasmić – not Jasmić – Jasmić – Jas – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – 6 – 6 for Jas – Nos – 6 for Jas – Nos – 6 – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Momić – 6 for Jas – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – Nos – 6 for Jas – 6 – Nos – Nos – Nos – 6 – Nos – Nos – 6 – Nos – 6 – Nos – Nos – 6 Cokić Radoslav – for Jasmina Nikolic - does not vote, the other six - for. Chabradi Goran – for Jasmina Nikolic - does not vote, the other six - for. Chabra Alexander - absent. Chanak Nenad - absent. Colaković Momo – for Jasmina Nikolic - does not vote, the other six – for. Komić Gordana – all seven for Čotric Aleksandar – for Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote, the other six – for. Sarović Nemanja – absent. Shevlić Prof. Dr. Miladin – all seven for. Seselj Prof. Dr. Vojislav – for Jasmina Nikolic – does not vote, the other six - for. Šormaz Dragan – for Jasmina Nikolic - does not vote, the other six – for. Šulkić Dejan – seven for. End of vote. A few minutes of rest, just to sign the motion for a decision on the next agenda, for the Secretary General, and to count. Fifteen minutes of official breaks to gather votes, yet seven candidates, and we haven't voted equally. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, we have the results of the vote. Please sit down, let me tell you the results of the vote. Allow me to announce the results of your vote. For the candidates: Konstantin Arsenovic, Veroljub Arsic, Prof. Vladimir Marinkovic, Djord Milicevic and Verice Radet voted 207 MPs for, no one opposed and two MPs were abstentioned. For candidate Gordana Comic, 208 MPs voted for, no one opposed and one was abstentioned. For candidate Jasmin Nikolic, 16 MPs voted for, against 75 MPs, abstentioned three and 115 MPs did not want to vote. Since candidates Konstantin Arsenovic, Veroljub Arsic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Djordje Milicevic, Vjerica Radeta and Gordana Comic received most of the votes of all the MPs, I find that they were elected vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the vice presidents of the National Assembly on the election and to ask them to take their seats next to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Congratulations again. Let me remind you, one candidate didn't get your trust this time, but this place was vacant, because we adopted a decision to have seven vice presidents, as we agreed on at the College, so we'll agree on a further run for the seventh place. There is no need for me to determine further, since I have been informed that you have obtained material for the fourth item of the agenda, which is the appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly. You have received my proposal to appoint Mr Svetislava Bulajic as Secretary General of the National Assembly. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have already done so, and they want to take part in the debate, to report immediately to me for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening an investigation into the motion for candidates for the appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly. I'm the promoter, but compared to the writing you have in front of you, orally I wouldn't really have anything more to add, I'm not going to explain my particular oral proposal. You have a biography, you have everything in front of you. I ask – do the presidents of the parliamentary groups want to participate in the discussion? Here you go, Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u837	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mrs Gojkovic, I must draw your attention that you have started your new mandate at the seat of the National Assembly president with one lie, which I do not think is appropriate for your function and that you have done so publicly here in front of everyone, as well as in front of the viewers in direct transmission, although several witnesses from your MP group, i.e. from the SNS, have been present and can confirm that you have not spoken the truth, if they wish to be fair. That's why I have to point you to it. First of all, you said there were new consultations between the heads of the parliamentary groups regarding the vice presidents.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u838	MP, there has been a debate on the specific agenda. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Yes, but you didn't give us a chance... I know that. You need to learn order. So we're talking about a candidate for Secretary General of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u839	So you have the right to lie, and I have no right to say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u840	Shame on you. This is not allowed, otherwise, in the congregation, neither to use such words nor to speak beyond the agenda. How can I explain this to you? This is the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the debate was opened on the agenda point -- candidate for Secretary General of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What you're talking about is not on the agenda what you meant to say, it's something else, but I would ask you about Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u841	So, as far as the Serbian Movement's parliamentary group "The Dvori" is concerned, we will remain abstention on the Secretary-General's election and, of course, we will vote. I just don't see what the problem is to let me finish two sentences about one thing where you just used one lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u842	So, the problem is Rules of Procedure, what can I tell you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u843	So you're so correct about the possibility that someone in the opposition is simply saying what's full of truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u844	Thank you, MP, but you must learn what parliament is, respect for the rules of conduct, one.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u845	Well, I'm appealing to you right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u846	And democracy is a well-organized system. And this very well-organized system was and will remain, and you will only adapt to that system. I know this is your first session. It's not easy to get into all the finesse of parliamentary life right now, but, MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u847	Can I ask you something?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u848	You can't ask me, you can do it on Tuesdays and Thursdays. We'll have time, a little break in work, and you'll study the Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's anything wrong with you wanting to do. I have to shut you down. He can't talk to two people. Since you do not want anything, you say you will be restrained around Svetislava Bulajić, I remain in the mood for consultations. Come to my office and tell me personally what you think of me and my personality. Tuesdays and Thursdays are questions, it's in the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to the other MPs, to help new MPs in the beginning. Does one of the group presidents want to speak on the agenda and candidate Svetislava Bulajic? Bojan Pitiæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u849	Madam President, we've received a biography of Mrs. Svetislave Bulajic. She has professional references as a Master of Legal Sciences, she also has a political experience, as far as I can see in her biography, was an MP on the LDP list in this parliament. So I have no doubt that Mrs Bulajic will be able to respond to the challenges of this job. However, since she is a candidate for the parliamentary majority, we are the opposition, for political reasons we will not support this request. So, one thing is, and there we have to make a distinction, the opposition's representation through the vice-presidents of parliament, something else is quite the secretary-general who has certain executive powers in parliament. That is why the DS parliamentary group will be abstained during this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-06-0.u850	Thank you. Do any of the heads of Parliament want a word? (No) I'm finishing the search. Before moving to the vote, you are reminded that the Secretary-General of the National Assembly is elected, or as the Rules of Procedure says, if the proposal was voted by most of the total number of MPs. I would like to put the motion to be appointed Secretary General of the National Assembly Svetislava Bulajic. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that 159 against 20 abstentions were not voted by six MPs from the total of 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has named Svetlana Bulajic, the general secretary of the National Assembly, by majority vote. Allow me to congratulate Svetislava Bulajić on the appointment of Secretary General of the National Assembly in your personal name and in your personal name. Since we should continue to work and move to the fifth item of the agenda – Selection of members of the working bodies of the National Assembly. I did not receive proposals for members of the National Assembly’s working bodies as president, nor did I receive them from the Secretariat of the General Assembly. Some parliamentary groups have not delivered candidates. So, you got those quotas, although there are parliamentary groups that haven't delivered their candidates and one of them is the SRS, and I think there are some more. But there's always what's bad luck, but there's a lot of candidates against the number of working bodies. So we're going to need consultations, because I see that some MPs didn't realize that there's some kind of compromise here, which they want to give some seats to, but a matter of winning votes, that's why percentages are being taken out and that's how working bodies are formed. So that we don't get into a fight or a fight or anything, since we're all more inclined to agree on what working bodies look like, this is what I'd do today's work. We'll all be together for a few days. We'll have consultations. About who didn't submit the proposals, let him deliver them. You will be informed in writing when we agree that there will be no less dispute when we continue with this agenda point. This concludes today's work, and tomorrow we certainly don't have a session. Thank you. Dear MPs, we continue the work of the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 134 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system and confirm that you are here. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 168 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Konstantin Arsenović, Stefana Miladanovic, Gordana Komic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukovic. You have received a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you of the total time of debate for the five-hour parliamentary groups. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. A written application to the sea. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. As a promoter, I will not take the floor because this proposal is in line with the heads of the parliamentary group, or authorized by representatives of parliamentary groups and Vice-President Veroljub Arsic. The changes were made to me yesterday and this morning by the Democratic Party and the SRS. One change had an SNS and this is in the new motion for a decision from today. Is anyone answering for a word from the authorized representatives? The word has the head of the parliamentary group, Vojislav Seselj.
