ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 195 MPs. Please insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, because of the need to bring in the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12437	Thank you, Chairman. Actually, I want to ask two questions. The first question concerns you, the President of the Assembly, and it concerns today's session and what is said – why are you degraded this parliament? Why are you devising parliamentary work? Do you meet the political wishes of the prime minister and the government and schedule these sessions? We, in fact, got a call for today in eight minutes to three, up to 15 hours, today at three. In this session, there are 27 items of the agenda, including 18 laws and very important laws, the president. These laws should be discussed here because these laws depend on the lives of our citizens, depending on the situation in the Republic of Serbia. Besides, it wasn't enough for you to call the session that way, but you've brought all those points together. So, I really don't know what relationships they have with each other, such as the election of members of the Board of Governors of the National Bank or the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Proposal for a decision to suspend the functions of the Public Prosecutor in Tristenk, with, say, the Points of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, the Law on Courts, the Law on Excises, the Law on Value Added Taxation, the Customs Law, the Law on Evaluators and the Tax Procedures. It is very important laws and an important set of laws that MPs will be able to discuss without sufficient and adequate preparation, with very little time. The heads of parliament's groups, if they want to discuss each of those points, will have 44 seconds to talk about one item of the agenda, and the other MPs around 11 seconds. Now you tell me how it is possible for someone in a few dozen seconds to mention tax laws, customs and excise duties, and VAT and all other things that are very important to the citizens of this country and are ultimately important to all of Serbia. Now, these days, MPs of the ruling SNS mocked and mocked the amendment about Santa Claus, which was very serious and who unfortunately they didn't understand what his message was. And his message is precisely this, he has not produced any damage, but has been an educational character unlike what is happening with the unification of the debate with such important points, where today we will actually participate in a work that will certainly do great damage to the citizens of Serbia, because MPs have not received adequate time to prepare, nor for the amendments, nor will they be able to discuss them seriously. So what you're doing is not only disrespecting members of this parliament and MPs, but all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including those two-thirds who didn't give a vote to the SNS, we have an obligation to all of them here to act responsibly and to act seriously and we must not spit in their faces. It wasn't the amendment to Santa Claus that was spit-in-the-face of Serbian citizens, but spit-in-the-face of Serbian citizens is what happens with the unification of such important laws on the agenda today. I would ask you to do it more, if it is possible in any way not to repeat it, because it actually shows that we are only in office of the government, to fulfill their political wishes and to fulfill what the prime minister draws, without adequate debate and without transparency. When there is no transparency, mistakes are stolen, and you saw in the previous summary how many laws were changed, which were adopted according to emergency procedure. I ask the second question to the Minister of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We face about 30,000 people leaving Serbia each year. Now at this point, about a thousand doctors are waiting and asking for a certificate to leave Serbia from the Medical Chamber in Serbia. Of course, in some parts, we have very big problems such as Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja where practically these people have been lifted by the Constitutional Court decision, and these people plan to leave these parts of Serbia. What is the way the Government and the Ministry of Health plan to keep these doctors down, not to leave that territory so that citizens have someone to treat? On the other hand, the same thing with the employees of the special hospital at the Bujanovska spa who unfortunately due to the court dispute won't be able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12438	Thank you, MPs. I'll give you a quick answer to your question. I really don't think of Parliament's work by holding sessions where there are a large number of draft laws. That's not what the work of parliament is all about. Secondly, I can't answer that because we didn't move on to that part of the session, and you can't refer the question to this part of the session to me, but to the promoter when it comes to the agenda. The other part will be answered by the Minister of Health. The word is Hope Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12439	I would like to ask a question from the Ministry of Health and RFZO, and this is about the fate of the New Sad pharmacy, and we should call them all state pharmacies. Namely, the “Novi Sad” pharmacy, as well as other state pharmacies, must respect a certain procedure when getting medicines. The Republic Health Insurance Fund under this procedure is calling for a drug procurement contest from A and A1 and these are the drugs that patients receive on the prescription for the needs of the pharmacy of the network plan or these state pharmacies. When the competition is completed and the RFZO selects a supplier, it informs all state pharmacies to sign contracts with selected suppliers and, in doing so, the Republic Fund defines funds, each State Pharmacy shall sign a contract with suppliers and, under those means, a contract with the suppliers. By the way, selected suppliers, at least those who are now in power, are privately owned. There's not a single state. On the other hand, private pharmacies choose who they want because they are not subject to this procedure. The supplier selected by the Republic Fund has limited the delivery to Novi Sad Apothecary on the grounds that it is a risky pharmacy that can be blocked due to debts. According to the procedure when the pharmacy gets drugs from the selected supplier, it issues them to patients on the prescription at the end of the month, invoices to the Republic Fund funds and they transfer those funds to pharmacies from which the pharmacy takes the margin, and everything else passes to suppliers. Pharmacies are obliged to supply users from the list A and A1, and if there are problems in these procurements, they notify the RFZO every Thursday. In this year, however, Novi Sad Pharmacy received drugs from suppliers only from half of the approved amount and notified the RFZO and the Ministry of Health and Founders of the problem, but there has been no reaction so far. That's why I'm asking the next question, and I'm asking the Ministry first of all for an answer, but also for the RFO. So when will the problem of Novi Sad Pharmacy and other state pharmacies be solved? I have a member from News from December 20th where other pharmacies in the same status as Novi Sad are mentioned. Why isn't the issue of state pharmacies being resolved? Why not equalize the conditions for the supply of medicines for private and state pharmacies? Why is the pharmaceutical sector not regulated because pharmacists are not traders but health professionals who can provide the patient with professional help and thus reduce the cost of working with selected doctors, as is the practice in many other countries? When will the single price of drugs be regulated? As there is a single price for cigarettes, there should also be a single price for medicines, as there is practice in other countries. In this case, pharmacies would compete with each other in the quality of pharmaceutical and health services, not with the price of medicines, and would not turn into trades or grocery shops, and there would certainly not be so many. What other directors of pharmacies specifically cite as one of the key causes of the problem, is also a monopoly of wholesalerry, because they get a job within central public procurement, which according to the 2015 regulation is centrally carried out, they contract with the Republic Fund on supply, and they open their own chains of pharmacies and thus directly compete with these pharmacies. I repeat, I want an answer when will the state pharmacy issue be resolved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12440	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12441	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is helping God to help everyone. I have two questions for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, as well as the Minister of Justice. When will something be done to prevent continued abuse of position, pressure on the judiciary by means of a law firm, which was part of the current director of BIA and its partners, who have a higher number of business banks and other persons interested in buying favourable judicial decisions through this group in the procedures in which they participate? So, when will the involved purchase of justice and those judges and prosecutors who want to do their job honestly and honestly relieve pressure and enable them to do their job freely and without fear of political and criminal retribution? To be specific, before being appointed to BIA Director, Aleksandar Djordjevic dealt with as a partner in the lawyer office of Djordjevic, Vasiljevic, Bogdanovic, and it seems to be his only professional recommendation for the highest post in the security service, what does Prime Minister Vukic know from the university, and which, in fact, has turned one major issue of conflict of interest to the appointment of one BIA attorney, given the information available to the persons in this function? This issue opens even more intensely if it takes into account that the attorney's office has continued its work and in its crumb composition, and continues to represent more business banks whose clients are unable to reach a court verdict, they cannot reach the satisfaction of judicial justice. It's interesting what this law firm has been up to. Here is a particular case since 30 September 2011, in a case in which they represented the Piraeus Bank, along with the submissions submitted by the court as evidence of certain allegations, they also attached a single document annex, which later turned out to be a falsification, i.e. it was not signed by a person designated as a signator in that annex. The same thing, of course, the same lawyer at the time and lawyer in this law firm, the current BIA chief, reiterated that the law firm in November 2016, delivering another counterfeit. Knowing that this attorney's office is close to the SNS regime, judges who conduct the proceedings do not blame them too much for delivering counterfeits, as neither the public prosecutor's office responds to criminal charges filed in connection with such counterfeited documents against the responsible persons of the banks and lawyers who use such documents. I ask you a question about what to hope for ordinary citizens of Serbia when actually banks are protected like this through law offices that are directly related to BIA bosses, when they want to do any justice as a client at all? So while many banks hold this law firm on the payroll, it is completely illusory to expect that the state, either through the government or through the National Bank of Serbia, will do anything to facilitate the situation of citizens and businesses in charge of banks, will borrow from currency clauses through which the robbery is carried out. So, who protects actually banks that rob Serbian citizens and don't make the verdicts they need to protect their banking clients. There's more evidence and materials related to this attorney's office and we're calling other banking clients who are damaged to contact us, the Dveri legal team, and to ask a question on their behalf. The second question concerns one of the legendary SNS promises from all false pre-election moments, which is the adoption of the Law on the Investigation of Origin of Property. As early as 2012, you promised to do so in the campaign, so in 2015, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic said it would be the law by the end of 2015, the prime minister again announced it in his exposé, and here at the end of 2016, there is no five-year law on the investigation of the origin of the property. During that time, media announce the Krkobbic dynasty 1,800,000 euros only in real estate, Defence Minister Zoran Djordjevic of the company and business with Telecom, with a state-owned company. The company was founded only to earn 88,000 euros. The only job this company has won without any public procurement, direct contract and other means, wealth on the back of this nation through your party schemes and combinations. So when are you going to pass the law on an investigation into the origin of the property? When will we be able to examine the origins of the assets of all of you politicians? In the end, how in Republika Srpska in "Telecom" there is a possibility...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12442	Thank you very much. I believe you have a lot to ask. We'll have another session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12443	Just one more sentence if it's not forbidden?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12444	Thank you, but it's already been nine seconds. Let's give the others a chance. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12445	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I would like to refer my question to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which refers to the order of driving "Serbia Train", which entered into force on 11 December 2016. With the new driving order that took effect on 11 December of this year, workers, students and students, who to the most extent use passenger transport by rail, have been prevented from using these services because the new driving order is not adapted to their real needs, and they mainly have monthly tickets to this kind of transport. It was precisely because of the new situation that citizens of the municipality of Vrbas sent a petition to “Serbia Train” entitled “Right to Railway Traffic” signed by 400 citizens to introduce new and return old departures on the route Novi Sad-drajevo-Vrbas at a time interval of 15.00 to 19.00 and from 22.00 to 23.00 hours. The petition's signatories note that most of the workers, students and students' working days end at exactly 15 o'clock, and workers of the second shift at 22 o'clock, and residents of the locals have no way of returning home. The inhabitants of the Dragons, the flat village, Kucura, Bačka Dobro Polje, launched a petition to introduce new train departures on the route Novi Sad-Kisac-Stepanovico-drajevo-Vrbas, with a special emphasis on the Zmajevo station, which is the hub of several inhabited places. I would especially point out that rail transport is important to citizens not only for economic reasons, although they are not negligible, but also because of improved conditions of travel on these trains, of course, and because of the uncertain fate of the Public Transport Company Vrbas, but I hope that the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will help local self-government overcome this problem and find a solution that will be in the interest of both citizens and employees of this public enterprise. At the same time, I would point out the importance of the railroad for our Vrbas municipality, as well as the neighboring municipalities of the Tower and the town of Sombor. We all know that, based on the analysis done by the foreign consulting house, close to 800km of railways for which there is no economic interest and proposed to local self-governments to take over the management of these railways or the railway infrastructure will abolish them. The deadline was 1 January 2017 to take over the management of the railways. Among others, the Vrbas-Sombor railroad was found in that group. It was obvious that he did an analysis of who did not know the situation on the ground, because at the same level of importance and justification, the Vrbas-Bechej railway, which lacks 30 kilometers of rail and one rail which is active and which is used alongside passengers and several economic operators, one of which is technologically dependent on the Railways, and this is about the Red Rose Sugar Factory. The representatives of the municipality of Vrbas, as well as representatives of the municipality of Kula and the city of Sombora, held a joint meeting in Sombor, after which they defined the common position that it is necessary for the railway through our municipalities to remain in office. Our local self-governments have pointed out the strategic importance of the Railways for the economic development and transport of the population and have advocated that the Vrbas-Sombor railway should be excluded from the list or that the deadline should be extended. The last information we have is that the railway infrastructure has respected our request, so that the Vrbas-Sombor railway remains in operation and under the management of the railway infrastructure. “ With everything in mind, as strategic economic importance and the importance of the railway for the citizens, I ask the question – is “Serbia Train” planning to introduce new and return old departures on the route Novi Sad-drajevo-Vrbas at a time interval of 15 to 19 hours and from 22 hours to 23 hours? The second question is that the railway infrastructure takes us to the opening procedure of the position for the transport of citizens of the local community Bačko Dobro Polje on the route Novi Sad-Vrbas-Novi Sad with passenger trains. Actions to open the mentioned view for the needs of passengers were launched as early as 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12446	The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12447	Thank you. My question is to the Minister of Education. It's probably a lot of people around here will think of him as malicious, but it's not really a case. It's a systemic problem that we face as a society. I think this is the right place to talk about him and find a solution together. Of course, he's the one who's the most responsible for saving him. Yesterday, a round of state officials suspected of plagiarizing their doctorates or in a suspicious way acquired academic titles that were registered by NBS Governor Jorvanka Tabakovic, which brought us to an extremely serious problem. In fact, for those who are suspected, and someone would say and it has been proven that they have plagiarized their doctoral dissertations, the list, or other scientific papers currently lists the president of the Republic, the governor of the NBS, the interior minister and the mayor of the capital. Ponic, president of the Republic, governor of the NBS, interior minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia and mayor of the capital are suspected of plagiarizing scientific works, buying diplomas, in a suspicious way gaining academic titles and titles and calling, and I think it is an extremely serious problem for our society. The problem is serious not only because it sends a criminal message to everyone who learns, works hard, tries to school in a fair way, that no work, no effort, no learning is paid, but that it is the easiest thing to pay someone to write a paper instead of you, to rewrite what someone has already done or otherwise to get a degree. It's a bad moral message that these officials send to all those who learn, work, work, and think that work and effort pay off. The bigger problem is that we in the higher education system have no legal solution for this problem. In fact, the Higher Education Act has defined that an institution that can run a background check, whether it's a degree, a master's or a doctor's degree, is exactly the one that issued that paper and no one else can run a background check. I think it's an extremely big problem that we have in a system that can be solved by a very simple amendment to the Law on Higher Education, although these things are, of course, defined by other laws, primarily by the Criminal Code, but also by the Law and related rights. Of course, we in the DS feel it's no shame when someone doesn't have a degree and there's no shame when someone's uneducated and there's no shame when someone doesn't graduate from college. On the contrary, honest, honest, hardworking and hardworking people have not finished colleges, are not doctors of science, are not masters and do not need to be betrayed and represented for something they are not. So it's no shame not to have a degree. It's a shame to buy a diploma. It's no shame not to write a doctoral dissertation. It's a shame to prescribe a doctoral dissertation. We feel that we should do if anything else, we need to make serious control mechanisms that will allow the plagiarization of scientific papers and other ways to be checked or to verify and prove the accusations of them, not just at the university's initiative in which these works are defended. Besides, we have a terrible bad message that these people send to all those young people in this country, and we really have a situation that because of doctors with bought diplomas, doctors with real diplomas are leaving the country mass, and doctors with bought diplomas are currently running our country. So, the question of the Minister is - how does he think he answers this challenge, and does he intend to draw up the Law on Higher Education, although he is now the fourth minister to announce here is about to pass the law, pay attention to this?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12448	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12449	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked a question a dozen days ago about a particular project concerning the work of the Commissioner and the Protector of Citizens, on an initiative called the Doctors Against Corruption, which asked me to ask that question. The question was – is it true that the Trustee and Protector received about 80,000 pounds from the British and Dutch embassies for a project called "The Alert Act Model". I haven't received the answer yet, but in the meantime, I've been through the political weakness of the Guardian and the Trustee. In this regard, my question to the President of Parliament and to the competent authorities is whether they should ask questions related to the work and projects being carried out by the Protector and the Trustee? Are they a protected species, are they in a political sense sacred cows, and can they deal with politics and try to bring down political inexperiences in parliament? Can MPs of the National Assembly, in short, ask questions about the work of those they have chosen and appointed here? That's my first question. The second question also concerns the untouchable Vuk Jeremic. My question, relating to the 25-year-old telecoms adviser, former defence minister, former chief of staff, adviser to everything and everything, former foreign minister, is it true that his organisation, the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development, via Hong Kong, has received three million euros from the NGO? With this in mind, I ask the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Money Laundering Authority, the National Bank – is it true that the organization, through Hong Kong, has made three million euros through the government? In this regard, the Tax Administration - is it true that this money was transferred to the personal accounts of Vuk Jeremic and members of his family, and that the corresponding tax was settled accordingly, i.e. did tax evasion occur? The question, questions on this issue, is this: Is it true that the same organisation, the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development, led by Vuk Jeremic, received from Qatar $200, and that the money in the same way came to the NGO, which I already said how, and that the money was transferred to the personal account of Vuk Jeremic and to the expense of members of his family? With that in mind, the same question for the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration, the Money Laundering Authority and the National Bank – is it true whether there was a tax offense and whether there was a so-called. Tax evasion? Why am I asking these questions? It is not related to what Vuk Jeremic said would be a candidate. For me, it's the candidate who collects ten thousand signatures. For me, it is the candidate who submits a certificate of citizenship, a certificate of residence, a confirmation of voting law and signed a statement. That's when it's a presidential candidate for me. In the meantime, he can only be a candidate. We can all be. I ask questions for another reason, and because Vuk Jeremic was foreign minister and what was then replaced by the UN Security Council Resolution, in my opinion, at the expense of the Republic of Serbia, and the money received this way is a possible income due to concessions made, in my opinion, by the Albanian side. With that in mind, I'm asking these organs to carefully check these claims that I've received and the data and to be clear. Has there been any abuse, tax evasion, because the foreign minister who transferred the powers from UNMIK to EULEX deserves full attention from the citizens, the National Assembly, and I expect to get an answer in the next two weeks and not wait, as I have waited for the Trustee and the Protector, or for the Protector and the protected species. So, I expect that, no matter what candidate he will be, we will get answers to these questions, because they are financial and tax issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12450	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12451	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important topic, and I think that because of the questions I'm going to ask and introduce this institution of parliamentary issues. It is, in effect, the vote of our state during the UN General Assembly on a resolution condemning the annexion of Crimea. I would ask the question, that is, through you, Mrs Gojkovic, also to the President of the State, Mr Nikolic, Prime Minister Vukic, of course, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. When did Serbia decide to build its future on other grounds rather than international law? Has Serbia ever voted against the norms on which the international order rests and how do we even think we regulate relations in our future, if we have trampled the idea of international law with our own vote, which we have practically opposed condemning the annexion of Crimea? It is clear why Serbia voted so. I think all the arguments I mention are very well known by Nikolic, and Vukic, and Dacic. It's because of the high pressure she's been exposed to. Pressure from Moscow, and we voted out of fear that we would lose Russia's support in trying to keep Kosovo within the framework of our country, if we support international law that does not oblige anyone when it comes to Kosovo. It's a catastrophic failure and a huge mistake, because by voting like that in New York, we actually said that international law is not binding, so with the same attitude that someone said before -- I don't care about international law, we should face tomorrow when we think it should be true for us again. What other way can regulate mutual relations if it is not international law? What's the real deal? What is it that keeps the Presevo Valley in Serbia? What's keeping Bosnia and Herzegovina? What's guarding northern Kosovo? What ideas do we think we're building our future on if we voted against ourselves in such a flexible way? We don't need an ambassador of Ukraine to say we shot ourselves in the feet. We shot ourselves in the head with that, and that's what's disastrous, and that's what's been done because this country is weak, not because those who water it don't know what they've done. They know very well. What has pushed Serbia so much that it can vote against itself in such a way? What kind of brotherly love is it that's so expensive? These are the questions we need to discuss, especially with regard to this topic that Risticevic is referring to in his question. Presidential elections and any parliamentary elections. We didn't open Montenegro in Serbia either, and what happened in Montenegro was Disneyland according to what we will see in Serbia, if the urgent parliament doesn't get smart, it doesn't start to deal with politics, so it squeezes those it has to squeeze to show that Serbia has a spine. A very serious topic, and I'm sorry that in such an atmosphere, we have to discuss such issues. Thank you. I expect an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12452	Thank you. I'll be sure to refer your question. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12453	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the National Assembly of the Republic. My question – when will the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia finally discuss its southern province? It is a principle still adopted by the Democratic Party that everything and everything can be discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We discussed many laws three, four or five times, making various changes and additions. Everything is important, everything is urgent, it only seems it doesn't matter what happens in Kosovo and Metohija. I'll remind you that most of the laws that this assembly was under review were by emergency procedure. As an emergency procedure, there are reportedly circumstances that threaten to result in some harmful consequences. It seems that whatever is going on in Kosovo and Metohija, whatever agreements are reached in Brussels, it cannot have any adverse consequences and the Assembly should never discuss it. In previous days, we had the opportunity to read SNS statements, where they say the province's MPs, although they are not province MPs, because they sold the interests of the Serb people for a handful of Albanian money in the Shiptar Assembly. He says the SNS circuit boards do not recognise anything that came from the treasonous agreement of Socialist MP Isa Mustafa's movement. As far as I'm concerned, I agree they're traitors, but I think they're all traitors involved. Anyone who was in the Shiptar government, in the Kosovo government, whether Bajram Rexhepi or Isa Mustafa, the principle is the same, is a traitor, he is working against Serbia, against the interests of the Serb people. But it's interesting when we hear it from the ruling coalition's mouth. They say it is an inappropriate appointment, an inappropriate person, doing so at a time when Serbs are trying to prevent the kidnapping of the "Trepce" and the blockade of the Agreement on the Community of Serb municipalities, that this exceeds the usual party dispute and that it is an insult to each decent Serb and Serbian, but obviously is not enough reason to be on the Parliament's agenda. The latest report on the Pristina-Belgrade dialogue, which we received on November 14th at the moment when representatives of the ruling coalition Marko Đuric and Aleksandar Vukic raised tensions to the people, when they became angry with the EU, but it lasted very short, we received a report that differs from all the others we received last year. A report that was somewhat honest and I'll read you some parts. It seems, for example. – that the European foreign-political service towards Belgrade's vision in the past period has led to negotiations below the level of its objective capabilities and the real needs of the normalisation process. It is difficult to avoid the impression that in the past, the intermediate party has insisted on talks and solutions only on those topics that are in Pristina's interest, the issue of the Mitrovica bridge, freedom of movement, telecommunications, justice, etc. He says no progress has been made since reaching an agreement on the general principles of 25 August 2015 on the establishment of a Serb municipality community and that is what your negotiator, Marko Djuric, says. He says they only talk about what Pristina is looking for. He personally said at the board meeting that Edith Tahiri publicly boasted that she was the one who wrote the conditions for opening the chapter and that this was confirmed later when we got those conditions. He also says that other negotiations are being violated, but what I may find most interesting about the judiciary, the latest group of judges and prosecutors passed a judicial exam on September 10th. A judicial exam under their laws. And he says about the electoral regulation that our side expects that the EU...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12454	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12455	Here's two seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12456	There's no need to quote that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12457	So I don't have the right to step over for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12458	That's terrible. (Nemnja Sarovic, from the place: It's really scary. I really appreciate who's telling me this, but it might even be a compliment to me. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: When I tell you this. I thank you. If you can keep going a little bit longer, just calm down so we can keep working. Do you mind? Thank you. Now we can move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12459	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The first question goes to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Director, on November 3rd, we sent a request for information of public importance, which is not answered. We'll appeal, of course, Shabic, but I'm trying to take this opportunity to ask these same questions. Question one – to provide us with information on all official travel in the country and abroad for the chairman of the Management Board of the PIO Fund in 2015 and 2016. And this destination travel, travel date, gross daily amount and expenses for each trip and aggregated per year, reason travel, copy of the reports from the official trip. Second, copies of all invoices registered as the cost of a team on the burden of the PIO Fund for 2013, 2015 and 2016. Then information on whether the PIO Fund has agreed to use one official car to the PUPS, on which basis, in which period, which bear the costs of depreciation and registration of the vehicle, which brand is concerned, which year of manufacture, and which requires a copy of the acts governing the right to use the vehicle between the PUPS and the PIO Fund. And information whether and how many rooms owned by the PIO Fund have been allocated to the use of PUPS, and we require all contracts between the PIO Fund and the PUPS on the use of business premises. At a time when pensioners' pensions and money spending on subsidies to foreign investors, for various other things to party personnel, we think it is very important to get transparency on these specific issues. The second issue goes to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. A text, namely an interview with a member of a marketing team of SNS, one of the many, who worked as a telephone operator, surveyor and promoter, because she dealt with things like commenting on websites, commenting on all the places where we have so-called. The points the public already knows a lot about. From the very text we have a few very interesting things that these marketing teams of SNS are dealing with. The question is for the Prime Minister, is this true and why this kind of thing allows. From the very interview he says so – at the very beginning I worked at the location of telephone operator, surveyors and promoters, complete lists of names and last names we should have called, as we spoke among ourselves, directly from the Telekom base, as well as from municipal party bases, the order was to find out what people dream, and promise them that. The question is, did they really do this?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12460	Is that in line with Article 287, MP? I'm interested, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12461	Don't interrupt me, we're not interrupting anyone else. A question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia who would have to take care of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12462	You are my mother's fairy tale, but I must interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12463	Let me finish the questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12464	Just tell me who you're asking for newspaper articles?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12465	Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. You take my time, the citizens watch. Let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12466	I'm glad they're watching, but we need to have meaningful questions in accordance with Article 287.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12467	Allow me to ask questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12468	Okay. It's gonna be okay. I won't interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12469	Give me back the minute you took away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12470	I won't pay you back a minute, you ask in accordance with Article 287, someone who can answer your paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12471	A question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Then he says -- the attack on Fahreto Jahic Zivojinovic was planned, staged within those teams controlled by the SNS, marketing agencies "Tibotoa". Since her production of Grand threatened the business of their competition, they released stories that Bob beat Brenna to discredit the family.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12472	Ambassador, I believe this is an endless entertainment for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12473	I'm not amused by anything. These are very serious questions, as this is how you describe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12474	I can ask Bob and Bren to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12475	By the SNS marketing teams, led by the SNS is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. (Saša Radulovic, from a place that should be familiar with this. [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12476	Your analogy is fantastic. Believe me. But about Brenna and Boba, I can't let us ask a question in this esteemed home. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I am not interested in your opinion at all. I have a right to ask a question. You have no right to ask anything. Because of this House's dignity, I cannot allow you to ask about Boba and Brenna. That's what it is. (Saša Radulovic, from the site: concerning the abuse that is happening. I'll give you a chance to ask a question. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I don't want to think about it, I already have questions. All right. But that's the second time. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: I will not go another time, I will now.) I know, and I'd like Santa to bring me a giant toy, but he won't. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You are not sorry. Give me back my word. I have the right to speak. I'm scared. I feel terrible already. (Saša Radulović, from town: What are you afraid of? Give me back my word. I'm afraid they'll call me Bob and Bren and ask what they have to do with Parliament's work. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: I have a question for the Prime Minister. Give me back my time. ) For the sake of the public and for the sake of honourable MPs, who understand what our Rules of Procedure requires, which is that, in accordance with Rule 288 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they ask a question or ask for notice from the duties of officials and the authority of the authorities at the head of the Parliament of the National Assembly. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: And Aleksandar Vukic is headed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, including the marketing tricks of the SNS. That's great. Sit down, please, I understand everything. Thank you very much. Sit down. I understand. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: You understood nothing, give me back my time. All right, Milisav Milojevic. Who is the Messenger, Milisav Milojevic, in the hall? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12477	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my first question is addressed to the Ministry of Industry. First of all, I would like to express my great gratitude on behalf of the citizens and citizens of Arandelovac, as well as on my personal behalf, for all the implemented projects and assistance provided by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous four years. The result of the huge trust and support that we had as a local self-government during this period made Arangelovac to be a business, economic, infrastructure and tourism much nicer and more advanced city today than it was just a few years ago. By the time we got to the SNS government in Arangelovac for almost a decade, much has not been done to improve the city and its inhabitants, and the vast majority of the Arangelovs know well. It wasn't invested in roads, agriculture and tourism, and our biggest companies went bankrupt. Once again, I would like to express my gratitude to the government of the Republic of Serbia for the integration of internships and the social programme for bankruptcy companies, which has made a large number of workers exercise their rights. About 200 workers from Shamut received from a solidarity fund of nine lagging minimum earnings and have been associated with an internship. A social programme for Elta workers has also been implemented. The issue we are interested in is about the bankruptcy proceedings against the bankruptcy debtor "The collective" a.d., which was opened by the Business Court in Kragujevac, IST55/2010, from 2 July 2010, based on the notice of the National Bank of Serbia and at that time had 111 employees, mostly owned by the Republic of Serbia Action Fund with a stake of 72% and with assets leased. The question we're asking is, when will the bankruptcy process that's been going on for six years be over? Is it possible to speed up the process in order to reconcile obligations towards creditors who are mostly workers as well as the Serbian state itself? This question is of some importance to us, for the reason that a large number of immovableities owned by the bankruptcy debtor "Collective" a.d. is located in the strict center of the city, as well as in the rural local communities are failing. Nobody cares about them, and there's no point right now. Most of these objects are damaged and represent the mockery of the Aralite. It is our desire to put these objects into function or eventually leave them to new investors to reconstruct these objects. The Banjsko mesto Arangelovac in the previous period returned to Serbia's tourist map and increased the number of overnight stays and visits to our municipality year after year. A large number of mentioned immovableities would contribute to the development of the tourism potential we have. My second question is to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. During 2015 and 2016, the biggest infrastructure project has been completed in Arangelovac in the last few decades. Thanks to the support of the government of the Republic of Serbia, more than 25km of the state road that connects the municipalities of Topol, Arangelovac and Lazarec has been reconstructed. The total value of this investment is over 11m euros. This state-of-the-art infrastructure investment has significantly linked three municipalities and has enabled significantly better functioning, transfer of telecommunications goods and other road transport interconnection systems. We were honored that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and his associates attended the opening of the road. A share of the road of the first row, number 27, was made on the route of the Meat Community - Krčevac - Arangelovac in the length of nine kilometers, i.e. for the first time, the first B row number 27 of the section Kruševica - Arangelovac in the length of 17.6 kilometers. The question we are asking is – is it possible to combine these two significant investments over two and a half kilometers? When can we expect this reconstruction that would bring together two shares and complete the entire transit section that passes through the Arangelovac? This issue is of great importance because the companies in Arangelovac record very large increases in the export and transport of goods carried out on this section of the road and therefore requires reconstruction of the damaged and burdened part of August. Once again, we thank you for helping investment and projects, and we hope to continue with the excellent co-operation we have. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12478	Thank you. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a shorter period than the deadline set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the Assembly to consider and adopt the proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 15, 16, 17, 18, 22 and 23 November of this year. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – there is no one with abstentions. I conclude that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly held on 15, 16, 17, 18, 22 and 23 November of this year. With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session is contained. Before we move on to the adoption of the agenda, we need to decide on the motions for an emergency supplemental and merger procedure. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, by emergency procedure. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure draft law confirming a loan agreement for a privileged buyer for a highway building project E 763 shares of Surcin – Obrenovac, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance as a borrower and the Chinese "Export - Import Bank" as a lender. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – two abstentions – no, 30 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed to put on the agenda the draft law confirming the loan agreement, additional financing for the Corridor 10 highway project between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 versus – one with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia be put on the agenda of an emergency procedure on the basis of foreign exchange savings of citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of unpaid foreign exchange savings from banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (another programme loan for the development and restructuring of state-owned enterprises) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – no one, with abstention, has. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a draft law amending the Law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services be put on the agenda. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the takeover of the company's obligations for the production of petrochemical products, raw materials and chemicals "HIP – Petrochemija" Panchevo, according to the company Oil Industry of Serbia, a.d. Novi Sad and the conversion of these obligations into the public debt of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 versus – one with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payments System of Public Sector Employees. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested putting the AP Vojvodina financing bill on the agenda as an emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 12, against – 155 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The SNS parliamentary group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Nemanja Sarovic suggested putting on the agenda, following an emergency procedure -- a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the murder and political background of the murder of Zoran Djindjic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote of 151 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Attorney General in Tristenik. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Zarko Korać, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic have proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Labour Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda – a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia's Board of Governors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Culture and Information proposed that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – the selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, from the list of candidates submitted by authorised applicants: associations whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children and universities accredited in the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48. The law on enforcement and security (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’, No 106/15). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda – Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 1, Articles 5(1) and 53. St. 1st and 2nd. The Expropriation Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’), number 53/95, 23/01 –SUS, 20/09/ and 55/13 -US), item 19 of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee from the list of candidates submitted by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, v – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the points - Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on Police. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the dots - a draft law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts on the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of the facility in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts on the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nada Lazic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12479	I have proposed that the President-in-Office, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament be amended to amend the Law, i.e. supplement and amend the current Law on Public Roads. It is, in fact, a supplement of the members relating to the safety belts along the roads, more specifically the raising of wind protection belts. As you can see, we have a dry fall, there is no winter, big trash can happen to us again, and I will remind you that in 2014 when there were big garbage, big problems on the roads across Vojvodina, February 5th was particularly important, because that day, even the prime minister himself helped save the curtains. At that time, there was a promise that along the roads in Vojvodina, which are specific according to their structure, because it is a hurricane and where there are no wind protection belts, or where there are necessary woodways along the roads, that along the highway and along the roads at all, these belts will be raised. Namely, Serbia's wind protection belts are nobody's concern and unfortunately the reaction of state authorities and state road controllers, which are "Serbian Roads" or other roads that are the jurisdiction of the municipalities in the case of junk only comes when there really are elemental accidents. Unfortunately, the protection belts of the trees along the road have been destroyed by those who have become and do not rise new ones. I've got a chance to see, just along the highway, there's a couple of guys stuck there and nothing more, and right with winter months they can help prevent the making of snow and avoid major damage and major problems. In the past few decades, the planting of protective wood is a forgotten practice. Even, unfortunately, here's an example of a major environmental activist in Backo Topoli, who's even saddened by one of the owners of a country that's already several times been planted, simply destroying the plant, and now it's finally that man's guilty. So we simply want this to be raised to the level of the law and to be regulated by the law that one who manages roads and maintains, or raises and maintains these wind-protection belts, that is to say, puts wood on the roads as the necessary measure to protect them in the winter months from garbage, and in the summer months from wind erosion. Vojvodina is, unfortunately, the region with the slightest deforestation in Europe. There are around 6% of forest areas, and EU standards are at least 14%. Unfortunately, my colleagues who are very jealous simply obviously not interested. I just hope we don't have any junk this year and we don't have any snow and this Assembly won't be dealing with the costs of these basic disasters again. That's exactly what I'm proposing to amend this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12480	Thank you. I'm putting this bill to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for ten against them. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12481	Thank you, Chairman. I have proposed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government in the part relating to the functioning of local communities as the lowest level with which citizens have the most frequent contact. In fact, the existing legislation provides that local communities in urban areas do not have to be formed, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 176 provides for the right of all citizens to be able to achieve their local self-government directly or through their freely elected representatives at the lowest levels of government, which are precisely local communities. Therefore, the bill refers to making local communities compulsory, both in rural areas and in urban areas. What is very important is their financial independence, i.e. financial decentralisation, which implies that part of the property tax is transferred directly to local communities' accounts in terms of 80% of local communities in the rural area of property tax, and a minimum of 20% for local communities formed in urban areas. In this way, in fact, we show that we are ready to truly want to carry out decentralisation in Serbia, we want to bring power to all citizens, no matter what part of the territory of the country or some municipality or city lives, and, most importantly, the local communities gain greater independence and gain greater importance. It will also motivate some people who today are quality, able and want to participate in the work and development of their places of living, to participate in it themselves. It'll actually have a motive. In this way, in the current legislation, we can hardly motivate those people who do not get a warrant from their local parties to participate in local communities to get involved in this race and to work truly for them. So, I think that the local communities should not depend excessively on politics and political entities, especially because they are democratic institutions on which citizens who want to participate in the work of the local community's council are chosen by name and last name. Therefore, I call on you to support this bill, especially for the reasons that some municipalities, such as the municipality in Tristenik, are currently taking place or will hold elections for the councils of the local communities, but I also note that because they are not of great importance, some municipalities, such as the municipality in Tristenik, have not yet called elections for the local communities, although the law says they are under obligation six months from the establishment of the municipal authority to hold elections for the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12482	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12483	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Unfortunately, I have to re-propose the Law on Amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, although last week we had this point, that is, on the agenda. Unfortunately, the changes that occurred in that law are cosmetics and do not change the essence. In fact, our farmers, primarily small farmers we have in Serbia, of 75% of the total number of registered agricultural holdings, about 480,000 small agricultural holdings of 630,000, as far as we have, will continue to face major problems in how to survive and how to maintain their own production. In this law, I propose what is essential, which is that change is an incentive in the Encouragement Act and thus helps our farmers to carry out their work more easily. I note that this law is important, above all, because it covers two million people who today in Serbia are employed in their land and are engaged in agricultural production. So the biggest employer in Serbia at this time is small family agricultural holdings, and the least of their attention is being paid to them and that's not good. So please take this law seriously. We have enough resources. We can't talk about it now, because here we are listening to the Prime Minister's praises, from the finance minister that we're full of cash, we have various surpluses. Here, at this session of the Assembly today, we will take over 105m euros in the debt that Petrochemy has. And don't tell me we don't have the resources now to help our farmers most in Serbia. The easiest way to hire Serbia is through investments in agriculture. We have the potential of several billion euros in exports through agricultural production, but in order to achieve it, we have to invest something. We are unfortunately one of the few countries that, for example, exports apples for half a year, and the other half of the year imports. We continue to import tomatoes and peppers into Serbia, which is inadmissible and I believe that this is something that must be interrupted, but I do not see the desire and I do not actually see the awareness of those who today in Serbia are making decisions on how important agriculture is and how much potential we do not use as a country that can achieve certain results in the area of agriculture. So I suggest we put this law on the agenda. I propose that these measures and amounts for the incentives that I have foreseen, above all concerning plant production, to milk premiums, be raised, because, note, Minister Nedimovic announced that since the end of this year, there will be no more protection against imports of milk for our dairy producers here in Serbia. They will be exposed to serious competition and unless we help them out of the budget, there is a great danger that they will even manage to maintain their own production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12484	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12485	It's just amazing to me that here I am for how long we haven't wanted to put this law on the agenda, or most people don't want to put it on the agenda. SNS MPs do not want the presidents of municipalities and mayors of their ranks to be able to scholarship their students and their students. In fact, it's about harmonising the law on local self-government with the Law on Student Standard, where you practically need to enable municipalities and cities to, in accordance with the laws, finance their students and their students. It's a more technical thing, but it's a serious problem with local self-government, because whenever any inspection service or DRI comes, they make a point that they don't have the right to scholarship students and students from the local budget. In fact, how important this is to say and the fact that we have 58,000 people who left Serbia last year, wanting to build their future in some developed countries. Half of our children today want to go to Serbia. The main topic today is where it's easier to go, where it's better to go. Rarely anyone who thinks today how he'll help his country. This is one way to prevent the ten-year trend, in which we 175 people who have left Serbia have lost. In fact, we must show our desire and will that we are ready and able to finance these people, their education, reward their work, their effort, their diligence, and in some ways motivate them to stay in their country after their studies, education, and as some future generation of people to continue to build this country and to develop it and create a good place to live. I don't know, actually, what we have to do yet to make someone realize how important this is and I'm really asking you to consider it. I also agree to make this bill a SNS proposal. Here, let the SNS give this bill, I will withdraw, but let us make it easier for these young people and their families to finance their education and education, on the other hand, to help leaders in local self-government that they can through funding from the local budget practically and implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12486	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12487	Thank you, Chairman. This law is very important because the Ministry of Economy and the Government of the Republic of Serbia declared this year 2016 as a year of entrepreneurship. If this is a year of entrepreneurship, it actually involves changing certain laws, harmonising legislative regulations. Minister Sertic announced an amendment to more than 40 laws that would facilitate the functioning of all businesses in Serbia. What did we get out of it in practice? We didn't get almost anything, just someone else in a series of false promises from the government of the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm proposing this law today. This law refers to changes in two members of the Law on corporate tax. First, it implies that any taxpayer who employs new workers in the current year is practically downgraded the base for paying the profit tax for the amount of contributions paid to workers employed for a period of at least two years. In this way, in fact, we allow people to employ workers, motivate them and encourage them to, withdraw workers from the gray zone, and on the other hand, develop entrepreneurship in Serbia. The second bill is that in the economically undeveloped areas in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we help the private initiative and free the income tax from all those legal entities that are newly established for a period of three years. In fact, that way we provide them with some kind of support, and then we could say that in the year of entrepreneurship you have done something concrete and for our businessmen. All of your governments have swore to entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs since 2012. Unfortunately, we have fewer and fewer of these companies and instead of buying out of the half-empty budget foreign investors with 10,000 euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12488	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12489	I'm not done, one more minute, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12490	Well, two minutes and 10 seconds. What do I do? Yeah, three minutes. Excuse me. I'm sorry, you have your 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12491	So instead of worshiping foreign investors with 10,000 euros per job, I think we could help our private entrepreneurs in Serbia with much less money and money, and at this point there are about 300,000 of them. But unfortunately, they account for only 30 per cent of GDP, unlike EU countries, where over half of GDP is created out of the business of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is not because our entrepreneurs have no entrepreneurial ideas, or because they are lazy, or because they are not able to send the market, but because they do not have a regulated system, they do not have system institutions and they do not have a state that will create a favourable climate for them to function and this is a big problem, and the result is that six new private companies are being shut down by 10 existing private companies. So we need to create a more favourable environment, and this law is just one step towards it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12492	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12493	Thank you. The idea and purpose of this appeal to fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support the proposal to discuss the start of this amendment to the Law on Games has the aim of actually filling differently, and thus increasing the dedicated budget fund for the treatment of rare diseases and conditions which cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, according to the law on gambling, therefore, it is the revenues made from poker machines, from bookmakers, etc., 60% of these revenues are transferred directly to the republican budget, and the remaining 40% are divided into several also budget funds intended for the financing of the Red Cross, for units of local self-government, sport and youth, etc. Reparation of these funds within these 40% varies from area to area, and for the treatment of rare diseases and conditions that cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia, but can be outside the Republic of Serbia, a percentage of 5% or barely 5% is foreseen. My proposal that this law relocate funds from poker machines and bookmakers differently, namely, that only 50% are originally poured directly into the republican budget, and the other 50% change in favour of this budget dedicated rare disease fund, with 5% of this relationship being increased to 25% at the moment, and in fact, if we look at the current state of the Republic of Serbia's budget, this fund with 200 million final dinars would be increased by almost that much, i.e. about 400 million dinars. I am saying this because just in the budget debate we heard from the Minister of Health that this dedicated budget fund for the treatment of rare diseases and conditions outside the Republic of Serbia was established in 2013, that 260 million were enough last year for applicants to apply. However, we have also learned that a small number of citizens or parents, especially children, who would have the right to use these funds, do not know at all about this budget fund and therefore we still have an intense phenomenon that especially children are treated with rare diseases through SMS and humanitarian concerts. Therefore, I believe that the debate on this proposal to change this law in favour of not only the popularity of this fund is just informing parents, especially that they can use these funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12494	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12495	Thank you, President. This amendment to the Law on the financing of local self-government, i.e. our municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, is in fact intended to restore the budgetary situation in our municipalities and cities as it was before the change of the same law two months ago, i.e. that the revenues of the locals from the income tax return to 80%. It is one of the safest, if not the safest income of municipalities and cities, and it is quite clear why the central level of government has just decided that from the safest revenues of municipalities and cities it takes part and centralises the additionally this, I say, the safest income of municipalities and cities, but the consequences already visible at the level of the locals, I think should be further concerned, especially the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, as a matter of fact. On several occasions, I have already mentioned, starting with my town of Panchev, that municipalities and cities are starting with intense borrowing, or taking credit, of course, under commercial conditions, to replace this damage to their budget through credit debt. My Pancheva, for example. In charge of almost a billion dinars. So one-fifth of the budget's value is credit debt. The city of Zrenjanin is in debt for 700 million dinars. The city of Nis is in charge of nearly two billion dinars, and everything to come in contact with that centralist reduction in local incomes from profit taxes, and to provide additional funds for elemental competences, so-called. the original competences of municipalities and cities, such as the maintenance of hospitals, i.e. homes of health, maintenance and painting and the provision of elementary hygiene conditions of primary schools, in particular, and secondary schools, except in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which is the founder and autonomous province. So I would like to appeal to my colleagues that we also open a debate under this law, that we actually return to the previous state of affairs of this law, which is following the Law on Local Self-Government, to first amend the Law on Local Self-Government, and only then this current, following the Law on the Finance of Local Self-Government, because practically the central level has cut off the financial part of the funds to the safest municipalities and cities, without reducing their competences, and they are now, having to take care of basic powers, being put into a position to be in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12496	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -15. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12497	Thank you, President. My proposal, which I urge to understand both fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, to support that this is also being discussed and put on the agenda, is, in fact, the amendment and addition of Article 5. Law banning manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. At this point, Article 5 reads – the event, the emphasis of symbols or markings or any other action by members or supporters of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations and associations – is considered to be any organised or spontaneous public appearance in which hatred, intolerance or discrimination is caused against members of any nation or national minority or church or religious community. My proposal is to supplement this Article 5 - and to persons of different sexual orientations, i.e. members of lesbian, gay or bisexual populations or transgender persons, or LGBT populations. In addition to a series of documents, both a declarative character and the laws which recognise discrimination of every kind, and also to our fellow citizens and fellow citizens of different sexual orientations, I believe that this relationship should be recognized in this law, given that we are all witnesses and very intensely familiar with how neo-Nazis or fascists or homophobias and transphobias, not only take the law into their own hands, but also pass through their hands all those who legitimateize as citizens of different sexual orientations. I believe that between propaganda or organisation of manifestations, emphasising symbols to such fatal consequences of what unhidden promotion, advocate, and ultimately applying homophobia and transphobia, especially in the context of neo-Nazis and fascists in our country, is a very thin line, and that the state must stand very clearly as a dam and as a clearly declared protector of all citizens and respect for all fundamental rights and freedoms, both when they apply to national rights, to religious rights and rights that are related to freedom regarding different sexual orientations. I appeal to my colleagues to be encouraged and to support a bill like this to be on the agenda at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12498	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstention for -11, against – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12499	Thank you, President. The direct consequence of this initiative to amend the Criminal Code is the recent situation when the Criminal Code was also amended by introducing a new criminal act – public approval, or denial of genocide, which, according to this new member of the Criminal Code, refers only to the judicial verdicts in Serbia, the International Criminal Court. At that time, I have submitted an amendment to extend this article and to refer it to The Hague court, in a shortened version, to the International Court of Justice or to the World Court. I also asked the Minister at the time – on what basis has a selection of some international courts that are recognised by this member and other international courts not? This is about these other international criminal tribunals dealing directly with the problems of our country's former country, and somehow it was illogical that it was forbidden to deny genocide or war crimes on another continent, such as African, for example, and that the practical denial of genocide and war crimes for those war crimes and genocides that were committed on our behalf was allowed. The second reason why I submitted this initiative is, I would feel free to say, because I was deceived or deceived during the debate itself, because I was not given the right to explain the amendment that was identical to this legal intervention that I propose, and on the grounds that it was rejected as anti-constitutional. Turns out it wasn't true, and he wasn't at all considered anti-constitutional, and I never got such an explanation from the board of directors. I believe that this political maneuver is that this topic at all, even through a two-minute explanation of the amendments, turns out to be effective. Thank you for being able to have three minutes at the beginning of each session to explain now the legislative initiative and, I believe, more carefully and more carefully all colleagues follow, which is the subject of this initiative, and that one day, if not today, then, in the near future, they will also be ready to accept the fact that all international courts, which in any way deal with war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, find a place in our name in our Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12500	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I agree that the proposal was not accepted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, he suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12501	Thank you very much. This is probably the tenth time I repeat my appeal that the parliamentary majority accept this bill and thus prevent the criminalisation of the academic sphere in our country. We have, as you know, and as the public knows, already several high-ranking state officials whose academic title, whose diplomas are mildly said under great doubt, and many have already been proven to be counterfeit. It's a diploma from the president of the state, it's a degree from the interior minister, Dr Milorad Cvijovic, i.e. a pardon, Nebojsa Stefanovic, a doctorate, we heard this morning, the governor of the National Bank, who was otherwise defended by that doctorate under bombs in Pristina in 1999, the doctorate of Belgrade Mayor, diploma of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and many others. Of course, the flood of academic fraud has not begun with this authority, and that is why more is that colleagues from across the street, who make up most, contribute to the fight against every type of crime. I think the crime of education and crime in the academic sphere is one of the worst. No matter what does not bring directly great material benefits. It permanently destroys one area, one state, one society. I think there's a lot of witnesses who've already felt it on their backs. That's how we dissipate young people from this country, because why teach school, that's how they reason, when it's much more important to get into a party than a college. When it's much more important to glue someone's posters or spoil your belly with sandwiches that the bots get in the attics of some Belgrade and provincial buildings. That's why I'm asking you to accept this proposal. The Serbian government has otherwise made a positive statement about this proposal in its position, which was adopted on 29 September, signed by Aleksandar Vukic, says the fact that certain weaknesses in the system and individual solutions, etc., have been observed during the years of application of the Law on Higher Education, and the government is preparing to pass a law that will sanction the area. I'm offering my help, to shorten the troubles of the government, and to bring it as much as we can at today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12502	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I agree that the proposal was not accepted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, he suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and editing of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12503	As you already know, since I've been saying it for more than two years, the reasons for passing this law are that the existing law does not guarantee legality in this area. On the contrary, the existing law, and many laws before it, that this is again not exclusive to the current authorities, was there in the former authorities, and in some of the previous 30, 40 and some more recent ones, which is that the area of planning and construction was about chaos. For a while, the justification for that was that it was a social aspect and that it should be allowed for people who had raised some money to make themselves anything, so that we wouldn't really be picking on the rules. But that time is long gone. In 2003, an excellent law was passed, for the next minister in charge of the area, first in one village, next to Cačka, built an object of several thousand squares that was completely unjustly built. And when the minister could do that, then everyone realized that they should do the same thing, that's how they should continue. We have a Law of Law that should resuscitate the consequences of decades-long chaos in the area, but as the public is aware, as it is very obvious, this law has no effect, because by the end of November, when it was a deadline, that local self-government is processing all examples of illegal construction that has several hundred thousand, say about 800,000, only 10% of these objects are put on record, and a legal thing that would be measured by promiscuity. That is why it is necessary, in parallel with the Law on Law-Making, which should be implemented effectively or even better, to amend that law, and I will propose that by next session, through intubulation, through another process, all that has been built so far, and that it is not about investment construction and that it is not about building that is in forbidden areas by the river, alongside military facilities and in all other forbidden places. This way we'll have an example of having a mouthful of justice and respect for the law, and then there's the cottages of the president of the state who's out of it. We have a suspicion that in those cottages, which are made without law, in the wrong place, without any permission, it can make people, the owners of those cottages, say they're learning Oriental dance. Which is completely inappropriate for our corridors.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12504	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Does the MP, Zoran Zivkovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12505	Of course. What's the idea? As you know, we're going to have an election, it's going to be Presidentially safe in April, and I look forward to it, and I look forward to mentioning parliamentary ones. I hope that the Belgrade elections will also be held, and several other municipalities in the interior, and thus give the opportunity to have a happy new, not party, in this case, but a happy new 2017 election year really happy for the largest number of Serbian citizens. When the election's over, there's campaigns. When campaigning, there is a huge amount of people's, national money being thrown into the advertising videos of political parties and other participants in the election process that these ads, these videos, do not meet the minimum of aesthetic, political, sociological, any criteria that we can apply. I therefore propose that commercial advertising be banned from all political parties, all participants in political life for two reasons. First because the parties that are in power, not only now, but also in the past, always have a tenfold advantage over other parties, because they use money from the budget, from direct legal and illegal sources, and thus are spent annually making it legal, much more illegal, close to 100m euros in years when we have in general elections. It's a huge level of money. One hundred million euros is money that would solve many problems in many areas of social life. We have, let's say, the other day we had a donation on television where the director of the "Electro Network of Serbia", in the presence of the health minister, and in the presence of the godfather and president of Serbia, donated to treat children five million dinars. Five million dinars are 40,000 euros, and for stupid commercials, 100 million are spent on political parties. Let's figure out what that is. All children, all people who are being treated for diseases that have no cure in Serbia, all prevention for children who are not yet born, all prevention and action for out-of-body fertilisation, all that would allow Serbia to become a country where children are born again, live healthy and stay here, can be rid of the money spent on an election campaign on television. I don't think there's any greater motive for you to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12506	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: ten, ten, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of Members of Parliaments. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12507	Thank you. This law is related to the previous one, because in the Law on the Selection of National MPs there is the possibility of these commercial advertisings being carried out. My amendment reads to be amended by bringing in a new member of 49a – it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media, broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, voters of the electoral lists, for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. So there's no advertising. How do citizens get information about who to vote for, who to get to who the candidates are, what are the political programmes and what are the objectives? Well, of course, by getting to know the electronic media and the written media in their own account, by getting to know them in special shows or special editions or in regular shows and regular editions of citizens with all candidates of electoral lists in shows that will be promotional, free, which are still available today, even better in shows that would lead to dialogue between different political parties, candidates and thus create a normal, healthy atmosphere, for people to see who is offering. So today, aside from these big ads that are being thrown 100m euros when it's election year, we have a completely abnormal situation, but a completely sick situation, that the representatives of the government in the last four years, five years, never went out on a TV duel, not to talk about a radio or something like that or a direct duel, let's say, here in this House any of the opposition. Well, how come you're so successful and you're running away from sharing your success with the opposition? To beat us to our feet, to show us how smart he is, anyone. It's not there. That's why it has to change. By the way, let me tell you, this is no fiction or demagogy that we have today as much in the state and in the government, but unfortunately in this Parliament, it's a good custom. Such a ban on advertising, lies for decades, in countries that have made little more progress in the process of democracy than Serbia, such as Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain and many other countries. If they can without stupid, aesthetically unacceptable and politically harmful ads to convince their citizens to choose good, normal, healthy governments, I don't know why we can't do it, and responsibility is on us, Serbian parliamentarians, because we are the direct choice of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12508	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one, 134 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by points — Proposal for a Law supplementing the Government Act. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12509	Thank you very much. I've done it a few times before, but for those of you who don't hear it or who don't understand it, let me say it one more time. The idea is that candidates for members of the government, meaning for the Prime Minister and the Minister, before they are elected for the post, if we vote for them in the majority, we as MPs, before that bring medical assurance that they are capable of working in the state bodies, as people who are employed in the administration, security, people who provide hygiene services, who care about certain other things. Why don't the ministers go through that little doctor's appointment? This little medical examination would lead to making sure that normal people come to the government, physically ready for what they expect, for hard work, twenty-five, six hours a day, some working at 27, when it comes to them, and especially to be mentally prepared for all these trials. It's not easy for you to win every day in all fields and stay normal. That's why I suggest that a preliminary review be carried out for all these candidates, then it wouldn't happen to us, let's say you have a minister who tells you that he likes to see journalists who kneel, not God, I don't know if it ever happened to us, but this would be a prevention. Or, let's say, that someone comes to us to propose to us on the agenda that the state of Serbia takes over 150 million debt from Pancheva, because it's good for our future and that's another victory. And this "Petrochemical" when it was made there in the 1980s, those who sold it to us then, Americans, said that technology is changing very quickly and that ten years of technological term of the equipment. It's been thirty and a few years since. We're still throwing money away. That's all an abnormal person can suggest. This review would prevent that from happening. There wouldn't be any chance of that happening. That someone is saying that our budget is the best, greatest, most kissed by his mother, for the first time in history, in the Balkans, in Europe, since Tito was before Tito. Aman, people, no budget has been made in the last four years, and not in the last seven, eight years before that, and it was the most. Nothing, nothing at all. GDP growth for the next year is 3%, so in 2003, when a smart government led this country, it was 4.5% like this, so we didn't mention it was a big one. Finally, it would prevent us from, let's say, being elected to the Serbian government, for example, Alexander Vulin. I think this law would absolutely defend such an event.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12510	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda to the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12511	We're in a critical situation here. The election is safe, Presidential in four months. Perhaps this is the last chance to amend the law that says that Article 11 and Article 3 after point 2 are amended, the point 2 is added, which is that the candidate should submit medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies. Without it, he won't be able to be chosen to run. Why does it matter? First, because I say the elections are in four months, they'll be called in February of the month, and we have to pass the law before that. Secondly, it is not usual for election laws to change in the election year, but the New Year even comes to Serbia on December 31st, so in about nine days, it is the deadline for us to pass this law and thus save face. What can that stop us from? You know what, anyone can run for president. There should be 10,000 signatures, there should be some belief that he's not under investigation, that he's not being punished, that he agrees to apply, and I'm also saying that he has a medical conviction to establish a working relationship in the state authorities. It's an obstacle. It's a dam. Let's say we get a president who sees yellow people, who come and make something, a channel that connects the Danube plum and the Aegean plum, through Little Cross. It could happen to us, say, that God didn't let us have a president who went to visit us, not to God to do something like that, to visit Kuwait and bring the brandy he made himself, and the Arabs don't drink alcohol, so we barely go through without scandals. Or, if God hadn't given us a chance to get the president into the United Arab Emirates, and he starts dancing, to hear some music, it's that music when those snakes are supposed to come out of the basket, and he thinks it's music for dancing and then he catches some half umbrella or some scepter ruling, he doesn't give God, and he starts dancing in an effort to climb the Astal that stands in that room. Of course, people applaud, what they know, maybe they think it's the custom Serbian to do so. But it's not, it's a mess. Finally, it could happen to us, because some president, who can be elected tomorrow, has some direct connection to some criminals from Bulgaria who give him free bottles for packing brandy, to prevent the delivery of a criminal who has a red warrant for Interpol. We can prevent that from happening if you're voting for these amendments to the law now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12512	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session agenda – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Does MP Zoran Zivkov want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12513	I've talked before, but let me say it again. The historical truth is that the Serbian people were the victim of genocide. The historical truth is that genocidal intentions are not exclusive only directed towards the Serbian people and that many peoples have been victims of such intentions, and some of these intentions have been fulfilled. One of these evil intentions was fulfilled between 1915 and 1922, at the time of the Ottoman Empire, when genocide was carried out on the Armenians. There's no historical dilemma. All the facts that can prove such an intention and the fulfillment of such evil intentions exist. I think it's good for a people who were themselves a victim of genocide to point to genocide as a universal bad term, and we can do that now if we do it as a Serbian parliament by condemning what happened to Armenians almost 100 years ago. We would not be first in this process, but we would enter a group of countries whose parliaments have made such decisions and I think it is a good society. I'll tell you who did all this: the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, the Parliament of California and several other states of the United States, some smaller countries in Latin America and Asia. I think that's a good thing, to point out that the genocide story doesn't just have the mark of one nation, whether it was a genocide, whether it was a genocide, but that it was happening in history, that it was happening until about ten years ago, and who tells us it wasn't going to happen again. If we bring one of these resolutions, it will be along with these other states dams to repeat bad history, bad history, bad intentions, and that every citizen of the world has in mind that genocide is something that is possible, that it is not just an ugly story, but that it is a reality that happened to Armenians 100 years ago, which was happening in the Balkans 15 years ago. It is our moral and political obligation to say our word about it, which is to vote for this resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12514	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 11 against – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda of the session be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12515	Let me tell you right now, Mr. Milicevic, that I have no intention of talking about missing babies while the MPs are playing music here. Now this second there's a silence in the O.R., and by this moment there's someone very loud... I ask the messengers who listen to music to put on headphones, I don't know if they know it exists, so let them have fun if they don't care what they're talking about. I'm asking you for a third year in a row to put only one change in the Criminal Code, which is that crimes that don't go out of date include the crime of stealing babies. Those of you who were interested, and I hope that the heads of Parliament's groups sent you a letter that we received from the Association of Parents and Cousins of Missing Babies, could read the letter we received from them, and in that letter they asked the MPs not to adopt the bill prepared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because they claim that by adopting that law, any possibility would have disappeared that they would ever discover what happened to their children. In addition to being dissatisfied with the way the government prepared the bill and the way the investigation itself was made, one of the basic things they complain about is that the law stipulates that the crime of stealing babies is outdated. They feel there is no need for it to stand out in relation to the kidnapping crime. They believe that what actually happened to their children in foster homes from which the kidnapping was missing and that, as in the case of the abduction, the investigation here should run until a person is found or missing, in their case, their child, or until the body of that child is found and where the child is buried and what was his final destiny. I don't think this is the kind of thing we need to talk about. I don't think this is the kind of thing we're supposed to argue about. I don't think this is the kind of thing that you fellow dear fellows should be waiting for bells to vote on, because this isn't worth anything to the state or citizens, and many will give us a chance that you wouldn't normally have, because you believe in many cases, until they get it back, until they realize that something was wrong, until they realize that hospitals don't have the right to not give them the child's body and that they're covering up what happened, it's already too late. Please, fifty-fifty times, vote for this, it doesn't cost us anything, and it's gonna mean a lot to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12516	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12517	Thank you, Vice President. It is clear to all of us that our higher education may be a key reason why our education system is not good. Because high school institutions are educated by all those who teach in both primary schools and secondary schools tomorrow, and very often their education for the future job of teachers seems so that they have no day of education when it comes to pedagogical psychology, pedagogy, or anything they need to do tomorrow to do the job of teachers. Of course, this is only part of what is a problem in our higher education, it is inefficient, it is outdated and is still guided by the "ex-catedra" system, just like primary and secondary school education. People who deal with education think it's one of the basic problems in our higher education system. Accordingly, our colleges do not stand well on Europeans or world-class lists, with a few bright exceptions. Our students are getting out of those colleges so they haven't learned anything from what they've been trained for. We've got lawyers finishing law school who didn't even see the contract, and they don't know how to put it together. We have teachers of Serbian language, for example, who from teaching classes from classes that all children have from first grade to fourth grade high school, each day, have only a few months of practice and two, or three months of training from some teaching method. We have a flood of private colleges, which are unfair competition to state universities, which students and students only enroll for reasons that are simpler and easier to complete and that students who fail to meet basic criteria, even when entering the university, and not to mention that we have no control at all on our way out of the university. We don't really know what the knowledge that the students brought from college is. Until we correct what is a problem in higher education, we cannot correct the problem at other levels of education. We have a strategy for developing education in Serbia by 2020, in which everything is written, how these problems can be solved. We just need to adopt a law that will make it possible and that will put into the law what people are, who are involved in education predicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12518	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12519	The textbooks are, as a basic teaching tool, another of the bad elements in our education system, and we in DS believe deeply, the way the education system looks to us is the way that tomorrow will look to us state, and what we now have the opportunity to see, it's absolutely not satisfactory. Of course, that a good teacher can bypass what is bad in the textbook, that we can overcome the fact that textbooks are outdated, out of date, very often incorrect, and students are uninteresting, overpriced, champions too heavy, teachers unnecessary, but the question is how motivated our teachers are to get into a situation that no one else in this country has done their job and are expected to do what was the job of the Ministry. When we adopted the Law on textbooks, it was as if the basic thing was to limit the number of pages in textbooks, as if a limited number of pages in textbooks would solve all the problems that teachers, children and their parents face. Well, textbooks aren't too big because publishers like textbooks to be extensive, but textbooks are too extensive because our teaching plans and programs are bad. Because the Ministry has not reformed the curricula and programmes. What did the publishers do? They simply deleted the images, reduced the font, reduced the margins, and thus resolved the obligation imposed on them, that the textbooks have a certain maximum number of sides. Not the problem of our textbooks in the number of pages, the problem of our textbooks is in their content, and the content is consistent with what it says in the documents brought by the Ministry. The problem with our textbooks is for parents at their price, which is very often so that they can't even pay in the best scenarios. The problem with our children's textbooks is that they are uninteresting, unadjusted by their age. And the problem with our textbooks is that they're very often incorrect, and that's because none of the institutions in that whole set of institutions that need to check them do their job, but they're all kind of looking at how to settle and how to get some profit. There are again, in old custom, teachers turned out to be the blackest and the worst, because to whom it's easiest to put it, the easiest thing on them, but I think we have room to fix it, only you, unfortunately, don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12520	Thank you, colleagues. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for eight, and there is no one who has ever voted 143 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda of the sitting be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12521	Thank you, Vice President. Maybe it's familiar to colleagues, I don't think it is, so that's why they don't support this proposal. I propose that in the Agricultural Land Act, in that area dealing with the right of municipalities, a certain investor or business partner, by choice and personal choice, should be assigned in each municipality of a third of the agricultural land owned by a state, to a certain investor or business partner, in their own choice and in their own choice, to include in that member, however, certain criteria. So that it may not be true that the president of the municipality can give whoever he wants a third of the best agricultural land in his municipality, but rather a little agreement on who these people can be, who will get the best agricultural land, to see under what conditions, whether they have any obligations, whether there is any public competition, whether there is a competition, whether they have to report, whether they have to meet certain criteria. Because it is absolutely, and everything else in the country that those who are in power choose those who are politically close to them and those they will declare to investors. We don't even have proof in the law as it says, that it will be any kind of investor and then, by choice, give them a third of the best agricultural land in every local self-government in Serbia, for a period that lasts so long as generations in families in our farmers are left without a basic existence and are forced to work as peers on agricultural land that you have made available and to use your business partners, I don't know what else I would call it because the law is absolutely nothing about that these people really need to be investors and really invest in that country. I've said several times already, in Vojvodina more than ten thousand families live exclusively from the fact that they farmed land in state property. I suppose your business partners won't take farm land that's of poor quality, but they'll probably take the best agricultural land in every municipality since you can choose them as much as you want, and they can choose farm land as they want. These people who live today exclusively from the processing of state agricultural land will leave either unprocessable agricultural land or agricultural land of poor quality. Please don't do this. I don't mind if some business people get you agricultural land, but at least let some criteria exist, not sharing how you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12522	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's national emissary, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12523	Thank you, Vice President. As I said, we have a strategy to develop education by 2020. The strategy was made by all people in Serbia who are involved in education, who write about education, who are thinking about education, who are considering such things, and this strategy was adopted by the first government made by SNS and SPS. So, that strategy was adopted by the same majority that is now in power, the same majority that has so far chosen four ministers of education, none of which showed any intention to apply the things defined by that strategy, and it defined absolutely everything we need to do in our education system to make it look like the education system of a modern state in the 21st century. Instead, we have Minister Sarčević today who, visiting Triestenik, is again talking about the fascination of Aleksandr Vukic, about dual education, against whom absolutely all the people who participated in the writing of this strategy, against whom all the people involved in education in this country, who know anything about education and who all the people who know that education strategy can't be made based on what Vukic was in Germany and saw that he has a dual education there, so he liked it very much, so we're going to apply it now. That's not how education works. In doing so, Sarcevic also talks about how Triestenik is very suitable for dual education because there is a "Petolet" in which 900 people currently work with a tendency to reduce. I ask you what kind of black dual education we can plan for, what kind of black economy, and also the minister himself, realizing that we are not in a situation of Germany that knows exactly how long it will take for a job in 20 years, so it can have dual education, says that we will have to simulate a little because our students are educated for jobs that are just about to be created and just to come. You know what, let him simulate a little with his children education, and with the education system of the Republic of Serbia he has no right to do so. Mr. Milicevic, please ring now so the MPs know that they should vote for this bill because it is very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12524	Thank you, colleagues. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for nine, and there is no one who has voted 141 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Does the MP Gordana Comic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12525	Thank you. On 13 March 2015, at 19.15 hours, former Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic issued an oral order and thus violated co-ordination, as found in the report. At 8:15 p.m., a helicopter took off with pilot Omer Mezic and about 23pm of that evening, a helicopter crashed near the airport of "Nikola Tesla", bringing death to seven in a helicopter. There were reports, there was an investigation. Generals Bandic and Zivak received a disciplinary application because they are said to have disobeyed the system of coordination. They could have chosen whether they would be punished by Minister Gasic for refusing oral co-ordination or for punishing the rule of law six hours later, as generals do not have the right to protect the rule of law, such as the protection of seven dead in a helicopter. Through all the reports, through the work of all the committees, two questions were left without an answer and when, as in a song we all know from primary schools, that our graves will also fight those lies, we will find the answer to the question of who gave the information to Minister Gasic that it was necessary to order a rescue mission about the baby Ademovic, how did he find out who informed him, who provided him the information? There is no such thing in any report, nor is there in any information relating to this terrible tragedy in which, to make matters worse, after the tragedy, the defamation of the wicked, the disgraced and the pilot Omer Mehic and the crew members. The second question that was left unanswered is who changed the flight when the helicopter had already flown to Nikola Tesla Airport, or Belgrade, who changed the flight and in what way and why has information about private communication in the helicopter cabin? I repeat, the ingratitude that the highest officials have instigated Omer Mezic, mocking the rule of law, mocking the prosecution, lying to us that the prosecution won't launch an investigation, embarrassing the deputy who left the prosecutor's career and went to the notaries, embarrassing Generals Zivik and Bandic with all the tragedies that we lost seven people, you won't stop all the cover-up from the truth when he finds out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12526	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12527	Dear Chairman, we have been trying to convince the parliamentary majority for almost two hours to put very high-quality drafts of the law on the agenda of the session we have begun, possibly the last regular session in 2016, otherwise shamefully called yesterday, just eight minutes before the deadline, with the desire to avoid this part of the session that MPs are making proposals to supplement the agenda and their ideas for laws. Of these 27 points that the ruling majority intends to adopt and bring together in a single debate, there is only one law that brings good to the citizens of Serbia. They put everything there, both short and tail, which can and cannot, in a desire to hide their ignorance, that they can't lead Serbia and that citizens live harder every year. One of the laws that I will propose to put on the agenda today, but unfortunately in advance convinced that I will not get the support of the ruling majority because the famous bell will not come out, is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of local self-government. In fact, somewhere in October, the government proposed, and the assembly majority passed amendments to this law that the incomes of local self-government from income tax are reduced from 80% to 76%. In this debate, we failed to hear what the government's intention was, or what with the five billion dinars, how much it was projected to be in the Republic of Serbia's budget on this basis, and it will not be found in the cities and municipalities' budgets, which is the government's intention to spend that money. Since the only argument was that local self-governments agreed with this reduction, and they agreed by first being threatened to be taken away from them twice as much, and then the happy ones accepted this withdrawal of only five billion, we propose to return this rate, but together with the Income Tax Act, which reduces this tax rate from 10% to 9%, in order to move towards the process of discharging the economy and enabling those who create additional value in Serbia to operate more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12528	Thank you, colleague Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12529	Thank you. So the income tax, the change we propose, is to change this tax rate and reduce it from 10% to 9%. In fact, the burden on gross earnings in Serbia is one of the largest in the world and certainly the largest in the region and is an obstacle to new investments in Serbia as is the obstacle to an effective fight against the gray economy. That the results in the fight against the grey economy have not been confirmed and the IMF mission chief for Serbia, who said that, according to the latest data, the grey economy in Serbia is growing, rather than shrinking. Of course, it grows because the government adopts such laws and creates such a policy and such an economic environment that pleases the growth of the gray economy. How many workers are ready today to agree with their employer that instead of 70%, how much goes from gross earnings, or that 70% of the net earnings goes to the state, how many workers today are willing to have a deal with their employer to pay minimum earnings, and the rest of the earnings is paid by hand? Hundreds and hundreds of thousands of workers today in Serbia are receiving their salary, because this is a huge burden, and because the state is inefficient and inequitable intransparently spending money from the budget, because the state does not guarantee you that part, that pension that you should receive because you allocate a certain percentage of your salary every month from your income, it guarantees you a certain pension, this country does not guarantee you that pension. This country says you'll get as much pension as we do. And that's why the gray economy is growing. What we propose is to change, send a message that economic policy will change by reducing the rate in this case the income tax of citizens and later the pension rate – social security. These measures would lead to real progress in the economy, real results in the fight against the gray economy, real recovery of the Serbian economy and growth based on investment and economic growth, on something that does not depend on world trends, which is currently the only reason for the upcoming line of the Serbian economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12530	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Excise Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12531	Thank you. We suggested another month ago in the procedure of supplementing the Excise Act, with the idea of introducing excise on sweetened drinks, sweetened juices and sweetened water. The reason for this was seen in the appeal of the World Health Organization, which declared the epidemic of obesity and called on all governments in the world to react and, as one measure, proposed the introduction of taxes or excise duties on sweetened drinks which are one of the causes of increased obesity primarily in children. I found it interesting when there was a budget debate that the finance minister said he personally had nothing to do with such a proposal, but that there are interested groups that are intruding. Here, we have a proposal from the Government to amend and supplement the Excise Act, but unfortunately, there is no proposal to introduce this excise. The excise duty exists in over 16 countries. In Hungary, there has been since 2011, and it has had the effect of reducing the consumption of sweetened juices by 20%, with the same increase in production, i.e. the use of natural juices. Such measures exist in Norway, have existed in Mexico since 2013, Ireland has voted on such measures since 2018. Data related to the number of obesity in Serbia are alarming, 21% of Serbia's population is obesity, and 35% is in pre-random condition. In children, the obesity rate has increased in the last 10 years from 2.6% to 4.9%. This certainly requires a certain policy and measures of the government in one normal country, and since unfortunately Serbia in the last five years with the government of Aleksandr Vukic cannot qualify as normal, then the government's only concern is to amend and supplement the Excise Act that it proposes to complete the budget, rather than, in this way, five billion dinars, as we propose, which would enter the budget, be used for a healthy meal and education on healthy young people's diet, the government is only concerned that it will fill the budget that will save Petrochemy and other losers who have been working for years with losses just because they are run by incompetent...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12532	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in a part of the town known as Savala, 25 April 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12533	Thank you. We submitted this proposal on June 6th of this year. So it's been more than six months, and this must be the sixth or seventh time we put this proposal on the table to add to the agenda. Of course, every time the answer was negative. It is clear that it is for the simple reason behind the collapse in Savamalaj on election night 24 April this year, since the prime minister himself named the city's top as responsible for the collapse on June 8th. The members, or officials of the city's top authorities, are senior SNS officials. It is clear that the SNS is the one standing and it is perfectly natural that SNS MPs in the Serbian parliament do not want to vote on the formation of the polling committee, as well as the Government through influence on police work and on the work of the prosecution do not want to get an answer to these questions in the system's institutions, because that pressure is not available, then the handling prosecutor would certainly listen to citizen Alexander Vukic as a citizen, who has information on the crime he has committed in front of the million Serbian citizens' auditorium, saying that the collapse in Savamaloj is the responsibility of the city's top authority. He previously described these people as complete idiots. That's why I often say that this demolition is responsible for complete idiots from the top of the city, but apparently that round of complete idiots doesn't end up just at the top of the city government, but such complete idiots exist in the prosecution, in the police, because, behold, the newly appointed police director said that there was a failure to police work on the night of May 24th on May 25th, the same man who was in that night was v.d. Director of Police. Now that he's wiped out his V.D., it looks like he's got some sense or courage, I don't know what, so he's talking about failures. Now I don't know who's who and whose responsibility is there? Do his like V.D. Police director of the time, or Belgrade police director, or Belgrade municipal police?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12534	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12535	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. This is one law whose announcement also marks the announcement of elections. Last time, two years ago, the task force was formed, according to the minister, to draft a law on financial support for families with children who allegedly worked hard on the bill, since the existing law has not been amended since 2009. And worked and worked, but then, suddenly, nothing announced or caused, the extraordinary parliamentary elections in 2016 were called, and this law could not come on the agenda. That's why, almost immediately, after being re-elected in September, the minister formed a new task force, and I guess it is now working. If we read, which was interesting to me in this short time, to read, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, proposed by the Government, there we see the abolition of the VAT refund measure for purchased food and baby equipment, which is related to the adoption of the Financial Support Act for families with children. It is very interesting that we have received this law on amendments to the VAT Act, but not the law sent by the Government on financial support for the family with children. Since we have announcements of new parliamentary elections, which we welcome, because they are an opportunity to get rid of the incompetent power of Alexander Vukic, you have no proposal and I urge you to vote for this bill. In her opinion, which she put on our bill, the government has not disputed any of the measures we have proposed. She cited the fate of the government's proposal for a law on financial support for the family with children, but she did not dispute any of our measures and announced a new law. You're announcing it, but parallel to the election. I'm afraid if we don't discuss it by the end of this fall session in 2006, we won't be able to arrive again before the early parliamentary elections and that this law will again sit in some drawer and wait for the second half of next year. The situation of people with children in Serbia is extremely difficult today, 30% of children are at risk of poverty, and the state needs action immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12536	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments to the Law on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12537	Thank you. We have proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Culture because we believe that the legal solution adopted in February of this year, at the end of the previous assembly, is bad in two parts. The first is that artistic photography is not as an activity in the field of culture, but the government considers it to be part of a law that speaks of visual art, although such practice is not in European countries and does not allow full protection and the right to protect the artistic work of artistic photography. The second fundamental change is related to the achievement of national cultural fees for those cultural workers who receive the highest international recognitions. In fact, the government came first with a bill in the Assembly in which these national recognitions are completely abolished, then reacted to public pressure by adopting amendments to allow for national recognitions for those responsible cultural workers, but based on a government regulation. So, entirely arbitraryly, based on a government decision that is not transparent, based on criteria that are not available to the public and which are not within the law that is much more difficult to change, although obviously this is not the case, because on this agenda we have six laws that came to the Assembly two days ago, and apparently this ruling majority thinks that it can change everything without any consultation or public knowledge of the intentions in which it changes. What we ask by amending this law is that, as in the case of top athletes, they are automatically, by the letter of the law, in the case of obtaining the highest international recognitions, by automatedism, assigned in the same way as in the case of athletes, national pensions. We believe that the importance of culture, at the very least, is the same as the importance of sport, especially the interesting statement made by European Council President Donald Tusk, who, supporting protests in Poland, said that without culture and the media, every democracy becomes a dictatorship, and that's what happens here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12538	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Are you in a hurry? I'll take it easy. There's a lot of things in the bar. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12539	This is not the bill proposed by the government. Let MPs pay attention, so as not to think that this, as it is also called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, is proposed by the government. She proposed and sent it to the Assembly on December 19th, and today we are discussing it on December 22nd. I ask – how many MPs know what is written in this proposal for government law? Why does the government propose amendments to the law, when the law was passed in February of this year, ahead of the elections, to satisfy the IMF mission, and the deadline for the implementation of this law is 1 January 2017? The government proposed its amendments because it was unable to do what it had committed in 10 months that it would do and create conditions for its application from 1 January 2017. The law adopted at the time was bad, it reduced employees' rights in the public sector, and above all it is bad because it has made a key failure, by not including public sector public enterprises, whose founder of the Republic, AP or local self-government, has not included the National Bank of Serbia, public media service and numerous other institutions. Of course, the government is now saying, instead of saying, we weren't able to do what we had to do, it's now extending deadlines for the application of this law. The government shows all its incompetence and haughtiness with such an approach. Only this law reduces employees' rights in the public sector. We've heard here a story that it's reportedly reduced the number of public sector employees by 55,000. Of course, that figure is not true, the real number is 27,000, which is, above all, the result of the natural spillout, but nothing has been done to make public sector and public administration, as the law defines, more efficient and beneficial citizens of Serbia. They were leaving on the contrary, the most capable people who had found a place in the private sector, and they were less capable because of the government's absolute passivity and thus made the public sector bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12540	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no proposal has been adopted. National MP Marko Djurisic proposed the Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax as an addition to the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12541	Thank you, Your Honor. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which I have proposed, along with my colleagues from the SDS parliamentary group, makes the National Movement of Serbia different from the draft law amending and supplementing the VAT law proposed by the government. Of course, the government does not take care of citizens, their needs, their problems through its changes and additions, but only takes care of the budget, which is set as a top standard and top quality in every political work. Instead of being a criterion for the achievement of certain policies, all policies in Serbia have been reduced to budget service and to the ironing of revenue and expenditure. As a result, we have the economic activity in Serbia, that the results of the fight against the gray economy are gone, we have a tax administration that is inefficient and that after two years of delay in making tax solutions for businesses that receive a flat tax solution, sends tax solutions in a larger amount, thus putting a lock on the lock of numerous people who try to choose each day, to earn their bread fairly, and force them into the gray zone. You will see the defeating results of such a policy next year, the government's policy in the year that was declared a year of fighting for small businesses. Small businesses will disappear in Serbia. Our proposal to amend and supplement VAT is that baby food is taxed at a lower tax rate, instead of a general tax rate of 20% by a tax rate of 10%. The government did not accept this solution, but here I see in its proposal the solution to the VAT refund for purchased food and equipment for babies, food and equipment that is most expensive in Serbia compared to countries in the region, and which because of this situation have young couples, married couples, unfortunately no longer young, but also older ones, who decide to start a family only more problems. The government doesn't have an ally in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12542	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been adopted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – draft law on the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12543	I think every time I get to this law I say that the proposed agenda by the government, or most, is a real example of why it is necessary to pass a law like this, and always with the words that worse than that can't. Every time the ruling majority deny me. That's how it is this time. Twenty-seven points, all of which were placed in the procedure by emergency procedure, without any explanation of why it was done so. In addition to the need for the Assembly to finish its work as soon as possible, it is likely that next Thursday would not be the prime minister at this time to answer the questions of the MPs, because he is obviously most afraid of it in the world. This bill should make it impossible for every majority, this one, and the next one, quite certainly different from the one that will be after the next parliamentary elections, to abuse the unclear provision of the Rules of Procedure which speaks of the possibility of the laws being put into practice by emergency procedure, but asking for the urgent procedure to be explained. The ruling majority is now so boastful that it doesn't even state that sentence why an emergency procedure is needed. I have read the proposal, several agenda points for this session, where no single word is mentioned, which is why in Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly should be classified in this item of the agenda as an emergency procedure. It takes a law like this to keep this from happening. In normal countries, this legal and constitutional arrangement that we have now would be enough, but for this parliamentary majority, it is obviously not enough. Her desire to put everything under her control is seen from every point of the agenda. In institutions where they propose their party staff, the Constitutional Court elected, which has been elected by the councils selected from the SNS list and all other examples speak of the need to have such a strange law and a strange name in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The essence of the law is that the adoption of acts by emergency procedure in the Serbian parliament is not a practice, not a rule, but an exception. Of course, I know that when the vote comes after my speech, there will be no bell, and this proposal will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12544	We'll see. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been adopted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12545	More than a year and a half since it was adopted in the Assembly of the Law on the Temporary Regulation of Pensions Payments, the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia is proposing an amendment, or a law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. This Law had been changed at the previous session, so that the practical temporaryity found in one member of the law has now become permanent, sustainable. I think that the citizens of Serbia should know, and we will repeat that every time we have the opportunity to talk about putting this law on the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia, that the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions are paid is permanent. The government's president, Aleksandar Vucic and his finance minister Dusan Vujovic, also ordered this. If this law were not to last, there is obviously no majority of support in this Serbian Parliament and therefore change. There is a need for change in the election, and that is why we look forward to these elections. I'm sure those 700,000 people whose pensions were reduced by 20% or 25%, not 5.8%, as the Prime Minister told them shamelessly here in parliament, that they would certainly not support such a policy. They have a wide choice on the political scene from left to right and other parliamentary groups have a similar proposal for our parliamentary group, because it is a painful point for 700,000 people who have been completely unjustly and undeservedly robbed, I can say freely, from Alexander Vukic and his Hajduk government, by being taken away from them...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12546	No offense, really... Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12547	I beg you, if you want to take care of the MPs who stand and disturb me while I speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12548	Don't beg me, you know where to pray, just pay attention to your dictionary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12549	... And don't bother me, let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12550	I'll distract you whenever you're rude, rude and...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12551	... It's what the Serb people say about the kidnappers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12552	That's right, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12553	... what someone's got, and what they've acquired honestly. Stop interrupting me while I'm talking and let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12554	I'll interrupt, it's no problem, you'll interrupt me, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12555	Our bill implies returning pension payments to the level that was prior to this reduction, as paying the difference for which payments are reduced over the next six months through pension payments. Of course, one such law will only be able to pass in the congregation once the ruling majority is changed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12556	Time. I'm putting this item to a vote. (Marko Djurisic, from the site: You took 20 seconds away from me. You stole 12 years from me. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12557	I don't know in those 12 difficult years, how many years have you been in the government that did this since you were in various parties in that government?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12558	Replications are not allowed. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: That's right. No, and don't rephrase it to me. ) Do you want to talk about the bill or not? Don't hold back because of your frustrations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12559	I am not holding anyone back, you are keeping this country and all the citizens of Serbia by taking away their future, as you have taken away from them for more than 15 years. The Law on Public Media Service is a law that should allow citizens of Serbia to free themselves from paying a tax on a number of grounds, i.e. to allow a tax on public media services to be paid only once per natural, or legal person. When the government changed a year ago, this law bound again the payment of a fee for a public media payment service with an electricity bill, of course this time tying it differently to that electricity bill, so that if you don't want to pay, you don't have that option. So then I see a very new State Secretary for Information at the Ministry of Culture and Informing boasts that TV subscription is now charged 85%, completely not understanding that there is no single way for you to pay an electricity bill without paying a fee for public media service, which is related to every electric number in Serbia, regardless of whether it was an electric number for the apartment, house or some auxiliary facility, garage or common room. The government has now delivered to us in this shameful agenda for a session to begin today, its amendments to the public media service law...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12560	Great, let's just add up with your dots.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12561	Just don't bother me. You'll have plenty of time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12562	I will. But I must direct you, for you will honor your Rules of Procedure, I promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12563	... You can come down and answer me in part of the session when it's time for you to try to explain at least one of these 27 points of the agenda in 20 minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12564	But that doesn't allow you to do it in the context of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12565	... if you want to put it on the agenda. So, the government has no intention of making it easier for citizens, on the contrary, to extend for another year the validity of the solutions that should be valid by the end of this year, as it does in at least 10 other legislative proposals that are on the agenda, hiding its inability to do anything that is good for the citizens of Serbia. Only with the intention of loading them with new obligations and new charges...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12566	Thank you very much. We haven't heard anything about the bill, but I'll put it to a vote... (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Can you give me back the time you took from me? I don't even know what you're talking about. I can't hear you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I can explain it louder.) ) Come here a little while, since you're threatening to explain a little louder. Come over and explain it to me. It's not a problem. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "May I?" Don't punish me? Come forward, of course. I don't care. I can expect anything from you. I can expect a lot of things from you, and to interpret that you'll explain a little louder, to interpret the public. I'll hold back. But that you scared me, you didn't. No matter what it means to you, what you said. So let us conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12567	Dear People's MPs, I insist we make amendments to the Law on selecting Members of the People. Why am I doing this? I'm working because I think we should prevent an election theft being prepared by the SNS in the next presidential election. Anyone who won't support us changing the law that we've all witnessed is wrong, because we watched the circus in a direct TV broadcast when the results of the previous parliamentary elections were determined. The Republic Election Commission, which has the majority of SNS, has allowed itself to choose which sacks to count, which they won't, to count where the SNS went badly, to correct its result, and to ignore the fact that we found zero votes for SDS in the sacks, though, it says in the record, although there are 60 votes in the bag for SDS. It is the polling post in which our MP Goran Bogdanovic voted. It's not corrected. In order for this to not happen, we propose amending the law, to determine the results based on the minutes, not that the government chooses and determines who will have an election result. We've all witnessed how politically unequal this game is. With this law, we have proposed that all have time on TV in terms of their strength in parliament, that the time be paid from the budget, from that part of the budget that normally goes towards financing elections, not that political parties are humiliated in front of tycoons, asking for money and spending tens of millions of euros on unnecessary videos and overpriced campaigns. All that can be solved by this law, except the SNS won't do it, and they won't because they want to re-election in the next election. The opposition proposed, after last elections, that the polling committee be educated, to examine what happened when the results of the previous parliamentary elections were determined, but the Serbian Progressive Party did not allow it. She did not allow it because the survey would determine how many Serbian citizens' votes were stolen in the previous elections. Gentlemen, you're afraid of a fair election game.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12568	Thank you very much. I'll put you to a vote, whatever you say. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point -- a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you all come from different parts of Serbia and you know very well how hard it is for citizens to pay property taxes. The property tax in certain parts of Serbia has increased to 300% since 2013. Citizens can't pay for that. You have your representatives in local self-government, so you know how many of them are hooking up, begging and crying in line in front of the tax administration's counter, explaining that they can't pay the tax you imposed on them. I have proposed this law that property tax is not paid up to 25 square feet per member of the family household, because under the Constitution everyone has the right to live in his apartment. It's not a luxury that a four-member family lives in an apartment of 70 or 80 square feet. People have to live somewhere. You're trying to get those who don't have the money to pay taxes to get them to live somewhere else where that tax is cheaper. Just who are they gonna sell these apartments and houses to? You're laughing. You laugh because you have money, and you don't laugh at a people who have nothing to eat. You should be ashamed to laugh at the people. People don't have the money to pay taxes. What is the problem with the Serbian Progressive Party to protect people from living in their property? The other thing that's proposed by this law is that taxes can't increase every year as some government wants. You see, since you don't have money in your budget, and there's no money in your budget because your business isn't working, then it's the easiest thing to do to raise your property tax, hit every citizen in this country's pocket, get an increase in every house, introduce electricity excise, raise electricity, cut wages, and that way you charge the budget. Ludi, that's not the way to fill the budget. The citizens of this country must know what awaits them. Tax policy needs to be predictable. We have proposed this law that no more than 7% can raise property tax annually. Let us know what awaits us, not to raise us 300 percent in one year of taxes. The behaviour you conduct in this government is irresponsible to the citizens and has impoverished the citizens. Turn around and see how people live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12570	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12571	Dear fellow Serbian Progressive Party MPs, the adoption of this law and the debate on it really doesn't hurt, and it will help all of you. You have passed the Law on General Administrative Procedure, it has entered into force this year and this law aims to make citizens faster, in a more efficient and cheaper administrative procedure, exercise their rights. Citizens are trying to get different documents, get different permits in local self-government, and they want to do it as quickly as possible. Why are you stopping them from doing that? You've passed one law in which you've set incorrect deadlines. You have determined that one authority should respond to another body as soon as possible, only you do not know which is the shortest possible time limit. And today you have a situation where if a citizen submits a request, as counterpart Orlic would say, in analogue form, which means on paper, written, in analogue form, that the authority issuing the document to him in digital form requires a document from another body. But it takes longer in digital form than a colleague orlic will take that paper from another organ by analog means, so he can bring it himself and hand it over analoguely. So, the suggestion is that we don't have the exact deadlines in the law. It's not as short as possible, but it's known - and no later than 24 hours, because it's a document that he can deliver to another body on one button. A 15-day deadline for the adoption of a document in analogue form is unnecessary. Well, I guess within eight days one authority can deliver the document to another authority. Serbia is not such a big country that the letter travels for 15 days. So, gentlemen, let's make it easier for the citizens to work and make the administration more efficient, to be better and that we can exercise our rights the way everyone has the right to achieve in a civilized world.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12572	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no votes for – eight against – three abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been talking for several months about the need to prevent corruption in political parties. The Serbian Progressive Party does not allow this parliament to discuss mechanisms to prevent corruption in political parties. Do you really think that citizens don't see that there's corruption in this country, that citizens don't see that there's corruption in political parties and that this corruption actually starts from political parties that are in power? Everybody sees it and everybody feels it. Do not engage in a false fight against corruption that did not result in any judicial verdict in this country, and you came to power in 2012. There are mechanisms to prevent corruption. There are integrity plans and this Assembly has passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which states that all state authorities have to come up with a integrity plan, but you won't apply it to yourself. State authorities should bring in, and political parties should not bring in. We propose this law that any political party receiving money from the Republic of Serbia's budget for regular financing must adopt a integrity plan that will set up its own mechanisms to avoid corruption, to behave in political parties in accordance with the law, in accordance with the statutes of the parties, in accordance with the principle of justice, in accordance with the principle of ethics. I think that's the principle for you and that's why it would be good for you to introduce an integrity plan. You've all learned to deal with politics in your political parties, and as you've learned in political parties, so do you work in state authorities. But the problem is that if you learn about corruption in a political party, then you transfer that corruption to state authorities, and the citizens get hurt from it. Don't distract us with a false fight against corruption anymore. Let us discuss models and anti-corruption mechanisms that are effective and that exist in the world. There's nothing new to come up with that's already been invented in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12574	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote, for the vote is eight, against - two, abstention - no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint principled single search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Sector Payments of Employees, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Temporary Regulation on the Payment of Taxes for Public Media Services, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Market of Capitals, Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and supplementing the Act on the Law on the Law on the Taking of Action of the Civil Society, Proposal for an Amendment of the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for amendments to the Law on the Laws of the Civil Rights of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Added Value, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Public, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Public, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Tax and the Law on the Law on the Law on Tax on Tax and the Law on Tax, on Tax and the Law on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax and on Tax on Tax on Tax and the Law on Tax on Tax on Tax, on Tax, on Tax on Tax on Tax, on Tax and the Law on Tax on Tax on Tax on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on Tax Law on Tax Law on Tax Law on Tax, on the Law on Tax, on the Law on Tax, on Tax, on the Law on the Law on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on the Laws of the Law on Tax Act, on Tax Act, on Tax, on Tax, on Tax, on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The Expropriation Act (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 53/95, 23/01-SUS, 20/09/55/13-US), Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48. The law on enforcement and security (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 106/15), Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik, Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia, Proposal for a decision to elect two members of the Republic Committee for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Selection of a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council, from a list of candidates submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the selection of members of the Board of Regulators' Body for Electronic Media from the list of candidates who have been nominated, the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, from the list of candidates submitted by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want a word? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, for 133, against – eight, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda, in general. I conclude the vote, for 133, against – seven, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that all members of the Government are present at this session. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12575	Thank you. I see you've abolished the possibility of indicating a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then I would suggest, in accordance with Article 97, that we double the time to discuss 27 points of the agenda. I was looking at the clock, four and a half minutes you were supposed to read all 27 points of the agenda. So, four and a half minutes just the names of the dots. It is not surprising that the entire government was called for for this debate and more ministers came, as it comes from seven, eight departments of the bill that could not be found in a united debate. Along with proposals from MPs, with proposals from the Assembly committees, with appointments but also new loans, borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12576	Ambassador, no matter what you say I've lifted anything, I have to tell you, about your motion without a search, so no search, you suggested it, and at the right time. So I didn't take anything from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12577	No, you took away my right to point out that some points today could not be found on the agenda at all because they did not comply with the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to have to spend my time authorized to show you how the agenda points couldn't have been found in a congregation debate because they don't meet their business conditions. Because we don't have all the documents we need to work and adopt all the points. But you didn't give me the right, and now I'm proposing...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12578	It's all right, I know you like to fight terribly, it's in your nature, but I have a session to run. That's right, MP, you suggested we double the time, and that's not the debate, so I have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12579	There's no argument, but you're arguing and taking away my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12580	That's right, there's no discussion, it says in the Rules of Procedure. Take it easy, you're just a second term, you'll learn. But don't abuse the pay phones and say that you were denied first when it wasn't your turn before the adoption of the agenda to ask to double the time. What's to double the time if nothing's adopted? It really has to be a very bad man to keep saying that someone doesn't give you something. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: We have called earlier, but you have not given me your word.) I can't hear you, you have to get a word, I'm a little old and I can't hear you, really. I put this proposal to the vote by Ambassador Mark Djurisic. I conclude the vote, 11 MPs voted for this proposal, against this proposal were four MPs, abstentioned was no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Article 170(1), Article 192(3), Article 195, Article 202 and Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principled and uniform search on: Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System of Employees; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Market of Capitals; Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Act on the Protection of the Bank; Proposal for an Amendment of the Act on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for an Amendment of the Act on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for amendments to the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for amendments to the Act on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic; on the Republic of Serbia; on the Republic of the The Expropriation Act (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 53/95, 23/01-SUS, 20/09/55/13-US); Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 48. Law on enforcement and security (the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia), No. 106/15; Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Tristenik; Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the National Bank of Serbia Board; Proposal for a decision to elect two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures; Selection of a member of the Commission's Board for the Protection of Competition from the list of candidates submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy; Selection of members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for the Electronic Media, from the list of candidates who have been nominated; Selection of a member of the Committee for the Combat of Corruption from the list of candidates submitted by the Committee for Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and a proposal for amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does one of the representatives of the government's proposings want a word and then a representative of the proposings from the MPs? Yeah. ) The word wants Minister Ana Brnabic. We'll listen to their presentations, and then we'll continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock with your discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12581	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to present in principle the draft laws that we, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, propose to consider and adopt in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is important, at the beginning, to point out that most of the proposed laws are in fact amending and supplementing the laws and amendments that have been proposed can in principle be classified into four groups, in fact for four reasons why changes and additions of these laws are being made and why in some cases new legal solutions are being proposed. The first and basic reason, and it seems to me, that is why the current laws in the Republic of Serbia are in line with EU legislation and in fact everything we need to do in Serbia's pre-accession process to the European Union and what is certainly one of the top priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So the things that we are proposing here and that we are harmonising are the result of our talks with our colleagues from the EU and are the result of the talks on opening a Benchmarking Analysis, individual chapters currently being run by all ministries within the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason for changes and additions is the harmonisation of laws, in fact the harmonisation of laws with the legal framework and other laws in the Republic of Serbia. In the past, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has passed a series of important laws, and what is needed today is for other laws to comply with these other laws. Such a good example is the draft law amending and supplementing the customs law, which, in addition to being in line with EU legislation and regulations and WTO rules, is also in line with a series of our laws, which is the Law on the Protection of Personality Data, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Violations, the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Means. So we have a whole group of laws that we only agree with already adopted laws, laws that have already passed the adoption procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now we're bringing these laws into contact with them. The third reason why we propose amendments and additions to the law and sometimes new laws is actually simply to move deadlines for law enforcement and there are even three. So these laws don't change anything. The deadlines are only delayed and, in principle, deadlines for the implementation of the law are delayed for one year, until June of the month, i.e. by the end of 2017, with full application of January 01, 2018 and nothing else in those laws is changed. The fourth reason is the adoption of one group of laws, the implementation of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with European Court of Human Rights decisions, and these laws primarily concern foreign savings. This is unpaid foreign savings from banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. There are valid European Court of Human Rights rulings with which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly not happy, but which the Republic of Serbia must fulfil, on the one hand, because of its integrity and its image, and on the other hand, because failure to fulfil these obligations can further lead to a requirement to compensate for immaterial damage, so if these laws are not adopted by an urgent procedure, then we can actually suffer additional damages to the Republic of Serbia's budget between 30m and 40m euros, and that is what needs to be avoided. So in these four groups of reasons everything can be counted, the reasons why the amendments to these laws are proposed. What I also think is particularly important to mention, which is to propose the adoption of brand new laws, and that seems to me absolutely to focus on here and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the new laws are something that sets new groundwork and new standards, which is at the moment the proposal for a law on evaluators of the value of immovableity, a very important law, a law that has long, long prepared and very long awaited, a law that requires first banks and financial institutions, and then business and citizens, to finally introduce order in the sphere of assessment of the value of immovableity. As we all know very well, so far, there have been various machinations with estimates of the value of immovableity, which have affected both the banking system in the Republic of Serbia and the stability of the banking system, but also the capital market and the real estate market. What is most important, and it will certainly be an opportunity to talk a little bit more about the proposed legal solutions, is that the proposal for a property value assessment law introduces a license to carry out an assessment of the value of immovableity, to finally introduce an institutional framework in the Republic of Serbia for the exercise of supervision of licensed evaluators and under three, to finally introduce a national standard and code of ethics in the assessment of the value of immovableity. This will finally give us the responsibility for evaluators of the value of immovableity and the possibility to initiate certain procedures to protect all parties in this process in the event of malfeasance. We hope that the bill will lead to the additional stability of the banking system, because I think we all agree that the accuracy of the estimate of the value of immovable property is one of the pillars of the stability of the banking system, but also that there will be an improvement in access to finance and an increase in the development of economic activity, by finally getting in the way of malversions in this important sphere. In addition, I would only like to touch some of the topics that I think are of particular importance to the citizens, which have been the subject of speculation in the past period and for which it is important for me to explain them in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to make it clear and loud to the citizens what they can expect, what the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is and what will eventually be adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the first place and most importantly, it is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax and what it will certainly be and was the subject of controversy, and this is a proposal to abolish VAT refunding for the purchase of food and baby equipment. At first, I would like to remove doubt that this will mean that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is confiscating the funds of the parents of newborn babies that they received for the purchase of food and equipment for babies, but to clarify that only a social measure will be done to define the Law on the financial support of families with children, which is currently being handled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the law on the financial support of families with children will, in fact, define a one-time payment of money in the name of buying baby equipment. So in fact, this measure, the support measure of parents, will actually go beyond the social dimension of the tax sector, because such measures should not be subject to tax policy and certainly, unjustly burden the tax administration, but will be transferred to the social protection domain and will be provided by the Family Financial Support Act with children that uniformly all parents receive this one-time payment of cash, while at this moment the existing solution is accessible to parents who apply themselves, who have time and the knowledge and ability to collect all the bills and then go through a somewhat complicated VAT refunding process. Here, and this will be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia about ten days ago by the Action Plan "Stop Bureaucracies", we will work in 2017 at the second stage of this fantastic project "Bebo Welcome to the World", i.e. "E baby", where in fact in the second phase, in addition to the application of newborn children, parents will be able to register at one place in the maternity centre for this one-time payment of money, so that they will be available to all parents. There will be an electronic service and there will be no additional administration, without further going to the counter and delivering additional documentation, all parents will be able to register for this one-time payment. In addition, it seems important to say that this measure we are proposing will only take effect when the law on the financial support of families with children is passed, and when that law comes into force, at the same time, so that there will not be a single day where parents are not in a position to receive or refund VAT for the purchase of baby food and equipment or social one-time payment of money in the name of the purchase of baby equipment, which is defined with the support of the Ministry of Finance, so that we have singled out as much as possible for the refunding of VAT for the purchase of food and equipment for babies, so that the more we can make life easier for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, make less administration, free of tax administration, and ensure that everyone who needs to receive this one payment. The second thing I would like to draw attention to is also under the law on changes and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, which is a reduction in VAT on transport and imports of wooden briquettes and pellets, which we propose to reduce from 20% to 10% currently and to start as early as 1 January 2017. The aim of this was to increase the production of wood briquettes and pellets and in fact increase employees in the environments rich in wood biomass, which is characteristic of rural areas that are also economically devastated, so we hope that this measure will actually help further employment in these local self-governments. There is also an important aspect of the environment. We will try to push as hard as we can to move on to heating with wood biomass, in order to protect the environment, but also in order to provide additional energy security for the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, because we are actually moving to our own source and to our own raw materials that the Republic of Serbia has in abundance. It also seemed important to me to mention certain proposals under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Customs Law which may be controversial and which, as I said at the outset, explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Act, it is proposed to delete part of the provision relating to privileges for persons with disabilities. The proposed solution only reshapes the provisions relating to the exemption from the payment of import duties of persons with disabilities, by defining in a broader manner this right as the right to import all items, specifically intended for education and employment or for the social progress of persons with disabilities, instead of the currently valid solution according to which the cases which may be exempt from customs payments are taxed. We feel that we have made this another way to make it easier for people with disabilities to come to their rights and somehow define them in a more comprehensive and broader way instead of taxing. It is also proposed to delete part of the provision relating to the release for natural persons from paying import duties on medicinal products for personal use received from abroad in consignments. Just one explanation, that eradicating the overa provision for the reason that the law is in line with the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, because this provision concerning the release of natural persons from paying import duties on medicinal products for personal use and was not practically applicable because the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices explicitly prohibited the marketing of medicines by mail, other than sending a sample of the medicinal product, in accordance with the same law. Also, as regards the abolition of the right to exempt from paying import duties on passenger cars and other motor vehicles for persons with disabilities, it should be stressed that only the basis for which this right can be exercised is only changed and, since full liberalisation and trade are in line with the existing Free Trade Agreement reached on 1 January 2015, passenger cars and other motor vehicles can be imported today without paying customs duty from countries with which the Republic of Serbia has the agreements mentioned, so that this provision has actually become unnecessary and for the purpose of harmonisation is deleted. And that would be about as far as these provisions are concerned. I think it is also important to mention in the law on amendments to the Excise Act, because this has already been said in the media today, that the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have proposed establishing an excise calendar on cigarettes for the period 2017 to 2020, as the current excise calendar expires in 2016. We had to propose this anyway. At the moment, the current excise duty on cigarettes is 61.72 dinars per pack of cigarettes, and it will increase from January 1st, if the National Assembly adopts this bill, to 64 dinars per hell, which is an increase of 2.28 dinars per hell. It is also predicted that a specific component of excise duty will be harmonised every six months, or every six months it will rise by 1.5 dinar per pack, while the 33% ad valoren component of excise duty will remain the same for the retail price of cigarettes. So, every six months, in a quarter a pack of cigarettes, they're going to be synchronised, on an excise calendar, excise cigarettes. This will come at the same time, on the one hand, this is what the consultations are about, this is consistent with the cigarette manufacturers. We can't expect it, it's very important, to go into a deeper gray economy because of this proposal. This is also a alignment with the June 2011 Council of Europe directive, and we should say that we expect that there will be greater revenues than taxing the excise duty of cigarettes in 2017 by about two billion compared to the previous year for the Republic of Serbia's budget. With this harmonisation, it is important to note, the overall level of excise duty in the Republic of Serbia on cigarettes is 54 euros per 1,000 pieces of cigarettes in the category of the average weighted retail price, while in the EU the total excise duty cannot be lower than 90 euros per 1,000 pieces of cigarettes in the average weighted retail price category, so the difference between Serbia and the EU remains significantly large. Since 1 January 2018, this proposal proposes to regulate the taxation of coffee excise duty in a different way. It will not increase excise duty here, but will expand the scope of the excise duty on coffee. So far, it's only on import. Now it's all in the process. So, in the process of processing, frying, packing, as well as other related actions. So, in this entire chain, you're going to introduce an excise. It will not increase, but will only deploy to all these participants in the process. In addition to beer and low alcoholic beverages containing less than 5% alcohol, it is proposed not to be marked with a control excise stamp. Low alcoholic beverages with alcohol content ranging from 1.2% to 5% of alcohol remain subject to excise taxation, but are proposed not to be marked by a control excise stamp. It seems to me that there is only one provision left that is of great importance for the citizens and for the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which we should mention in principle, but we will certainly talk in detail below and there will, of course, be other colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to explain the reasons and logic for these proposals as much as possible. What is important, I think, for the economy, is that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration is proposed, finally, it seems to me that the second-degree tax procedure is run by a special organisational part of the Ministry of Finance, which is what we will finally provide, if the National Assembly adopts this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the second-degree decision is made by independent authorities in relation to the first-degree body, because so far there has been a big problem for the first-degree body to decide, that someone complains about that decision, and that in fact the second-degree body is, moreover, the same one that was in the first degree. What is finally proposed and I think there will be a major improvement for both citizens and for the economy of the Republic of Serbia is that it will now be an independent body within the Ministry of Finance and that finally the whole process at the second stage will ensure a certain objectivity. This is also the case under the Customs Law, where practically the second-degree body is also a special unit within the Ministry of Finance in order to determine objectivity. So, all in all, it seems to me that there are absolutely no major and significant changes, if you take into account all that there are only amendments and amendments to the law, only in terms of moving the deadlines for the implementation of these laws in 2017, no longer than that, with the implementation of 1 January 2018, that you have a alignment with the EU legal framework and with the laws already adopted by the Serbian Parliament and that you have a new law, an important law, certainly, on evaluators of the value of immovableity. It seems to me that, in all things, it is possible to talk about this set of laws quite openly, that there is nothing there that, as insinuates hides the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These most sensitive things I have also cited in this introductory explanation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also important that citizens understand the changes we want, we propose to the National Assembly to introduce these amendments and additions and new laws, and finally, it seems to me that some new institutions are being introduced and some new legal solutions, which are, in general, very positive for both the economy and the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12582	Thank you. I'm asking if any of the other authorised representatives of the motionor want a word? The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12583	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs. At point 22 of this agenda, we have a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the NBS. According to Article 22, paragraph 1. NBS Act and Article 203 paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, the Assembly is obliged, i.e. in the jurisdiction of the Assembly, to elect members of the Board of Governors and Governors of the NBS. Accordingly, if one of the members of the Council, on 14 November 2016, expired from five years to which they were elected, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, had to initiate a procedure for selecting a new member of the Council and by 15 November to 29 November, it sent a letter to all parliamentary groups to submit its proposals. We held a session of the Committee on 16 December 2016, where we held talks with all the candidates who submitted the parliamentary groups. Since only one parliamentary group, or group of SNS, made its proposal, then we were obliged to put the proposal on the agenda and hold a conversation with the candidate at that session. SNS candidate Mr Stojan Stamenkovic, former member of the NBS Board. Otherwise, when we talk about Mr. Stamenkovic, it should be said that it is a graduated mathematician who has been known to be practically Serbian macro-economy, because since 1964, he has been practically dealing with this topic. From 1971 he was one of the founders of the economic institute, from 1982 to 1986, a major economist in the cabinet of the then prime minister. From 1983 to 1984, he was the deputy head of the Yugoslav delegation in negotiations with the IMF, to be later director of the Foreign Trade Institute, then from 1989 he returned to the federal government, where he is working to prepare economic reforms on Prime Minister Ante Markovic's team in 1992, after the practical creation of the SRJ works in the Federal Government, as a federal advisor for economic movements and politics, to be hired by the NBS, or then Yugoslavia, to develop a payment balance projection for 2001. I am deliberately saying this to show you the fundamental, professional movement of this candidate, who should be said to have participated in all negotiations with international institutions since 2001 and 2002, at the invitation of the National Bank, to be a member of the Board of Governors from 2012 to 2016. It should be said that so far he has had a number of published papers and books from areas related to Serbia's macroeconomic policy, especially when it comes to the dynamics of gross social product, investment, foreign direct investment and was directly the bearer and participant of seven of the most important projects. What he says practically about his work is the results of the National Bank so far, in this transitional period from 2012 to 2016, when we talk about this, economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. So, the biography itself, Mr Stamenkovic, and the work itself, which really shows one weight, especially when negotiations with international institutions are at stake, qualified him precisely to accept this proposal by the Committee, which was held at a session on 16 December 2016. We therefore sent this proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for adoption. It is not good not to do so until New Year's Eve, because there is a certain report by the National Bank of Serbia to international institutions and it is good that one institution has a complete composition. That's why she had to be on this agenda. The next proposal is item 23, the selection of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. It is a practical commitment of the Finance Committee under Articles 140 of Opinions 2 and 6 of the Public Procurement Act, which determines that such a Commission, in practice, chooses and resolves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Finance Committee. The amendments and additions to the laws that have entered into force, when we talk about this Act, on 12 August 2015, show that the number of members of this Commission has increased from six to eight. Together with the president, meaning nine members, practically make up this Commission, divided into three majors and what was decided on on 18 December 2015, it is that one of the members of this Commission was elected Mrs Hanna Hukic, president of the Republic Commission. As another member of the Council practically expired on 3 March 2016, conditions were met for the Committee on Finance to initiate the selection procedure of two members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. It should be said that the elections, practically the election process, between the initiation of this process and the completion, were only called for on March 7th, and on July 21st 2016, as the Committee was then formed in this conference, the Finance Committee. This meeting also formed a Working Group for the implementation of the selection procedure for candidates, i.e. for two members of this Commission. So the Working Group had a big task, which is that all proposals, i.e. candidates who sent their documentation to the published public competition, which is 11, simply controls in terms of documentation whether it is in accordance with the law, then in accordance with the definition of the practical qualification test. It is true that the law states that all candidates should be interviewed, but in the previous meeting of this Committee, we had a good system of introduction, a practical test of the candidates themselves, given that this is one specific area and since it is very difficult to assess what the candidates are essentially aware of and what they might be doing and how they should work. The way and type of testing is done with the help of the Public Procurement Administration Service in terms of text which should formulate certain questions, that there are 42 issues, that the proposal questions be each point-by-point, that the testing takes 90 minutes. We had a chance to see that no literature was allowed on the test itself. The withdrawal of questions would be from 1 to 80, on the board practically typing numbers, until they pulled out 42 numbers, so no candidate could know in advance what the test looked like. This was happening on the board, and then after that, this combination of questions were raised that the candidates had raised. Ten candidates took this test. What was a working group criterion is that 80% of these 42 points must practically be the level of knowledge that candidates must possess. That means 34 points was a minimum with which candidates could enter the conversation for these places. We got a list of the first five candidates and it should be said that the two candidates had 39, one 38, one 37 and one 34. We're in accordance with the law so that these other candidates don't have certain objections, we don't have a conversation. The board heard all 10 candidates and asked certain questions from this area. What we have come to and adopted as a committee at that session, on this basis we have submitted to the Assembly is that two candidates with 39 points or with the highest number of points should be committee proposals, i.e. they should be a proposal to elect two members of this republican committee. It is Jelena Stojanović and Svetlana Razic. Jelena Stojanovic has otherwise worked in court, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, worked at the Ministry of Finance, the Public Procurement Administration since 2003, has owned a certificate on public procurement, done over 100 cases. I practically worked to improve the work of this institution when we talk about the Public Procurement Administration. Svetlana Razic has been working since 2004 at the Public Procurement Office, he is also a lawyer. What matters is that she has been working in the monitoring work since 2007 and has been on the negotiating team for Chapter 5 which is otherwise open now, when we talk about European integration. He is a writer of many public procurement manuals and was a member of the Working Party for amending the law in 2015. Thus, it has been shown that those people who are truly professional have shown, in practice, by their knowledge and by this test that they are indeed running to be the proposal and committees and the parliamentary majority, when we speak of the election of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in the tendering process. I think some members of the opposition voted for these proposals, too, because there's nothing to blame them for, and there's really nothing to be found like a stain in their career. I think that in the voting day, when we talk about these proposals, given that these are congregation issues, we should, independently of political parties, really support the best when it comes to such personnel. What I would add is, in general, when we talk about human resources, we are ready to say at any moment that the personnel we have proposed in general and who are ultimately the only candidates turned out to be, they really have their own weight and they have their own principle of service to other next candidates when the choice of some of the following is being made. So we really set up high scales when it comes to proposals and I think in the day to vote we really expect other parties to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12584	Do any of the other authorised representatives of the motionors want a word? The word has a folk MP, Snezana Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12585	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Presidents and People's MPs, honourable members of the Government, by provision of Article 24(2). The Competition Protection Act stipulates that the term of office of the President of the Commission and the members of the Council shall expire over the time on which they have been elected, with a resolution for the reasons provided for in the law, the exercise of legal or factual reasons for the inability to carry out their duties, namely resignations, the fulfilment of age pension conditions, the loss of business capacity, the difficult health conditions which prevents the performance of duties and others. In accordance with Article 24. The law on the protection of competition gives rise to reasons for the termination of the term of office to meet the conditions for retirement, according to the relevant assembly committee. By decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the election of the president and members of the Competition Protection Council from 29 October 2014 for a period of five years, they were elected president of the Doc. Dr Miloje Obradović, while Dr Veljko Milutinović, Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinović, Marko Obradović and Ivan Ugrin were elected as members of the Competition Protection Council. Commission President Miloje Obradovic informed the Committee that Ivan Ugrin, a member of the Competition Protection Council, finished 65 years of his life on 18 June 2016, fulfilling the conditions for retirement. On the basis of Article 24(2), point (3) and point 3. The Law on the Protection of Competition and Article 54 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, held at the session held on 25 July 2016, decided most of the votes to suspend the mandate of a member of the Competition Protection Council, or found that Ivan Ugrin had suspended the mandate of a member of the Competition Protection Council on 18 June 2016, thus obtaining the conditions for launching a procedure for selecting a member of the Competition Protection Council. On the basis of Article 23. The law on competition protection, the President of the Commission and the members of the Council shall elect and resolve the National Assembly on a proposal from the Committee responsible for trade affairs, i.e. the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. The selection of the Commission bodies is carried out by public competition, which is advertised by the President of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly announced a public competition for the election of one member of the Competition Protection Council, published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 66/16, from 2 August 2016 At the public competition, 10 applications were accepted. At the third session of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, held on 20 September 2016, on the established agenda and on the basis of Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly held a conversation with participants in a public competition to elect a member of the Council of the Commission for the Protection of Competition under the alphabet order. Reminders, for the sake of the members of the Competition Protection Council, are selected from the ranks of prominent experts in the field of law and economy, with at least 10 years of relevant work experience, which have achieved significant and recognised works or practices in the relevant area, especially in the area of competition protection and European law, and which enjoy the reputation of an objective and impartial person and that, in the composition of the Commission's Council, including the President of the Commission, experts from both relevant areas with at least two representatives must be represented. At the same session, the Committee selected a three-member working group to determine the fulfilment of the conditions of the public competition participants to elect a member of the Competition Protection Council, and elected Dr. Aleksandra Tomic for the president of the three-member working group, and for the members of Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Gorica Gajic. The task of the working group was to review the original documentation obtained by the participants of the public competition and to establish and propose to the Committee which of the public competition's participants fulfils the criteria and conditions laid down in the Competition Protection Act and the Public Competition. At the meeting of the Working Group held on 11 October of this year, members of the Working Group reviewed the original documentation obtained by the participants of the public competition and based on the examination of the documentation and the discussion carried out at the Committee session with participants in the public competition, they concluded that all participants provided complete documentation in good time, as they meet the criteria and conditions laid down in the Competition Protection Act and the advertising public competition. Also, on that occasion, it was found that one of the 10 candidates reported had withdrawn his application and cancelled his participation in the competition. The report of the Working Group, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, to determine the fulfilment of the conditions of a public competition participant for the selection of a member of the Competition Protection Council and a letter from Željko Martinović on the withdrawal of a public competition application for the selection of a member of the Competition Protection Council, was submitted to the members of the Committee, who at the 5th session of the Committee on Economic Development, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, on 14 November 2016, discussed and adopted it. Since they're a doctor. Dr Miloje Obradović and Marko Obradovic, economic experts, and Dr Veljko Milutinović and Mirjana Miskovic Vukasinovic are experts in the field of law, the current composition of the Commission is such that it meets the legal condition that experts from both relevant areas with at least two representatives are represented. On this basis, candidates for a member could be elected from both relevant areas of law or economy. When setting out a list of candidates for a member of the Competition Protection Council, the Committee's MPs pointed out that high quality participants applied for the public competition and assessed that the Committee had a serious approach when talking to nine participants in the public competition announced when they were examined in detail. It has been indicated that when deciding to elect a candidate for a member of the Competition Protection Council, it should take into account the restrictions set out in the Competition Protection Act on the termination of the term of office by meeting the conditions for retirement and that four candidates registered at that time after the announced competition and almost fulfil that condition. The question has been raised - is this a restriction in the Competition Protection Act valid, since it is not available in other laws? A proposal has been made for the Committee to elect a candidate and for the candidate to be Mr Cedomir Radojicic, who has great experience as an earlier member of the Commission Council and now the Head of the Competition Injuring Sector in the Commission's Service. It is pointed out that with its experience, especially in the last ten years in the work of the Council and the Commission's Competition Protection Office, it can make a full contribution to the Commission's work. During talks with the Committee members, Mr Radojicic said he advocated teamwork and close co-operation with the Committee and the National Assembly. He realized that all the solutions and conclusions relating to legal entities are a reflection of real life and that there must be a certain balance in Commission decisions. Reported participants have shown that the protection of competition becomes an integral part of the daily work of economic operators and that all Serbian citizens benefit from the increase in competition on the market. With their participation in the market, citizens can also choose that option of choice encourages certain economic activities of all economic operators in society, where all MPs as citizens should insist. It was also stated that, based on talks with public competition participants and two criteria of theory and practice, it should give priority to three public competition participants. The members of the Committee individually declared all nine participants in the public competition in order to establish a list of candidates. Since the list of candidates may contain at least the same, and a maximum of twice the number of candidates to be selected and one member of the Competition Protection Council should be selected, the Committee may, therefore, establish a list of candidates from one or two candidates who receive the most votes. The Committee voted individually on all public competition participants who applied for a member of the Commission's Council for the Protection of Competition in the alphabetical order. When voting to elect a candidate for the Competition Protection Council, Mr Cedomir Radojicic received nine votes in favour, while the other candidates received one vote at a time. The Committee president found that with nine votes to participate in the public competition, Cedomir Radojicic was the only one who received the votes needed and that he had been elected a candidate for a member of the Commission's Competition Protection Council. On the basis of Articles 23, 3 and 4. The law on the protection of competition and of Article 203. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy established a list of candidates for the Competition Protection Council, which he submitted with a biography of the National Assembly for consideration and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-12-22-1.u12586	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants a word? No, I don't. We'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
