ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u852	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group will respect the agreement and we will vote for all proposals that have been determined by consensus, but I simply can't keep quiet, my conscience wouldn't stay calm, I couldn't sleep if I didn't honestly tell you what the problem was this morning. We have a committee called the Security Control Committee. This is a very important committee in all parliamentary democracies because parliamentary democracies are the most threatened by executive power, and the funds of executive authorities threatened by democracy are often different security services. That's right in America, so it's in Great Britain, France, Germany, etc. These security services as an instrument of the executive authority often seek and manage to stand alone, play their own game, and therefore, of all parliamentary obligations in the control of the executive authority, the most important control of the security service is. We have to control our security services, and with them we have a terrible negative experience throughout the 19th century, throughout the 20th century, and here we are at the beginning of the 21st century. These security services have always been more or less uncontrollable instruments of the executive government and always at every stage of state development, they have shown a tendency to stand alone. Parliamentary bodies that would control their work have long not existed at all, and when formed, then their work was eventually formalized. In order not to be a case right now, it's very important what the composition of the Security Control Committee is, are these people of integrity, whether they're people for whom there are criminal affairs, whether they're people who can be blackmailed, whether they're people who can bow to some kind of pressure on the side or not, whether they're people who have moral integrity after all. I will not, of course, doubt the entire composition of the proposed Security Control Committee that there is a problem I will present to you only on the basis of the first example, based on the fact that Igor Becic was proposed to be a member of that committee and as it was heard in the towers envisaged for the chairman of the committee. You know what kind of affairs he's having with him. You know about the problem of his fake college degree, and here at the last session of the National Assembly he lied about never calling a tall Italian statesman George Mortadele... (Nenad Chanak, from the city: Salmonella. No, you added Canak to the towers. So can such a man be a member of the Security Control Committee? Could he be resistant to the pressures of the service, to planting the service? These services have a whole spectrum of methods of action that we may not even know about yet, of which we would be creeped up, we would get our hair on our heads, and when they have someone who has all the predisposition to be a pawn, the work of the board will be formalized to the end. Why did I take your word for it? We will not give up on the agreement reached, but this is an appeal to the parliamentary majority to consider whether a representative of this kind in the Security Services Control Committee is appropriate to her or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u853	Anyone else want a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u854	I must report to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Gojkovic, the dignity of the National Assembly. I think it is a common parliamentary practice not to comment on the personal solutions given by the parliamentary groups when it comes to the working bodies of the National Assembly and the SNS parliamentary group, and I do not know why Mr Seselj was going to comment on whom the SNS parliamentary group proposed to the Security Control Committee. In doing so, he treated and expressed in an ugly way, ultimately about his fellow man here in the National Assembly. If we go into this kind of debate, as president of the parliamentary group, I could ask if Mr. Seselj has the credibility to be a member of the Security Control Committee because I was reading some documents that he was a co-worker of the Centre of State Security in Sarajevo, under the code name "magister", now if we start to do that and if we start doing the political anatomy of every board member from committee to committee, then I think this debate can go in a completely different direction. Therefore, each parliamentary group had the right to propose its Members' MPs, i.e. the deputy board members. That's what every member of Parliament did. I would like to express my special gratitude to Mrs Gojkovic, here I am finishing Mrs Gojkovic, and I would like to give you a thank you because you have really respected the Rules of Procedure until the end when it comes to the right of parliamentary groups to propose members, or vice-members of the board. No MP group can complain that any right has been denied as much as it belongs to them, so many places have been given.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u855	Time. Thank you. Did you say Article 27? I can agree with you that there are elements that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't want to cut MPs in their discussions right away in the first session. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I have another ten minutes. ) But in the end, when all the authorities have completed their discussions and on the list who speaks. Do you think we should vote? (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word is from Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u856	In the proposal for a decision of the Security Control Committee, my name is also written for the Deputy...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u857	Excuse me, MP, you are not authorized in front of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u858	That's right, I didn't, but I wanted to tell you one thing that's important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u859	Then let's let the authorities go first. You're not authorized by the group. I don't see where you're sitting. Don't sit there like last time. You're not authorized by the group. You can do it later. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u860	Thank you. We need today to complete a constitutional session that we started about 20 days ago. We took a break more than 15 days ago to get to this point today. The agreement on the composition of the board was made in one day. I think we could have done this job a lot sooner. However, this work of constitution is not finished until the end, because one thing is missing, and this is an agreement on the presidents of the working bodies of the Assembly. When we had consultations with Vice President Arsic, he said he had no mandate to discuss the board's presidents, that you would do so at some consultations. We're supposed to vote for board members today, which is, uh, a congregation meeting here on the tide. The board presidents shall be elected by each committee, but shall always be known when a decision on board members has been adopted, who shall chair which committee. I'm sorry we don't have that deal today. This is not to you, nor to me, nor to most MPs of the first term, so that we do not know that this part has always been agreed at the time when the decision on the composition of the boards was made. I don't know how much longer it will take us to complete the constitution, to make that agreement, and to agree on delegations, because today there is no point in the constitutional session as a agenda for the selection of delegations. I'm afraid it'll take more time. I'm saying all this because it's been two months since the election. We still don't have a proposal to elect a new government, and I believe, when that proposal comes, as we listened here in the first part of this constitutional session, we were always talking about some speed, about the need to work fast, to work day, night, by midnight, by two, three, I don't even know how many mornings, that then 15 days we wouldn't do anything here in the tide. I'm asking you as president to carry out those consultations. One day we needed to make this deal. I believe that everyone is rational and reasonable, with the help of mathematics and goodwill, I believe that very quickly we can come to an agreement on the presidents of the board, end the constitution and finally wait and welcome the prime minister with the proposal of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u861	Thank you. As far as consulting on the president and vice president is concerned, we'll wait for that to happen. You know when the president of one committee is from the ruling majority, the deputy from the opposition, and we can't do that yet at this point. We have an agreement on administrative and budget issues, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. We have to have these three committees at all to join the government's election. I don't know yet if there's going to be any amendments to the Government Act and similar regulations, so we're going to wait for the constitution of the other committees, because they need us for bill proposals, mostly. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u862	Dear fellow Members of the People, first of all, I would like to welcome you all, and then, very briefly, in the name of the Devere parliamentary group, to refer to something that is not disputed in this proposal and something that, in our opinion, is still controversial in this proposal. We will, of course, support this proposal as a joint agreement between all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure equal representation of all representatives of the parliamentary groups according to election results and the number of mandates in the Assembly in all assembly committees. It's not a dispute, and we really have representatives in nine assembly committees, as it follows us according to that schedule you made, that we do. But what I don't think it's been established to me is that you've made a schedule for the opposition committees, in which the opposition committees, to put it that way, can't be. It's clear that with nine possibilities for us to have representatives on board, some of us will have, in some we won't have, out of 19. However, what is characteristic is that the Dveri parliamentary group does not have its members in some of the most important committees. Here, let me just count them... (Serb Progressive Party emissaries scold. I apologize, did I do something wrong, or will you warn the MPs of power?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u863	There's no reason to warn anyone. Not everyone has to agree with your speech. No one has offended you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u864	I'm sorry if I made a mistake. I ask you to warn him, to warn the ambassadors who earn and who make it impossible for me to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u865	Ambassador, you're running out of time. I can't tell if you've done anything wrong in your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u866	Can you warn those who earn while the People's Messenger speaks?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u867	I can't warn you. They don't agree with your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u868	So we have the right as MPs to throw when we disagree with someone's speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u869	You can throw, you can't insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u870	Thank you, just so we know, thank you for that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u871	You'll learn, take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u872	I thank you. From now on, we'll throw every time...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u873	But you're wasting your time in a debate about throwing it away. You're talking about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u874	Why do you care about that? It's my time. Let me use it the way I think I should.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u875	Look, just one thing I'm going to explain to you, I'm going to turn you off until you figure out what this is. You need to talk about the agenda point. No, it's my time, so you've been discussing whether someone throws or throws away for 20 minutes. It's all in the Rules of Procedure. I'm not making anything up. We've had a 20-day break. I think it could've been a good use. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: Can I continue or will you interrupt me? I'll interrupt you whenever you don't talk about the agenda. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: When I didn't talk about the agenda point? That's all I'm talking about. ( b) Will you talk about the suggestions that we have in front of us today? (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Of course, that's what I started about. ) You have to log in again. If you haven't noticed, you haven't been reported in a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u876	Mrs. Flyer, I beg you... (Serb Progressive Party emissaries scold. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u877	Let the MP go. Well, that's the most he knows about the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u878	So, please, first of all, you turned off my microphone for no reason at all. I talked all the time about the agenda point, about the division of seats on the committees of the Serbian Parliament. The moment I discussed it, the board of directors began to earn...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u879	MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u880	... Members of the government have begun to earn, and you, as president of the Parliament of the Rules of Procedure, are obliged to warn in fact every MP who interferes with the speech of another MP. But let's get back to the subject. It is true, then, that all MP groups have been respected and that they have received as many seats on boards as they are scheduled. In particular, the Devere parliamentary group has the right to members and vice-members on nine committees. It's not undeniable. That is why we will vote in favour of this joint agreement, because we do not want to underestimate the committees we have received, but we want to give our maximum in the work of these committees, regardless of what we consider incorrect by the ruling majority to deprive us practically of all the most important assembly committees, which I wanted to prove specifically, by reading the names of committees in which we do not have members. These are: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Culture and Information, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, and the Committee on Security Control. So it was very important that on behalf of our parliamentary group we establish and that it is publicly known that the ruling majority is the one who creates who will get what seats in which committees. So, there's no deal here, there's an imposition here on your part, and you said -- here you go, this is your nine committees, and you've deprived us practically seven, eight of the most important council committees. We said okay. We're not underestimating any of the committees you've assigned us. We named it, i.e. proposed to appoint members and deputies members of the Dveri parliamentary group, but it is my obligation as president of the parliamentary group to determine the behaviour of the ruling majority who apparently wanted the committees, which are absolutely the most important in this Assembly, that the representatives of the Dvori do not have a member and deputy members and I have already listed which committees. You've now listed the three most important committees that need to be formed urgently and that work to make the government possible at all. Neither of those three committees have any member or deputy members. So it is very clear that you have selectively and looking carefully at whom you will assign and whom you will not assign, and that you are deliberately, I would say, I would avoid, in the main committees at all, giving a chance to the Members of the Dveri, that their voice there is heard as full members and deputies. Of course, we will use the possibility of the Rules of Procedure to attend meetings of all congregation committees where we do not have a member or deputy member. We will take advantage of the opportunity that the Rules of Procedure gives us and we will speak at the end of the debate on all these assembly committees, since, of course, we have studied the Rules of Procedure in detail and we know it well, which you will soon find very nice and very convincing, so I have also drawn your attention that you must respect it yourself. So, not to be that you are some correct authority that all very correct and fine works, as you want to introduce yourself. So, you've very selectively assigned seats to committees, you've avoided having a member and deputy member of the Dveri parliamentary group in all key assembly committees, but we'll still vote for this joint proposal, so we don't underestimate the importance of the other assembly committees that you've practically delegated us to. Although we have put forward proposals in which nine committees want us to be members, you, of course, did not respect more than half of these proposals and you assigned us committees that you think you should. It is understandable that you as a majority can try to eliminate the opposition in all ways, to hold back from hearing the opposition's voice, to throw, to shout, to make it impossible in various other ways to disable the opposition's word, but it simply won't be possible. I would like to express the wish of the MPs from the ranks of the Serbian Movement Court to regularly attend all the Assembly committees, and where we have, and where we do not have a member and deputy members and thus to make our contribution to the work of all the Assembly committees and thus to hear the additional voice of the opposition in the work of all the assembly committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u881	Ambassador, you spoke to me, although I am not the representative of the ruling majority here, but I would ask you to read the good article 23 and everything is done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and the election results of course differ. Someone who has received this number of votes, as seen on the right, has been translated into a number of parliamentary seats, and so the committees are divided until the next election, and then the committees are divided again, so that no one has any intention to deny your political option to participate in any committees, but that is not up to us, but is decided by Serbian citizens in the elections and everything is beautifully written in article 23, just needs to be read well. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u882	I would just like to ask for an interpretation, since you said something contrary to what is in the Rules of Procedure, which reads: “Article 106. – during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, no discard is allowed. “ You just said it was allowed. I'm new here in the congregation, so if you could explain whether it's allowed or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u883	It's not exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure to explain, but this has been an embarrassment. So you don't agree with the speech. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Veroljub Arsic, Proposer of the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins or SNS parliamentary groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u884	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is very difficult for someone to be satisfied, or to be satisfied when the committee seats are being deployed. One idea was not to discuss positions on committees with parliamentary groups, but to representatives of parliamentary groups selected from one list, and then if something belonged to the Twors, it could not have been the DSS or vice versa. I think it was quite fair for us to perform in such a way as to come up with a deal. The number of board members does not even determine the ruling majority, is set in the April 24th elections, and everyone has to be aware of that. According to Article 23(2), there must be a certain majority of the committee, and that is respected. The number of mandates per committee on the basis of the number of MPs in the parliamentary groups is maximum respect. What couldn't we just respect? That once the election is over, there's a group of MPs more. These mistakes are so small and of course you'll first ask a list that has the most MPs, so the next list, it was the SPS in this case, so the SRS, in the order that the results were made in the elections. I'm sorry, we made sure that we respected the will of the citizens, and it just couldn't belong to someone else from the opposition who was weaker in making the proposal. The parties, the parliamentary groups, can stand up to each other. It's no problem at all, we'll support those suggestions, but if anyone wants to say that this is here, this paper, the proposal for a decision by the terror majority, it's not honest, it's not telling the truth. Does he want to introduce himself as a victim? Maybe. Does he mean it wasn't an election, to say it was a dictatorship? Maybe that, but at least some rules, which were established in this House long before I came in here before my colleague came in, respect them, because they're good rules. We have a good proposal for a decision on the selection of board members, or congregation working bodies, which was reached on the basis of agreement. I'm sorry, if we make a deal, and then you say in a few days, there was no deal, and I have no obligation to have that agreement with you to honor, or to invite you to the next conversation, because we agree as serious people. No one's gonna take anything from SNS here, what anybody's got, won the election. The number of board members determines the number of MPs, the number of presidents some deal, but these are the rules that exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u885	Thank you. There are no reports on the lists, and according to the Rules of Procedure, I will give Zoran Zivkovic an MP, after the mandated, after the speaker, I have remembered everything, don't worry about anything. Zoran Zivkovic, because he has something to say, because he found himself on the list of proposed ones, and he disagrees. Here you go. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u886	Thank you very much. In a proposal by the Security Control Committee, my name is also mentioned as a member's deputy. It's a change from the deal that existed and that I agreed to. Since this has been done without my consent, I ask you to remove my name from this motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u887	I agree, Chief of Parliament? Okay. Let it enter the record, that from the section of the decision, number 19, the Security Control Committee, the regular number 8 for member Zoran Zivkovic - we will delete and with this change we will go to the vote, and the DS parliamentary group will deliver us for one of the next sessions of the additions. According to article 96, who has not used his time, it is MP Vojislav Seselj. Please just sign in one more time, let me give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one in this National Assembly must be incomparable and everyone must be prepared to bear anything at his expense, whether it be or not, true. I raised objections to the parliamentary majority's proposal concerning MEP Igor Becic, making concrete arguments, as to why the proposal is not morally valid. And the representative of that parliamentary group skipped the plea, kept his mouth shut. Am I right when I said Igor Becic had a suspicious degree, or an illegally acquired diploma, or a fake diploma? And did I lie when I said that Igor Becic, a high-ranking Italian statesman, called George Martadela, here in the Assembly? It would therefore be justified to disprove the opposition’s statement in the public semi-economics. That's not what happened. Aleksandar Martinovic defined himself as another method, hitting on the person of the opponent, so that he wouldn't have to prove the untrueness of his words, because otherwise you can't prove them. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: The Court says it is not true. Well, I proved the last time that you were a ticker, for example. Don't get in my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u889	MP, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u890	But he's getting into my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u891	But he has the right to enter the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u892	He has no right to enter the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u893	He has the right to enter the word. You can't like what you're saying about an SNS MP. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I did not find it. But don't, if we go about the look of MPs, we'll go a long way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u894	Okay, Aleksandar Martinovic, is that he would morally disqualify me, said there was a document that once I was a deunant of the state security service, or an associate, or a spy, whatever. That document doesn't exist, but there's a book printed by Franciscan Fratri, in Shiroki Brijeg, where my name was only entered that I was one of them in 1979, when I was politically unsuitable to serve the school of reserve officers. A strong argument was made here by Aleksandar Martinovic, but he had much stronger arguments. I've been tried for eight years in prison for counter-revolutional endangerment of the fundamentals of the social order, for four years in prison for hostile propaganda, repeatedly criminal and criminal, more than 20 times for violent behavior, public order violations, peace, etc. These were much stronger arguments that he could disprove my candidacy for a seat on this committee, so I'm surprised he didn't bring them out. There are even stronger arguments, 50 large volumes, from 1,000 pages of evidence from The Hague prosecution, that I am a war criminal and a criminal against humanity. The Hague prosecution documents are much more credible than what the Franciscan friars there typed in and nothing more and no other indicator. So you should have referred to The Hague documents. I am accused of killing over 5,000 people, civilians, prisoners of war, and you have agreed to be a member of this committee and I am grateful to you. You could have challenged me, but now you can't stupidly dispute my argument that Igor Becic doesn't deserve to be a member of this committee or God forbid his president. I have a very compromising past. You've seen how many times I've been in prison, convicted, punished, kicked out of work, out of college, out of this, out of that and that my compromising one can be the cause of different frustrations. I've been experiencing frustrations here, 12 years in prison can't go without frustration, but yet my frustrations weren't as strong as the frustrations of Alexander Martinovic in his childhood because they were all pulling him by the ears...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u895	Ambassador, I had to shut you down. Otherwise, in order not to further extend the debate, the National Security Alliance shall issue a certificate of a security check carried out by each member of the Board. In the last term, we also had MPs who got a negative opinion, so we don't have to waste time. You didn't even know Ambassador Canak... So we'll have all the security checks from the authorities. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u896	Article 108 concerning Article 106 In Article 108, Mrs Gojkovic is said to be the president of the National Assembly, or you, in the session of the National Assembly. In Article 106, paragraph 2 says that no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly, and in paragraph 3 during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, the delay of speakers is not allowed in any other way, if any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. I ask you, in accordance with article 108 and your duty to take care of the order at the National Assembly, that this Rules of Procedure be applied in accordance with all the MPs and equally, as you promised when you were elected president of the National Assembly. A member of 106 cannot be interpreted voluntarily and say that someone can throw and interfere with the speaker, if it is clearly prescribed that there can be no pitching or disrupting the speaker. If that applies to the opposition MPs, it should also apply to the ruling majority MPs, so I ask you to apply this article to both Parliamentarian Martinovic and all others who receive during the speech of the opposition MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u897	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. First Ljubisa Stojmirovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u898	Hurt 107, violation of the Parliament's dignity. Please, Madam President, make sure that they no longer address each other with nicknames, but with a name and a last name, because it can cause very ugly practice. We're all people here who are recognizable by name and last name. We have our shortcomings, weaknesses and virtues, but I think it's a big mistake for Mr. Seselj, whom I address as a gentleman, to do so. I don't know how he'd feel if I spoke to him from "nosone" or "skibony," but these are attributes that match his physical appearance. Respecting Mr. Seselj and believing that he will accept this suggestion of mine, I urge you to take care of yourself, too, because this assembly will turn into a circus. Thank you. (Vojislav Seselj, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u899	There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. That's why I need the help of the MPs, MP. I need the help of the MPs. I can't be a cop who's gonna react and shut down in a second, but I need all of you to take care of what you say about each other. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) You can do it by the Rules of Procedure, but you have to sign in. Are we going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u900	Ladies and gentlemen, Ljubisa Stojmirovic is...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u901	You have to tell me a member so I can follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u902	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u903	That was now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u904	Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u905	And that was it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u906	When was it? Article 2
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u907	Article 108(2)? Okay. So, a warning to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u908	What would you like to give a warning? I asked for article 107, but Natasha led me astray.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u909	No, no, he was a member of 107, a member of 108, paragraph 2. Explain the MP, it's been a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u910	Article 2 Article 107(1)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u911	You have no right. It's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You didn't know what you were calling for.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u912	This is an abuse that Ljubisa Stojmirovic did.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u913	No, it's not. He called for the Parliament's dignity. I interrupted you when you started using offensive descriptive adjectives. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: You are not Him. I didn't listen to him because I had to listen to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica of the presentation of Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Seselj can tell me whatever he wants, he can't absolutely insult me or piss me off. And I admit that I'm clumsy and I'm stupid, and I'm fat and he can tell me whatever he wants. I'm not going to look back on that, and as far as I'm concerned, let him continue to please insult me. He can't piss me off. I just want to say two things. Mr. Seselj, I don't know what the Franciscans were doing on Shiroki Breg, but I know this is your photo, the UDBA membership card. Since you like to say that you support your argument with some documents, here I have found a document, a membership card, your photo and I think, Mr. Seselj, that being a co-worker of the Centre of State Security in Sarajevo actually qualified you to be a member of the Security Control Committee. Who better than you know how security services work than you spies? I forgot to say, if we really don't want to turn this Assembly into something that it shouldn't be, simply because of the public, Mr Igor Becic owns a certificate for access to classified information, a "state secret" issued by the National Security and Security Council Office on 23 April 2015. The SNS parliamentary group considered that Mr Igor Becic absolutely met all the business conditions, all the political, all the legal conditions to be a member of the Security Control Committee, whether or not someone liked it. So the document exists. Mr. Igor Becic has a certificate that he can access classified information with a degree of "state secret" and we believe that there is absolutely nothing controversial about Mr. Igor Becic's candidacy as a member of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-06-22-0.u915	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 24. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on a proposal for a decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, shall be decided by a general public vote. Members and deputies of the board shall be elected if they win most of the votes of the total number of MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 207 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted – seven of the 216 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority of the votes of the total number of MPs. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, at a session on 3 June 2016, at 17 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 versus – 11, abstention – one, they did not vote – 74 of the total of 217 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that a member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. National MP Srdjan Nogo at a session on 3 June 2016, at 17 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – 12, abstentions – no, they did not vote – 53 of the 213 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the First Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have a message for you. Three committees have been scheduled to be notified. The first session of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs was held on Wednesday 22 June at 12:00 in Hall Two in this building. The first session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives was convened on Wednesday (June 22nd) starting at 12.30 p.m. in Hall Two and the first session of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government was convened at 13.00 p.m. also in Hall Two. Thank you.
