ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47786	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Sabina Dazdarevic. Here you go, Mrs. Dazdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47787	Thank you, Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I refer my first question to the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, Mrs Zorani Mihajlovic, and it is about the regional routes of Tutin-Pazarište-Novi Pazar, Novi Pazar-Senica and Tutin-Vuca, the border with Montenegro. The Tutin-Novi Pazar regional road is one of the worst in the territory of the entire Republic. It was made in the 1960s and since then absolutely nothing has been done to improve the state of August and the elements of the road. More than 20 rinks were recorded on this section, only a few of which were recovered. He's in very bad shape and, as such, poses a danger to traffic. This time daily uses more than a thousand inhabitants of Tutina, mostly students and students, as well as employees, to reach their schools, universities and jobs. As far as the Tutin-Vuč road route is concerned, it is a link to our neighbouring country of Montenegro and is located on the border crossing of the Wolf. It is completely incomprehensible that one interstate where the border crossing is located can be macadamic, which is precisely the case with this route. Unlike us, the share of this road located on the territory of the Republic of Montenegro is paved and fully functional. Speaking of these routes, I must remind you that the two governments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey in negotiations provided credit by the Turkish Export Bank under extremely favourable conditions for the revitalisation of the road infrastructure in Sandzak, in particular for the revitalisation of these routes. The pathways form the basis of the development of a single environment. As more than 50% of the road network in the Tutin municipality, which is mainly in the jurisdiction of the state, in a catastrophic state, this undeveloped and neglected part of the country loses every chance of development and becomes more underdeveloped and even poorer. My question to the Ministers of Construction is – why has no reconstruction of the construction of these routes yet started? When do you plan to start your work and when do you plan to finish your work on these roads? I refer my second question to Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic. It has been more than five years since the Tutin municipality of the Basic Court, the Criminal Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office, were abolished by the Law on Seats and Areas of Public Prosecutors. Tutin is a municipality that has nearly 40,000 inhabitants, a territory of 741km square, a municipality that has enough cases for the completely independent work of these courts. It is a border municipality in which they can and should be dealt with by cases referred to in Article 308. The law on violations, i.e. in cases where the so-called shortened procedure is to be conducted. Tutin is a municipality with extremely bad road infrastructure, which I spoke about in the first part of my exposure, where people need to cross more than 70 kilometers in order to do some need in court. The 2010 Law, which abolished the Court of First Instance, the Criminal Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office, proved itself to be an extremely bad solution in Tutin, and for this reason I ask Mr Selakovic – why is it that a municipality inhabited mainly by Bosniaks, therefore to a minority people, who have all the necessary preconditions, cannot have their own basic court, why can't they have their own criminal court and their own public prosecutor's office? Why do you violate the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the fundamental rights of national minorities? Why don't you bring the courts and the prosecution back to the citizens and the citizens of Tutin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47788	Thank you. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament to Olena Papuga, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47789	Dear Vice-President, I first ask my question to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, or Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, which refers to legalisation under the old and new law. According to the old law, the legalization of e.g. A hundred squares of the house or an object cost up to 200,000 dinars, which was a lot of people. The government of the Republic of Serbia has given the possibility that the legalisation under the old law can be paid either in three wars or at some 30% discount to be paid in one war. Many of our citizens who, I say, wanted to do their civic duty to the Republic of Serbia to legalise their facilities took credits, they were in charge of legalising their facilities and perhaps fulfilling some of the possibility of paying less with those 30%, to be freed from that part of legalization. I also want to ask that, under the new law, the cost of legalization is much lower. Now about a hundred squares of legalization of the facility costs about 3,000 to 5,000 dinars, and I already said, once upon a time, by old law, it cost from 160,000 to 200,000 dinars. I ask Minister Zorana Mihajlović – are citizens who have legalized their houses under the old law, who paid 160,000 dinars for 100 squares, punished for being in some way obedient, safe and good citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47790	I'm asking the MPs to allow a colleague of the Papuga to complete the presentation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47791	They repeat Minister Mihajlovic's question. Are citizens who have legalized their houses under that old law in some way punished for wanting to do their civic duty and legalizing their facilities paid a significantly higher price for legalisation than those who are doing so now? Is the state planning to pay them back a certain amount of money from these, for example? 160,000 dinars, and now legalisation costs 5,000 dinars, do the Minister and the Ministry plan to pay them back that debt and reward them in some way because they were safe and honest citizens of this country? The second question is asked by the Minister of Culture and Information Ivan Tasovac, which refers to the removal of the Radio and Television Programme of Vojvodina via the Tower of Avala. By decision of the electronic media regulatory body, Vojvodina Radio-Television was removed from the tower transmitter, making the signal of this house unreachable not only in some parts of the Republic of Serbia, but also in Srema viewers, for example. The South Banat who watched the Vojvodina Radio-Television Programs through Avala. The Vojvodina Radio-Television signal has not been broadcast from a transmitter on Avali since May, July. With this decision, a good part of the citizens, as I said, under Sava and Danube, not only in Vojvodina, are damaged because they cannot monitor programmes, among other things, the Vojvodina Radio Television, which broadcasts on the First Programme, especially on the Vojvodina Radio-Television programme on the Second Programme, which broadcasts programmes in ten languages of national minorities. So, the Vojvodina Radio-Television on the Second Programme broadcasts the programme in both Bulgarian and Macedonian, in the Roma language, which are e.g. They could watch citizens of Western Serbia, South Serbia because Serbia's radio-television on all its programmes does not broadcast any shows in those languages, or the public service of Serbia's Radio-Television has no programmes in the languages of national communities. With REM's decision without any interpretation, the broadcasting of the TV via Avala programme was suspended, so I ask Minister Tasovac why it was done, if he thinks he has damaged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to inform themselves in languages, in his native language, and if he means to do anything about it. I also ask the ministry a second question, when a TV building that was torn down in NATO bombings will be built in 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47792	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47793	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, before I say something about relations between the Republic of Serbia and Macedonia that are generally good and are really developing in the spirit of good neighbouring countries, excellent economic co-operation, since our country exports goods and services worth more than 600 million dollars annually to Macedonia and that our imports from Macedonia are about 260 million dollars. Political dialogue is constantly being held between Serbia and Macedonia, which also contributed to the visits by top officials on both sides, particularly the joint session of the government of the Republic of Macedonia and Serbia held, was the first in Belgrade on 3 June 2013, and the second in Skopje on 16 February last year. In particular, relations between Serbia and Macedonia have been intensified and raised to a higher level in the last two years since Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic was headed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. What I'm saying is that good relations also contribute to national minorities living in two countries. In Macedonia, it lives according to the results of the latest census of some 36,000 members of the Serbian national community, while the number of Macedonians in our country is around 23,000. In Serbia since Macedonia's independence since 1992, until the Ohrid Agreement 2001, they have not recognised the status of a national minority which has made it much more difficult for them, unlike all other recognised minorities such as Albanians, Turks, Vlaha, Roma, Serbs, this status has not been recognised, but after the signing of the Ohrid Agreement in 2001 and the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia, the status of a nation has been recognised to allow the conclusion in 2004 of an agreement between Serbia and Macedonia on the protection of the rights of national minorities. However, under the agreement formed commission, a mixed, intergovernmental protection of the rights of national minorities that should have started working since 2005 and to this day, we are now in 2016, unfortunately, never met once. That's why my question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia is whether the appointment of this commission is planned and will it start at last? I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia for, following my parliamentary question concerning the mixed, intergovernmental commission between Serbia and Hungary, which was headed by Bojan Pajtic, in November last year, resolved him, because indeed while he was at the head of the commission in the last two years, nothing was done. Now, finally, after his release, the appointment of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has come under conditions for the Commission to also start working to protect the rights of national minorities between Serbia and Hungary. I want to say that the Serbs in Macedonia are well-organised, that they have two MPs in Sober. Macedonia is also awaiting early elections scheduled for April 24th this year. So, the Serb community is represented by Ivan Stojiljkovic, who is the president of the Democratic Party of Serbs in Macedonia and Dragisa Miletic, president of the SNS. I would like to point out that Serbs have achieved success in the local elections held in April last year, that the Serbian Progressive Party won in the Skopje municipality and here I congratulate on that Serbian Progressive Party, because not only wins in Serbia, wins in Macedonia, as we can see, and not in any municipality, in one Skopje, city, central municipality, Karpos, and the Serb community has won in the local elections where it won the mayor. I believe that after the start of this Commission's work on the protection of the rights of national minorities, some negative trends related to the reduction of the number of members of the Serbian community for the inability of their education, as only three primary schools in Serbian at the moment are working on the territory of Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47794	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer me with what methodology was used on the basis of a decision, or regulation by the Government in determining the number of employees in the Public Enterprise "The Big Plan Stočarje-Veterinary Centre" in the Great Plan, which, in the case of the number of workers by 30, means the solution is determined to bring down the reduction to 23 workers i.e. 23%. The same question I referred to the Minister of Agriculture and received an answer without a single answer to this question forced me to ask the Prime Minister the question. To clarify and facilitate Mr. Prime Minister's answer to this question, I would point out that the "Stočaro-Veterinary Centre for Reproductive and Artificial Insemination" in the Great Plana is the largest centre in Serbia and that, annually, it is about 300,000 doses of semen that separates cows throughout Serbia. The genetic progress that exists is primarily due to this institution, that it also operates by international regulations that predict what all such institutions must have, the EU regulation 88407, in order to be able to function. All of this is not taken into account, and it is lightly stated that the number of people is reduced by 23 which seriously endangers the production, i.e. the work of one in the European proportions of a well-known institution that has a strategic partnership with an adequate institution called the "Repeal and Insemination Centre in Germany" and negotiations, i.e. contracts with Russia on the supply of genetic material. To explain his repeated question and ask for reason in response, I will note that two other institutions of the same type that exist in this country have not suffered any reduction. When we know that it is 30 workers and that it is due to be reduced to 23, while these seven are being paid neatly in contributions and taxes because it is a public enterprise whose founder is the Republic of Serbia but not a budgetary firm and it is an organisation that does not even have a budget account, the reduction of the number of workers also reduces the revenues of the state that it has on the basis of taxes and contributions to personal income. I would like to point out that 10 million dinars are paid on a yearly basis in the name of taxes and contributions from this company with 30 workers. I believe that an oversight has been made at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, by its response to the definition of a public enterprise, has shown in fact that it does not want and has no interest that one of these institutions is an example for many others throughout Europe, that it has no interest that it exists further, but that this opportunity should be given to someone who would come from the side and who would violate the genetic quality and genetic resource that is measured by the amount of 1,200,000 doses, 240 different genetically tested individuals. I'm saying this in more detail for the reasons I believe and I'm sure that I'm being listened to by an expert establishment who will know what this means. This would mean that the future, Serbia's livestock, would be left to someone else. I ask the Prime Minister to reconsider and to answer this question using certainly and suggestions from the Ministry of Local Self-Government, i.e. Ms. Minister Kori Udovici and Mr. Vujovic's finance minister with whom I conducted the talks and who expressed their disbelievement and suspicion that something like this could have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47796	The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović. Sign in again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47797	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear People's MPs, I believe that the question I am about to ask has general social significance, which is why I have decided to refer it to the President of the Republic, the President of the Serbian Government, saying that the defence ministry will be included in the response. Namely, the president of the Union of Reserve Military Elders of the Republic of Serbia addressed me with a question written on the way, stating that the Alliance is about to be shut down because of the unresolved financing issue and unclear roles in the defence system. In addition, the memo states that the organisation was founded in 1919 on the anniversary of the Thessaloniki front breakthrough, so that the date would never be forgotten. That glorious victory was won by the Serb army, which was then made by 80 per cent by reserve officers, reserve officers and reserves. The first president was Duke Stepanovic, who is also the basis of an articulating need for a wider population that understands the obligation, has the knowledge and skills of the need to defend the country. By donation of a Belgrade resident, the organisation has received a salary at which his Majesty, King Alexander, ruled by his Majesty, personally, has built a building that was then nationalised, has been used for the last decades as the House of the Army in Belgrade. It believes that the survival of an organisation whose potential represents positive social values, above all, patriotism, as well as the knowledge and experience of its members, in the affairs of the country's defence, is one of the most important issues directly affecting the defence of our country's capabilities, and whose centenary, can contribute significantly, both to the country's reputation and to the removal of the unjust anthema of genocide where we are exposed as a people. The Alliance's 2008 organisational changes were translated into a non-governmental sector from the defence ministry's jurisdiction, and statusally leveled with all other NGOs, regardless of the area of action and the way of funding. The Alliance's annual financial needs are about five million dinars, and these funds have been provided until then, that is, from the Republic of Serbia's budget until 2013. From the contradiction of the position of the Alliance, which, on the one hand, because of its social function, has been declared an organisation of particular importance for the defence of the country and the corresponding decision of the Government of Serbia, while on the other hand, the possibility of the state funding its existence, and thus the social role mentioned, unequivocally results in no clear vision, but no desire to find an answer to the question whether this Alliance as a form of organisation of a state-wide defence society needs, or whether it is a matter of its members, whether the said function in the area of defence preparations can be realised by any NGO at all, so it was also this Alliance and what consequences might be, having, financing such functions, devoid of national interests. Experiences from the environment suggest that all countries are of great importance to this issue and have found an appropriate solution to its functioning. Hence, my question is very simple, two questions, regarding this problem, whether you believe that the Union of Reserve Military Elders has a significant place and a role in creating the defence capacity of our country and that it should exist. Secondly, if your position is previously positive, do you think the Alliance should be directed and financed by the state or are those issues in the exclusive jurisdiction of its members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47798	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47799	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, as a National MP from Nis, on behalf of the citizens of Nis and Nis bathe, I would like to ask Minister of Trade and Tourism Rasim Ljajic. Namely, this was not the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia that included Niška Banja in the list of tourist resorts where people who receive incentives to develop tourism in Serbia could fly. Namely, the information that Niška Banja is not in the list of tourist resorts, in a list of 230 destinations in Serbia, it has astounded Nišli and the citizens of Niška Banja. Namely, Niška spa without tourists has no open pool, now it has run out of vouchers that gave some chance to develop tourism in Niška Banja. Dearly beloved, Niška Banja is one of the most famous spas in the former Yugoslavia and many songs have been sung about Niška Banja. I don't know any national MP or Serbian citizens that haven't heard the song "Niška Banja", and the current Ministry of Trade and Tourism has erased Niško Banju from the list of destinations where Serbian citizens could be treated, where they could come on vacation. That is not how tourism is encouraged, because a spa that is famous and which is good medicine is practically ignored and puts out of the list the priorities of the current ministry. I want to tell you that the planned subsidies given to Serbian citizens in the "Fly in Serbia" action is a good thing for me and we should see our resorts, our resorts but we are very confused in Nis and Nisko Banja, why the current ministry did not put Nisko Banje in the list of priorities. Why do these open swimming pools now from Arena come to Niška Banja, but they have to go to Vranjska Banja, where there is an Olympic outdoor pool. There's no bathroom. Let's go if we want regional development, then why don't we give Niski Bani the opportunity to get some incentive funds and try to get organized to encourage, to develop the spa. I would understand that previous governments have also invested in Niška Banja, but I am telling you that no government since the 1990s has seriously worked on the development of tourism in Niško Banja and I object. I want to tell you, and members of the government that the hot water in Niška Banja is still warm, that it is still beautiful, healing and that the citizens of Serbia still love Niška Banja. That is why I call on you to change the bad decision by erasing Niška Banja from the 230 list of destinations in Serbia, where the Republic government gives 5,000 dinars of vouchers for the promotion of tourism and for Niška Banja to take its rightful place on the list of priorities, the current Ministry of Trade and Tourism and the current Republic Government. The second question I want to ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, about the parent-teacher law. In fact, it is known that two years ago, 60,000 citizens of Vojvodina supported the adoption of laws by a parent-teacher for children who are distracted in development, for children who are tied to a wheelchair, for children who cannot help their parents to function without help, that through this law, through this legal solution, they allow the parent to get working status and get financial resources, wages, so that he can have much more dignity to care for his child. I want to tell you that a few days ago, and Montenegro, has passed this law, that the Republic of Croatia already has it, and I call on all the MPs to understand the necessity of the adoption of the law of the parent-in-law, and I commit myself as a member of the Parliament, whether in this assembly, whether in the next term, whether or not he was a national MP, I will stand up and fight together with the parents who are looking for justified demands, and that is to acknowledge them the possibility, to have a job experience and to have some salary while they are guarding their children who are severely ill and in a wheelchair. Who better to protect their child than a parent and allow them to have the right to do so in a human way. For the last 30 seconds, I will take the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity since Mr. Rasim Ljajic, the minister whom I highly respect, repeat, on behalf of the citizens of Nis and Nisski Banja, correct the mistake, return the Nisko Banja, the pearl of tourism, where many of the prominent figures flew, where our king flew, where many diseases are being treated, rheumatical and cardiovascular, is no longer as representative as it was before.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47800	Thank you. We'll give, if you agree with the possibility of a minister, since he's here to tell you not to wait in writing, can he?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47801	You got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47802	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47803	While I was waiting for your presentation, it is true that in the last regulation on vouchers Niška Banja was excluded because we actually had four cities excluded from the possibility that citizens could use vouchers. So, Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, because that's how we wanted to speed up tourism in other tourist destinations in the country. The majority of tourists usually come to Belgrade, and there is real concern that most tourists would use vouchers to stay in Belgrade. However, we saw that there was interest in Nisa Banja, that there was interest in Selters Banja, which was also exceptional and we returned these two spas this year, so Selters spanja in Mladenov and Nisko Banja, so that citizens will be able to use vouchers and stay in Nisko Banja.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47804	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. I'm sorry, Nejko Jovanovic answered, and he's looking as a smaller parliamentary group, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47805	I would like to thank the President. Dear Ministers, respected fellow MPs, on 10 December of last 2015, I asked the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia which I have not yet received an answer to, and the rehabilitation hearing Milan Nedic is approaching, as far as I am informed, it is early in February. The answer to the question that was very clear – how to get in the way of the reincarnation of evil, we have not yet received. What the SPS is looking for and all the time in that fact persists is that it's time for everything that involves anti-civilization movements, which means subjugation, putting into a slave position, extermination of peoples and nations, to be condemned. By contrast, we experience that fascism is rehabilitated, that all the misdemeanors committed during the period of government and that of the Serbian governments headed by Milan Nedic are rehabilitated. How do you explain to many who have left in their ancestors the sacrifice? How to explain to many that today there is an expression of anti-civilisation fluid through, so to speak, God forbid. The Rehabilitation Act undoubtedly has a lot of indetermination, a lot of shortcomings that need to be corrected. How do you explain to the Jews how to explain to the Jewish community whose victims during World War II are immeasurably numerous? How do you explain that just between 1941 and 1945, when the government's work symbol was among other things "souls"? What are “souls ”? Special transport vehicles, mostly Jews, in cases that were hermetically closed, where the exhaust gas from that vehicle's engine were injected directly or broadcast into that mailbox where there were a large number of people who didn't make it to a concentration camp in the Lambs? Countless numbers of victims from that period, patriotism, patriotism, no matter what movement they belonged to, but most communists, were killed because of the co-operationist relationship of the government of Milan Nedic with the occupier, or fascists. Will we leave a negative mark in this way and cause negative consequences for the world, according to all nations whose nations fought against fascism, in which people's liberation movements had great sacrifices? How do we explain that we may be, perhaps, the only country in Europe, and even the world, that rehabilitates those who co-operated with the fascist German force and its associates? How, after, God forbid, do judgments, do whatever it takes to correct mistakes? Whether it will be allowed in any way to make the historical fact, and the historical fact, whether historians were in college or not about Milan Nedic's personality, will all agree in one, that Milan Nedic was an associate of the German fascist force. That fact cannot be doubted. No one has brought her into doubt so far, no one will doubt her from now on, but that fact has obviously not yet awakened awareness that she must stand in the way of something that can be a lie for the state of Serbia, for the Serb people who are primarily free people, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what nationality and nationality they belong to, who fought for freedom, whose ancestors fought for freedom, who see freedom as liquids, which freedom see as great value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47806	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47807	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I ask a parliamentary question to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but also to the competent authorities of the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, and this is a very disturbing text published several days ago in Vecernji Novosti. So, January 21st of this year, entitled that Vračar municipality had employed beyond the employment ban. So, at the post of assistant president of the municipality, there were 40 people who were then relocated to another workplace. The extraordinary control of the budget inspection department of the Ministry of Finance found that Vracar City Municipality employs as many as 40 people over the previous two years, despite the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation, or banning further employment in the public sector. Irregularities have been discovered in several other city municipalities. Look at the case, it's mostly municipalities where the government does what's left of the DS. It has been established that as many as 40 persons have been replaced at the post of assistant president of Vračar Municipality, and I will remind you that on several occasions we have pointed to this abuse and from this assembly pay phone, in the form of a parliamentary issue. Twenty-seven of them were employed in such a way that they were appointed to a permanent post, so the post of assistant president of the Vracar municipality, and soon after that they were relieved of those duties, so that according to the law on working relations in state authorities they could be deployed to other jobs and set up a permanent working relationship beyond the ban. According to this principle, the new officials with a middle or lower even professional background than the right-hand man of the town's municipality, from the post of assistants of the Vracar municipality, arrived at the workplace as accountants and couriers. Among the irregularities, it is also stated that one contract for a certain period of time from one year in marketing at the Sport-Recreative Centre Vračar was converted into a permanent working relationship after the end. Now, a member of the Municipal Council, who, by the way, is the chairman of the DS Municipal Committee, Bogdan Tatic, says there have never been more than three assistants, nor have they been given compensation, and I ask you – how can we trust them now? How can we trust them to tell the truth now that they're defending themselves like this? How can we trust them when all these months and years they've come up with the most monstrous inventions and the most hopeless lies? The whole DS policy has come down to a lie. Every day there's a new imaginary affair, every day a new lie, and when it's found that they haven't been telling the truth, there's no apology, there's no question of responsibility for it, but a new lie pushes the old one. First they invented that bug affair, and it turns out it wasn't true or nothing. Well, then they used that unfortunate Horn to falsely accuse the prime minister of falsely accusing Vukic, so it was proven he got the money for it. And, again, nothing and again silence. So they tried very awkwardly to agree that Vukic had traveled somewhere for a new year, whether in Dubai or not, so it was found that man had not left our country at all. It was even found that he was at work at the time. That Mr. Pitiæ doesn't know where his job is, which doesn't occur to him to do his job, so we're not all the same. Well, then the affair about printing those graphites "death of Pajtic" or whatever it was, and then the investigation found that a member of the DS wrote those graphites, and yet nothing. We move on, no apologies, no responsibilities, all the way to this last lie from a few days ago that they shared some tickets, some tickets to some water polo match, not some, but a water polo match very important. Well, then it turns out it wasn't true. So how are we supposed to trust DS representatives now that their entire party's policy is based on a lie? I ask the Ministry of State Administration – what will they do about, again, the very disturbing text? I remind you that, as did the parliamentary group, but also the SNS committee group, we have repeatedly pointed to abuses and irregularities in work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47808	Thank you. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Zarko Obradovic, Djordje Cabarkapa and Borisav Kovacevic. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the draft law on advertising. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Dr Rasim Ljajic, as well as his co-workers from the Ministry. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. I remind you that MP Miran Petric has written his amendments to Articles 5, 24 and 46. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the amendment law, MPs of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Vesna Marijanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47809	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, the honourable ministers, we have submitted 23 amendments, and of which a large number of amendments have been adopted, I think even 17, I would say, two key amendments, or one joint amendment concerning political and state advertising, a fundamental amendment that quite changes this law to better and a series of amendments concerning the protection of children and minors from inappropriate advertising. These are the amendments you've accepted, and now I believe we have a much better law on the agenda. As for Article 1, he defines the subject of advertising. We added that in addition to the specific advertising rules, direct advertising, sponsorship, protection and surveillance rights, the subject of advertising will be the subject of the advertising message, more specifically, the message that is sent is simply defined in the case of the law, this name, for two reasons. One is because de facto law deals with the content of advertising messages in several members. The other thing is that he, I'd say, doesn't affect freedom of advertising, doesn't lift anyone's right to advertise, but when you define a member like this, then you can influence the ban on discrimination, to ban inappropriate advertising. This amendment is, I would say, and adopted by adopting the amendment of the ruling majority. However, he is in the same text. Now, I don't know, you've adopted many amendments that are in the same text in some spirit of parliamentaryism and strengthening this parliamentary discourse, and you could have accepted this amendment by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47810	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47811	You're absolutely right. We have accepted this amendment. We really didn't see what the MP groups were. It is essentially the same as the amendment we have accepted, which is a proposal not by the ruling majority, but by the Economic Cocus, where they are representatives of several political parties. Therefore, absolutely everything you have stated in your explanation is contained in the amendment that has been submitted, which we have accepted. He's in the same text, except for the change of order in the sentence, there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47812	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 3rd amendment in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, and together Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac, together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47813	Your Honor, this is one of the key amendments you accepted. In fact, it is now a condition that this law is actually called the Law on Advertising, because before this amendment he only regulated commercial advertising, he did not include or only with two members who explained this matter and defined this matter. In fact, now with this amendment, the law very clearly defines both political advertising and state advertising, and you will agree, it was a matter of corruption, it was a synergy of the possible political influence on the media, and it was important that you adopt this amendment. You adopted it, and I think there's a condition for us to support this law precisely because of this amendment, but also because of a series of other amendments you've adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47814	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after Article 5a, was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, and together Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac, together submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 7th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47815	Thank you. Madam Chairman, distinguished ministers, respected guests, colleagues and colleagues, Article 7 speaks about the ban on advertising of certain persons, goods services and activities. In paragraph 1, you have proposed a member to read: “Advertising by persons who do not have the property of a trader in accordance with regulations and who regulate trade is prohibited.” We added to this attitude 1 and said: “except in cases where this law is allowed. ” We have done this alignment with the proposal of our amendment to Article 3 that you have refused, but I hope this supplementation of the sentence is meaningful and that it explains the interpretation and function of this law, and I ask you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47816	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47817	This amendment has a similar requirement which has already been accepted in Amendment 5, so I think we have achieved what you have requested by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47818	Thank you. MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 11th amendment together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honored President of the National Assembly of Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Ljajic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, have submitted an amendment to Article 11 of this Bill and I ask you, the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, that the device for mathematical operations measures five amendments minutes, because I would like to discuss this amendment, which is the first amendment of nine how many we have submitted to the proposal of the Law on Advertising and the Proposal for a Law on Information Security, to give one kind of guidance and introduction to our debate on our amendments, Minister Ljajic. So, gentlemen, we have submitted a total of nine amendments to these two draft laws. Four amendments have been accepted since the nine amendments were submitted. That, Minister Ljajic, for us, here to inform you, means that in the overall near of this year and nine months, as we have been working in this assembly of the National Assembly, gentlemen, since 1947 the amendments submitted have been accepted, along with these four, 185 amendments of the People's MPs of the New Party. Minister Ljajic, since you are engaged in your portfolio and in trade and tourism, take care of the rules, some of them are important to you. When transferred to percentages, it stands out, Minister Ljajic, 9.5% of the amendments accepted, and by analogies I make 9.5% of the support of citizens to the New Party in the next extraordinary parliamentary elections, Mr Ljajic. That, Minister Ljajic, as far as I can tell, is more support than your party has, for example. at this point, and also more support than other SNS coalition partners have. For me, Mr. Ljajic, that's a big score. A good starting position for the New Party's extraordinary parliamentary elections. Dear gentlemen, I would now like to point out an additional argument for this amendment of ours, since, Minister Ljajic, the amendment to Article 11, is not one of these four accepted amendments that we, MPs, have submitted to the New Party. I will try to convince you once again, your associates and associates and, of course, my fellow MPs and MPs why I still think this amendment should be accepted. Article 11 concerning misleading advertising and the prohibition of misleading advertising states the following, paragraph 1. – misleading advertising is forbidden and now attitude 2, which is key to us, says like this, watch out for respected gentlemen, watch what it says – misleading advertising is every advertising that in any way, therefore in any way, including a way of showing deceives or is likely to deceive the recipients of an ad message that, due to such a misleading nature, can affect their economic behaviour. Our proposal was to exclude this word "economic behaviour", because we felt that there were a number of indirect possible impacts on the one who received the message, and where these indirect influences could lead to the end, to deception in terms of their economic behaviour, so we only suggested that the term "economic" be eliminated and that it remain "behaving". The minister answered us precisely, and it's time to say it here. It says this - we cannot accept this amendment because the bill provides for protection against misleading advertising of goods or services affecting consumers' economic behaviour, which means making a decision on buying goods or not. Minister Ljajic, one example I will now give you in an attempt to convince you of the acceptance of this amendment, so if you do offer an argument that our example is not enough to accept, I will accept the refusal of the amendment. For example, we're, I mean, all of us here are confronted and there's a series of so-called. Auxiliaries which are not subject to any advertising ban, gentlemen. When we hear a message that, for example, some kind of adjudicating drug can affect the fact that if a man, in case he uses this auxiliary drug to heal something better, that he might be able to cure something a little bit, and then conclude, gentlemen, that this auxiliary drug can't be done, it's concluded that it's a misleading advertising, and then I ask myself, Minister Ljajic, whether this example falls under economic behavior, because the man who listens, so he hears, so he knows someone who knows someone else, so he knows that he has this problem, so thinks - this auxiliary drug can help him, so he can pass it on, so it goes from one to the other, third? That first man will not only be deceived in economic terms, in terms of buying the goods, but he will then continue to influence other people to buy it, for example. I believe that the accuracy of this law will not go away if we eliminate the word "economically" and that it remains only "behavior", because it is precisely the opposite of that that we will further specify and tell people, not only that we are interested in having someone deceive you in terms of economic behaviour, but that we are interested in whether you are being deceived by someone and in terms of whether a very auxiliary drug can in a certain way influence or not. If we conclude that he can't, gentlemen, what is it, but misleading advertising? It seems to me, Minister Ljajic, I have read a few times, consulted a little, that nothing of this law will take away the quality of the content, of precision, of the existence of really respecting the rule of law that is present, unless we limit ourselves to "economic behaviour" but to "behaving". I have a concrete example, where it seems, that yet the misleading message concerns something beyond economic behavior. I'm interested in your argument. If you offer a better one, I always respect the power of argument, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47820	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47821	Mr. Pavicevic, we have accepted your four amendments. That means you have over 40, close to 50%, as far as this law is concerned, and that's enough. As far as this amendment is concerned, what the arguments are, very briefly. The first is that this provision has literally been transposed by the EU Directive on misleading and comparative advertising. Literally, a definition of what advertising is. Another argument is that we also use the term "economic behaviour" in the Consumer Protection Act. The third argument, what you were talking about, is contained in Article 58 of this Act, where advertising containing claims of health, medicine or nutritional property of goods or services, which is advertised, health or declaration of nutrition, must be based on an appropriate scientific or professional finding, i.e. such a property, or declarations must be confirmed and approved in accordance with specific regulations. So all this stuff you're talking about is contained in this 58th term.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47822	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Milisavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47823	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, guests from the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, colleagues and fellow MPs, this law will finally regulate some things that I think have been very serious in Serbian society, which is, as Pavicevic pointed out, advertising certain medicines, advertising some things that certain drug dealers have declared to be medicinal products and thus not only lead to the economic delusion of our citizens, our consumers, what is far more dangerous, have put our citizens at risk to worsen their children's health or themselves. So, as a doctor, I warn the Ministry of Yours, yes, along with the Ministry of Health, follow all ads, not only on national televisions but also on local, regional televisions to monitor the Internet and social networks, Facebook and Twitter, where drug users are advertised using this uncontrollable but very powerful means of advertising, as those with certain melanomas cure cancer, as with certain melanomas treat leukemia, as with certain teas cure cancer. These are my dear colleagues, very dangerous things because many Serbian citizens believed these ads and left official medicine, gave themselves to these drug dealers, and this is punishable under many laws of the Republic of Serbia. And according to Criminal Law, according to the Law on Narcotics, but also to this public advertising where we have to sanction all attempts to verify this drug that is advertised through funds, especially national houses and national televisions, and not to invite people who do not have a doctor's license in the Republic of Serbia or who act against official positions of the doctoral chamber, human medicine and our determined health ministry. These are the things that would protect the citizens of Serbia with this law, and I can tell you that you have more and more advertising and more people are whispering -- and this melem has cured me, and this melem is good. Citizens of Serbia, there is no better treatment for cancers, for tumours than official medicine. I, as a doctor and as a People's MP, invite you not to trust the drug lords, not to trust the hohstapplers who use your disease, your torment, with these ads to get you to spend money, but what's worse, to disrupt your health and to lose the battle with your illness in many situations. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47824	Thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47825	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, listening to my fellow amendment promoter, I realized we don't have a better representative who can explain to us what misleading advertising is. Imagine when someone by advertising used parts wants to make a new car. Imagine when one of the used politicians wants to create a new organization by advertising. So I believe it was very appropriate that the amendment promoter presents to us what is misleading, false advertising, or presenting through advertising. Also, when it comes to percentages that are often mentioned, there is no better example of how people's masses spread, how our citizens try to be deceived and how. I believe that, when percentages are at stake, that my fellow farmer, the head of that organisation, will be able to get the strength to go to the polls alone and that this organization that calls itself new or not knows how to present itself to voters, not only advertising here false percentages, but that it has a foothold in the electoral body that they will go out on their own to the elections, to expose themselves to voters, to their will, the voice of the people is the voice of God. Me who went out five to six times in the election, I know it best. My best score is 72,000 votes in 2003. I have had a series of worse results, and I believe that my colleague, the promoter of this amendment and my fellow farmer, will have the strength to check himself in the electoral body, and, since some of them have also doctored on the theory that representatives in the centre have to be exposed occasionally to the will of the voters, to determine that they have the support to manage the state, whether through executive power, whether through legislative authority. Anyway, that theory is based on the fact that those in the centre should be checked with voters. I believe that since he's already reported his percentage, in practice, not only in theory, he'll try to confirm it. Also among misleading advertising can be the advertising of fake wineries, which have not produced wine at all. It was just a reason to get a boost from the state, and they never produced a single drop, that they didn't produce as much as it takes to honor the priest, and I think we can call it misleading advertising, because it's the state and how expensive she paid. When someone claims that his wine is during some inauguration or government election, etc. served, it's also misleading advertising, so I don't think there was a better example of someone showing us with a lot of words what really political deception is, or misleading advertising as it says in this article and in this amendment. There is a folk saying, “Where the mouth is full of words, there is no bread, ” and it seems no wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47826	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47827	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, we have discussed a lot of this, all the amendments that have been accepted. I would like to thank this opportunity and the Minister for having the understanding not only of the members of the Committee, but also of the representatives of all the parties making up the economic cocus, to accept this number of amendments, which essentially showed that, simply in this political dialogue, there is really some proposal for a law that the opposition will also be pleased and support and vote for it. That's what's good. When we speak specifically of an amendment to Article 11 that speaks of false representation, it speaks of misleading advertising that is strictly prohibited by Article 11 then it should be said that the amendment promoter has gone too far into one, as I would say, part of the advertising area exclusively relating to certain preparations in the medical domain. When we talk about them, somewhere I think the promoter forgot that all those preparations coming out of the market must have certain declarations, permits. Without such declarations in which it is specified exactly what it is used for, exclusive purposes, it cannot be placed on the market. That's one thing. On the other hand, you have also stated in this law in subsequent amendments that these declarations will have to be an integral part of advertising. So I think that this amendment, if you look at it so closely only through the section relating to medical, or auxiliary preparations, simply doesn't stand. When we talk about false advertising, we have to look at the economic behavior that actually represents consumers in the part where they choose to buy something. That's why it's called economic behavior. Every other behavior is the subject of some other law. And she's being sanctioned somewhere, we've had in the past set of laws of conduct that apply to both begging, divining, prophesying. So you can't cover everything with one law. You must in every law state exactly what you mean. This is exactly what you listed as economic behavior. If there'd always been marketing in the last century on the preparation, especially herbal tea, it was now, and it always will. Therefore, we cannot prevent it, but we can prevent those who do not have a licence, who do not have a declaration, who falsely present themselves with their preparations to treat what they do not cure. That's where I think we're all in agreement and there's really no one against it. That's why it's not good to accept a amendment like this. When we talk about false representation, I finally have to say that politics is not mathematics, because if you take into account that 33 "cocus" amendments are accepted from 84, then you go out to about 37%, which is of course not a real picture of any political events or representations, and how much of who supports who in the political sense we'll have opportunities already in the next election we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47828	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47829	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I really think it was the last moment to get into this story with regulation of this matter because advertising and public deception, and especially the patients, I think, have recently received a disturbing situation. From what my colleagues have previously said to me that it is being earned, in the extreme instance it is being earned by selling a medicinal product that has been so baptized by the manufacturer, and before that it has not passed official medical checks, and by trying to say to various ads that you have one cure for all kinds of coughs. The case works, I happen to be a pulmologist, so it gets in my eyes. If you know of one single entity in cough medicine, you can have dozens of reasons, and you only have one cure that heals all these guys, you immediately entered a story like that. At the very least, of course, inserted into the amendment term -- economically or not, it all comes down to economics. So I don't think there's gonna be any damage if it doesn't get thrown out, if it stays the way it is now defined. But it is indeed something that is good and at this point necessary to protect our fellow citizens, and especially patients from false advertising and deception, even if it is not false if it is half-true, it harms both patients and the economy of a country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47830	Thank you. Members of the 12th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47831	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only accepted amendment I'm going to discuss. So, the remaining three amendments I will leave behind for the day for the vote when I will be very pleased, gentlemen, which also the Members of the SNS will vote in favour of this bill as a whole, Minister Ljajic, to vote for the amendment that we MPs of the New Party have tabled. It's for me, I must tell you, a great pleasure here as one of the people's MPs who is committed here and to legislative work, and this function of the Assembly concerning the control of the functioning of the executive government. And I'd like to make one note here. I noticed, above all, that when someone appears on behalf of the executive government, so accept their amendment, Minister Ljajic, then they report that they thank the Minister, the Executive Authority. I believe, gentlemen, that this is not appropriate, because it is not the job of a member of the Parliament to thank the minister. The obligation, I think, is for the minister, whom we choose here in the National Assembly, that when a national MP, as I have done, Mr Babić, on amendments to Article 12, submits an amendment that contributes to the accuracy of the law, which binds this law to the rule of law even more strongly, that when the minister comes, he says in his first words – thank you, MP, in this case Mr Pavicevic, for contributing to the legislative project that I have prepared, he proposes to be more contentually better, linguistically precise, in line with the rule of law. This would be appropriate, gentlemen, in the conditions of the existence of a consolidated, modern, democratic state, and not for MPs to thank ministers for accepting our amendments. It's not in democracy, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47832	I thank Mr Pavicevic for accepting your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47833	Thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47834	Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47835	Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced earlier that I will not discuss the amendments that have been accepted, but I still have a few amendments that have not been accepted and I respect, for example. This argument I have now heard about the economic behaviour of people who listen to a message that can be misleading, but it seems to me, Minister Ljajic, for example, that in Article 13, we have a pile of words and sentences, which is never good for a legislative project. For example, in Article 13(3), the application of the recognition mark excludes covert advertising in a specific situation. It seems to us that this is by default, that it has already been entered into the contents of this bill and that if we were to delete this position so that nothing else would change in this legislative project. What we believe is that the rule of law is also the principle of our state, so our Constitution in Article 3 writes fine – the rule of law is the premise of the Constitution, the rule of law is realised by the obedience of the Constitution and the law. These laws should not be abundant in words and sentences that are too high. A bunch of words can only harm what is the quality of the law. If this attitude remains, nothing special will change, except that someone will read a little bit more text, but it is better when the laws and a little more concise, I think, and the Constitution is said, Mr. Ljajic, that sometimes the constitution should also be retailed in pocket format, that a citizen can put it, take it with him, to remind himself, and even laws. We don't have to pile up any words. Anything that is too high to be erased, and what contributes to precision, of course, remains there. It seems to us that this attitude 3 is too high, so if you think there's an argument to stay, I'll appreciate it if I hear that kind of argument. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47836	Thank you. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47837	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and the ZS submitted a total of 18 amendments to this bill. This is one of those 18 amendments and refers to Article 15, which regulates the use of personal good in advertising. In Article 15, paragraph 2, the concept of personal good is defined as personal data, personal record, voice sound recording and spoken words of a specific natural person, and the recording of a person who can be a photographic, cartoon and film video and a digital record. We felt that this definition had to be complemented by the fact that the record could be graphic and that the definition would be completed and that the application of this law gave better results. I can express my satisfaction that the government had an understanding and that it had accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47838	Thank you. Parliamentarians Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinkovic, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic submitted the 15th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Did I agree on Article 15 that... ? No, I don't. ) To Article 15. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. You want a word? The National MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47839	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment of ours, as well as the amendment to Article 1, so it is essentially adopted by adopting the same amendment to the ruling majority. So, because of the public, what's going on here, you're defining as a member of 18 the use of state symbols, flags, coat of arms and anthem. But you did not define in the article that it was the national symbols of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that this can be understood, knowing that this is the law of the Republic of Serbia, but if you do not accept this amendment our amendment, but well, you have adopted the amendment of the majority, I am afraid, you will correct me if I am wrong, so that in that case it would be impossible to use international state symbols, as well as international organisations. So, this amendment, as well as colleagues whose amendment was accepted, defined that it was the national symbols of the Republic of Serbia and thus allowed the use of state symbols of other states and international organisations, of course, provided that the use of their symbols, as well as ours, is in a way that is worthy of our country, is not offensive. So I believe you've done a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47840	Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia submitted to the 19th amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47841	Thank you, Madam President. We have also submitted an amendment to Article 19 which regulates what the ad declaration is and, in addition to the definition, in paragraph 3 says – a notice declaration, with the information set out in Article 1, the advertiser and the advertiser keep the advertising message during the duration of the advertising to which it refers and 30 days from the termination of that advertising. We proposed, by amendment, that instead of the point at the end of this sentence that I read be placed and stuck and added words - that is 120 days in case of advertising of political organisations. The amendment is partly in line with our amendment to Article 3 which we have proposed that certain provisions of this law be applied to political organisations, given that political parties have an obligation to submit a report on campaign costs to the Anti-Corruption Agency within 30 days of the end of the election, when the practical completion and advertising takes place, and it is necessary to extend the deadline for keeping the ad declaration for the purpose of control of the report. That is why I propose, especially when the elections are ahead and what will be the current advertising of political organisations, to reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47842	Thank you. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinovi, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. Does he want a word? (No) National MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In Part III, heading 1, the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In Part III, heading 1, the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members 21st and Article 21st of the amendment, together with a correction, the MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićev submitted. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47843	The objective of the amendment is to consistently implement what is written in Article 12, and that amendment has been adopted, and this is about the methodology of writing the law. Here we are asking that Article 21 and Article 22 only replace the place in the same text because the article, as is now foreseen, first define the penalties for the protection of minors from non-transparent advertising, and only in the 22nd term define what it is. I don't think there's any problem and that's totally logical. The amendment was rejected because it was technically incorrect, so I'm interested in what's technically wrong with that amendment? Of course, I'm calling for you to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47844	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47845	The only reason this amendment has not been accepted is because then we would have to change the amendments after the 22nd amendment also concerning the protection of children. If we change the amendment from 22 to 21 and 21 to 22, and the provisions of the 22 members refer to child protection, therefore, we have to change almost a whole chapter, purely technical matter. So you're in principle probably right, but because of these problems that could cause us to apply this amendment, we couldn't accept it. (Zoran Zivkovic: You can do this in technical order, to replace only the name of the member. You can't? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47846	Okay. Members of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDP – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia, submitted together the 21st amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47847	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 21 by adding a new point, which reads - other products and procedures intended for treatment and health treatments, which are not covered by point 4 of this item, in paragraph 4. For the sake of citizens, Article 21 speaks – advertising messages must not contain, so what should not contain an ad – that contains a display of minors in a dangerous situation, directly invites a minor to buy goods, encourages a minor to behave that can harm them, etc. We have added this point 5), because we believe that it is also necessary to prescribe a ban on the broadcasting of advertising messages and TV sales recommended by other products and procedures intended for treatment and medical treatments not covered by point 4 which say that products cannot be advertised for weight loss and treatment procedures, institutions providing such services, medicines, medical products and childcare supplements. These are, for example, various preparations that are said to be based on plant-based, absolutely and innocuous, treatment of colds, strengthening of the body, and general health conditions. These messages would be contrary to the rule that the development and health of children takes place through healthy nutrition, physical activity, and for this reason we gave this addition to Article 21.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47848	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the name above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miloslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodana Homen and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 24th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 25th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 26th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac together. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47849	Dear Ministers, this amendment is a consequence, i.e. a whole series of amendments, are in fact the consequences of the accepted amendment to Chapter 21 concerning the protection of children from inappropriate advertising. So, you've adopted, I think, 15 DS amendments on child protection against inappropriate advertising. I think we did a great thing together. But why do I think it was very important to specify all these members that concern exactly the topic I'm talking about right now? In fact, it is a broad term, a minor is defined both by our regulatory and international regulations in different ways. You predicted, in fact, Article 21 predicted that the chapter was called “Protecting minors from inappropriate advertising.” We have defined this amendment that changes everyone else, I think 15 members, to be called "A special rule on the protection of children and minors". Namely, UNICEF, for example, defines several periods of development: the youngest years up to six, mid-years to 14 and older adolescence after 14. Our regulation even defines differently what is younger adolescence and what is older adolescence. Our Criminal Code defines children until the age of 14, older adolescence over 14, or turned 14, not 18. All in the sense that we define this law well, we have submitted an amendment to be very precise, not only to protect minors, for several reasons. Because he's a minor at 17 and 18. You'll agree, if they have the right to marry, say, to drive certain motor vehicles, they don't need all minors or senior minors protecting against certain advertising. Their mental abilities are to determine what's good, what's good, what's bad, what's good. In that sense, we have very precisely defined who we are actually protecting with this amendment, because it is very important that we be precise in creating a healthy atmosphere for the growth of our children. That is why we have submitted an amendment to Article 21, where we define who we are actually protecting – children and minors, not to apply to all minors and specifically to children. We have also submitted 15 other amendments resulting from the amendment to Article 21. You've adopted everything, so I've already said, this is the second essential amendment. You have also adopted the first one on political and state advertising, so that there is a condition for us to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47850	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go, Mr. Milisavic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47851	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, I absolutely support this amendment and previous amendments aimed at protecting children from wrong advertising. In my previous performance, I was talking about some harmful things that are advertised as drugs, and the previous two MPs mentioned some of the means used for weight loss, which unfortunately not only our children, but also our fellow citizens use to reduce their weight loss. I'm telling you that personally as a doctor, I don't trust these preparations and I invite all people who may have extra pounds and want to reduce their weight, report to public health institutes where there are nutritionists who will determine a regular diet, which will not disrupt health and help them reduce weight. Otherwise, these drug addicts who use the desire of our fellow citizens to have a nicer body, a thin body, to reduce a kilo, with their preparations, create confusion. I'm telling you again as a doctor, they're disrupting the health of our nation and our fellow citizens. I call once again on the Ministry of Health and your Ministry to sanction such people and tell the citizens that such preparations do not help anything, they just take the money away from the citizens and make it worse for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47852	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Ivan Karic and the magistrate Dr Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, Article 26 speaks of advertising in educational and educational institutions, and he originally says: “Advertising in school, preschool institution or other institution intended for minors is not allowed unless it serves to protect the general interest and interests of minors, as well as the educated, educational and sporting activities. ” In part of the sentence, where you say, "as well as the educational" we added the words: "Isuing and cultural, educational and sporting activities", because Article 26. The bill provides that advertising at school, preschool or other institution intended for minors is not allowed unless it serves to protect the general interest and interests of minors, as well as educational, educational and sporting activities. We believe that, in exception to the rules on ban, advertising that is in the function of promotion in reporting and culture should be added, which gives this member full meaning. I think you should accept this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47854	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47855	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this amendment, I think that the formulation given in the bill, and given the previous amendments that have improved this text, is quite enough formulation. So, any extension of this article's formulation opens up the possibility of adding new concepts that might make sense, but it can go on forever and open up the need to add new and new concepts, etc. Of course, then the point is lost and the law is more likely to be interpreted inadequately in certain situations. So this formulation is quite enough, so the concepts of general interest and interests of children and minors in educational, educational and sporting activities are quite enough and they cover everything else. I even think, but I'm not putting that into debate because it's not even proposed by the amendment, that even in sporting activity, it was too much because that segment is certainly part of the educational educational process, educational educational activity, even if it was too much, but I'm not going to plow with it. I would also like to add, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group and on my behalf, that the legislator and the ministry is for every praise, that it has really addressed the issue of child protection and juveniles from public advertising, because in this sphere we have everything and everything and, of course, through what the debate has shown and what amendments are submitted and through this co-operation and improvement of the amendment, we have, therefore, one segment of the law that is very important in the protection of children, in the protection of the psychophysical development of children, and that is indeed for every praise. I wish that both the other spheres on television and in the media would be so cautious and responsible in other areas and segments, in terms of preserving the integrity of children and proper development, as in this case deserves the adoption of such a law, with the result and this debate, any praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47856	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47857	Thank you. So I'll do it again. Article 26 speaks of bans, Mr. Minister. Repeat, advertising at school and preschool or other institution intended for minors is not allowed unless it serves to protect the general interest and interests of minors, as well as educational, educational and sporting activities, we have added – publishing and cultural. Why? Because too many general concepts in the part of the law which is restrictive and which prohibits, give the possibility of different interpretations. I think, and I think you share my opinion, too, that in these members that are restrictive we need to be clear, decoded and reduce the maximum possibility of free interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47858	Thank you. The amendment, which was added after article 26, and a new member of 26a, together was submitted by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47859	We have suggested that after Article 26, a name is added above a new member and a new member of 26a, which reads: “The current application of Article 26a is – special rules on the protection of minors are applied accordingly to minors.” We believe that the provisions on the protection of minors should apply to minors, i.e. persons between 18 and 21 years of age, taking into account that, regardless of the acquisition of full business capacity, these persons should be covered by protective norms, given the specific emotional, physiological, physical and other characteristics and conditions of this category of rights. Similar norms exist in other areas, i.e. In law enforcement, I ask you to reconsider and accept our proposal of a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47860	Thank you. Members of the 27th amendment were jointly tabled by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47861	Article 27 speaks about the work it says – the concept and the kind of advertising in the electronic media. There is that advertising in electronic media is advertising in radio and television software content, as well as in software content available on request through electronic communications networks etc. The next attitude says – advertising in electronic media is done through images with or without sound. Then you say – advertising in electronic media must be clearly recognizable. Then you say – advertising in programmes re-emitting in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the rules on electronic media and provisions of the European Convention on Transboundary Television is only allowed if this advertising is an integral part of the original programme, i.e. if such advertising is not amended or the original programme is terminated, i.e. Interrupted signal flow. We are proposing a new position that says: "It is not considered to be advertising in the electronic media by the presence of representatives of political parties and other political organisations in programmes on current socio-political events, as well as in political-informative programmes where, in accordance with the regulations governing the electoral process, the applicants of the electoral lists, candidates and election programmes are represented." We suggested this for the next reason. The amendment proposes to exempt the activities, actions and entities listed in the amendment from the definition of advertising in the electronic media, with a view to the smooth and legal conduct of the electoral process, which is in line with our amendment to Article 3. A bill of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47862	Thank you. The word is Dr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47863	All these activities are practically excluded in Article 2(2). A bill of this law, so we felt we shouldn't double it, or repeat it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47864	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted together to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47865	Article 28 speaks of product placement. We have suggested that Article 28 paragraph 3 point 2 be deleted and point 4. we also suggest that it be deleted. What's this about? Article 28 says – placing the product is a kind of advertising in electronic media consisting of showing or referring to goods, services, stamps or other markings in the course of software content, so that the presentation or reference is integrated into content and that it forms an integral part of it and in exchange for cash or other compensation. Product placement is prohibited. Exceptionally, from the prohibition set out in Article 2, product placement is allowed: 1) in played films, TV films, played series, sports and entertainment shows, unless intended for children only. We also have a point 2) that we propose to delete – if certain goods or services are shown within the software content as a production prop or reward, which does not seem to be in exchange for financial compensation, but rather goods or services are given up or provided free of charge for their appearance or mention in the course of the programme content. Further, you say in the following position – placing products from item 3 of point 2) of this article, we suggest that it be deleted, banned in the news, programmes on current socio-political events and children's programmes, except in sports news and weather forecasts. Next you say – The Regulatory Body for Electronic Media is closer to regulating the conditions, displaying and referencing the goods, etc. The bill provides for exceptions to the general rules on the prohibition of product placement by allowing the placing of a product if certain goods or services are shown within the software content as a production prop or reward, which does not seem to be in exchange for financial compensation, as you say, but the goods or services are subject to concession or provided free of charge in exchange for their appearance or mention in that programme content. We believe that this proposed solution represents an exceptional risk of corruption, and besides that, it actually opens up the possibility of unfair competition and not market behaviour, so for this reason we have proposed to amend this point, and consequently to delete the position of the 4th member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47866	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47867	All of what you have stated, in all the concerns that there is, of course, is in line with the EU's Audio-visual Media Services Directive, and one reason for the adoption of this law is full harmonisation with directives, or EU standards. One of those directives is the one we talked about, and the other is the Directive on misleading and comparative advertising. It's practically a minimum of harmonisation when we're talking about this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47868	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47869	Your Honor, I would like to take part in this debate to support this proposal, such as the Government's proposal, or the Ministry's proposal, that the amendment itself is not supported for reasons that it also says that this law provides for further regulation of conditions and ways of displaying and referring to certain goods/services, stamps, etc., which shows the obligation of the ministry, which I spoke of in principle, that other sublaws must work in the meantime, which would be more precise. In this part, I'll point to that part. So, that this is one of the obligations that will regulate these things closer, but I personally think that this proposed formulation itself, as in the bill, does not adversely affect consumers, and in this regard we can also support the Government's proposal and the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47870	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miloslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, together submitted the amendments. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which was added after article 30a, was submitted jointly by the MPs Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miloslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petric, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The name of the 31st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade and Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Yes, here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47871	Dear Minister, we, as I said, have submitted 23 amendments or three groups of amendments. Fifteen amendments to the subject I was just talking about protecting children, minors from uninterrupted advertising, you accepted that. The second group of amendments concerns better definitions, i.e. the expansion of the advertising sphere to political advertising and state advertising, and you accepted that. And the third fundamental amendment is precisely this amendment that you have not accepted, and I would say that this amendment narrows down the corruption space. In fact, you have defined television advertising and television sales to the 31st member, so what we have added to this amendment is that prices are published to electronic media advertising and are available to the public via official media websites. I would say a very important amendment, because by accepting that amendment to the expansion of the sphere to political and state advertising, so now the sphere of events is extremely large and it is very important in terms of transparency or full transparency and narrowing down that area of corruption, to publish under which conditions someone rents space on television, on certain channels, on national frequencies, and so we put everyone on public notice. If it is necessary to comply with some other law, we are ready for a technical editorial, because you have answered simply that you did not accept for reasons not the subject of the law, right, here it can now be, so I urge you to reconsider once again that we make this law and television advertising completely transparent by all publishing our pricers so that we know under what conditions when someone makes advertising and TV sales under what conditions it does. So it shouldn't be so easy to reject this amendment, and here you have the opportunity to reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47872	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs to the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47873	I thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens. So, article 33 is talking about broadcasting TV advertising and TV sales between shows or with their interruptions. And you're saying that TV advertising and TV sales are usually broadcast on the block and between individual shows, by uninterrupted broadcasts of multiple advertising messages, or TV sales messages. Now this is very important. First of all, the attitude of the first member of the broadcast of a particular show may be interrupted for the purpose of broadcasting TV advertising, or TV sales, if it does not injure the integrity of the show by having insight into the natural pause, its duration and nature and the rights of the holder of copyright and related rights. The second position we propose to delete, if the conditions set out in Article 3 of this article are met, the broadcast of a feature film, television film, except for played series and documentary series and news shows can be interrupted for television advertising, or TV sales once in each part of the show whose intended duration is at least 30 minutes. The third position we propose to delete – if the conditions set out in Article 3 of this Article are met, the broadcasting of children's emissions may be interrupted for the purpose of broadcasting TV advertising, or TV sales, if the duration of the emissions is planned for more than 30 minutes, and one of each of the total parts of the emissions of which the intended duration is at least 30 minutes. The norms of a bet whose erasure is proposed by this amendment are a textbook example of rules similar to those for too wide an interpretation. We believe that from the point of view of the objectives that should be achieved through the application of this law, these exceptions should not be prescribed, especially when the conditions for these exceptions are undefined, unclear and convenient, as we have already said broad interpretation, and therefore we suggest that these proposals and these three positions, paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 are deleted from Article 33.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47874	Thank you. At the 34th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zolta Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandra Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac, together. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 35th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 36 by MP Srdjan Dragojevic. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 35th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word is a folk letter from Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47875	Thank you. I will also support thanking the Ministry and Mr. Minister for accepting this proposal from our MP Srdjan Dragojevic. It is said in Article 36 that the total duration of TV advertising and TV sales in one full hour of the broadcast programme are not included, so it lists what – the new concept of content in its own programme, side products, directly, why from the programme notification of the sponsor, product placement and so on. The amendment proposed by MP Srdjan Dragojevic added item 9 that also says that advertising does not consider notifications on the products of contemporary cultural and artistic creation and other cultural content financially supported by the ministry responsible for cultural affairs or approved by the National Council for Culture. This is what we think extends the area of cultural influence, extends the area that provides cultural information and the dissemination of cultural content. I think it's a good thing Srdjan Dragojevic himself noticed this and proposed this amendment and we thank the ministry for adopting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47876	Thank you. At the 45th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zolta Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandra Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac, together. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Alexandra Tomic. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47877	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, this proposal of Article 45, in the light of amendments and certain recommendations, we have had from different clusters, but what we have all agreed as MPs here, is that electronic business in general in the domain of electronic trade must be precisely defined. This is exactly the kind of amendment that you've accepted we've tried to come up with complete and different target groups that have been in the form of clusters and filed these demands. I think it's really in a certain way and so on. Internet advertising right here defined in what way and how, and electronic commerce exactly according to the items listed, so thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47878	Thank you, Dr. President. Tomic. Members of the 46th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs gathered together in economic cocus and joint MPs of the DS Group. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr. Dejan Chapo. Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs from the Boris Tadic group. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47879	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Therefore, Article 46 is a special rule in part, given the subject of advertising and says restricting the advertising of alcoholic beverages, you say in Article 46 – advertising of alcoholic beverages including any emphasis on the stamp or other designations of alcoholic beverages is not allowed. Now comes the second part of the member, where you say – allowed to highlight alcoholic beverages, i.e. the stamp or other mark of alcoholic beverages, at the point of sale, the publication as well as the delivery of each individual, the designated adult person who previously gave consent to this, the information on the quality and other properties of alcoholic beverages at the point of sale, the fair stand, in professional books, magazines and other professional publications intended exclusively for manufacturers or sellers of those products, as well as the use of the stamp or other designation of alcoholic beverages and the alcoholic drink producer on the means of business communication and business representation. It's interesting this part, Mr. Minister, which says as well as the delivery of an individual adult person who previously gave consent to it. It doesn't apply anywhere. Take the wholesales, these supermarkets, you've got advertising liquor and it's meant for anyone who can take it and read it from the stand. So this part of the article is not applicable to you in the Republic of Serbia. Exceptionally, from the ban on advertising from the 1st Article's position, it is permitted to advertise alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of less than 20%, so it says – in public space, in a place that is at least 100 metres away by airline from the nearest point of the preschool, school, health or institution complex intended for minors. It can be direct. What about the air line? Why didn't you say 10 meters away from school and preschool institutions? Two, on means of transport, except for public transport, bus, trams and taxis. Under three, through electronic media, in cinemas, theatres or other venues where performances are performed, i.e. performances ranging from 18 to 0.6 hours, unless thematic or targeted for minors. Under four, in connection with sports events. Five, by Internet advertising. Extraordinaryly, we now propose to delete the following two positions, exclusively from the ban on advertising from the 1st Article's position, it is allowed to advertise alcoholic beverages in the printed media unless they are targeted or thematically intended for minors. The next position, exclusively from the ban on advertising under Article 1, is allowed to advertise alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of more than 20% in electronic media between 23 and six hours. So what you wrote from 23 to 6 hours is no limit, this is the 21st century, so that's not a restriction. This is what Mr. Minister says, of course, you refused this amendment, that the lobby that deals with the sale of these products is so strong in Serbia that it managed to convince the Ministry to put all this into law. In particular, we will talk later when we talk about tobacco, cigarettes, that the lobby is stronger than the will of the minister and the government, and as far as I can see, stronger than the will of the congregation's majority. But, please, fellow MPs, we have a vote in this room, we're going back to our microcentres, and we always say that we need to get alcohol away from the children, that we need as little opportunities as possible, that is. We disable the ability to touch cigarettes, and here we bring these laws. Let's be consistent sometime. What we're saying at home is that in this room we're going to do and vote for amendments that will prevent advertising. There is what the minister will say - compliance with European standards. Excuse me, in this part, I don't see why, say, an alcoholic lobby, or a tobacco lobby, would be strong, and why would he insist on the name of some big taxes and taxes he pays. They pay for it because they have big profits. If they didn't sell anything, they wouldn't have charged anything. They wouldn't pay for anything. Please consider fellow MPs on the amendments we have run over. I think we should accept it, because we are still Members of the people who care about the citizens of Serbia, and in that spirit we should pass laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47880	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47881	I assure you, no lobby has had an absolute impact on the drafting of this bill. After all, we have accepted over 35 amendments here. I do not believe there is a legal proposal, and so many amendments have been accepted with the aim of improving the text of this legislative proposal. Secondly, there is no international standard here when we talk about advertising alcoholic beverages. There is absolutely no single regulation that defines this area. There's a parallel, we've watched it and we've watched as it's from the ground regulated. The situation is quite colorful, and I can assure you that we belong to the order of the countries that treat this area in a more restrictive way. Despite all of this, we have tried to find something that is a compromise, which is a medium-sized variant that will satisfy the media, given that they are a difficult financial situation, both printed and electronic, and on the other hand to satisfy the manufacturers above all alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and on the other hand, which is the most important thing to protect our citizens. There is no restriction, there is no prohibition that can prevent alcohol consumption and alcohol consumption. It's not the subject of this law. After all, we can't even want to do it. I believe that these legal solutions and the proposals we have made are quite correct in terms of and protection, but also in terms of respect for some of the provisions that exist in EU countries, although I say there is no single international standard in this area. I can read to you all the countries how they regulated this area individually, and we are in the lower third countries by a restrictive approach to this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47882	Thank you. He's got a word for it. Blagoje Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47883	Mr. Minister, I have no doubt about what you say, nor do I doubt the data you present. The fact that you accepted a large number of amendments, I'll quote a colleague, I don't know if he's from opposition or position, said in principle the Ministry should thank the MPs for their commitment and reading the law, consulting their professional services as a party, so that the laws are as good as possible. So we do good, we make better laws, then we thank someone for accepting it. That's a little illogical, but it's not a subject, and don't take it personally, I'm not transferring anything to you, just a little bit of work. As far as restrictions are concerned, Mr. Secretary, it's politics. Life is politics. The way you think about reality is politics. The way you understand laws and how you make laws, it's politics. You have the right to have a congregation majority, to support citizens, to see you, to create this area. I don't think that's good. I think it should be more restrictive, I think we should be clearer and more specific in these areas not to give the possibility of interpretation anyway. It's my policy and my political options. I think I'm right, and that's why I appealed to my fellow MPs that in some situations we can face political attitudes here, and here are our living standards, so here's what every one of us, as a parent thinks, is that his child doesn't smoke, that his child doesn't drink. Can we stop the advertising ban? Hardly. Can we narrow down the possibility? Of course. That's what I think. That's why I insist we apply these amendments, to be more restrictive, to at least in this part, to do it legally as each of us intimately imagines it should look? Now, it's my right to think, it's your right to vote and vote what you think you should, and there are citizens watching, so my God, they'll say who's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47884	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Mr. Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47885	If I were to wonder when I would decide and if I would incorporate my beliefs into the text of a legal proposal, I would ban this completely. So, the ban on not advertising, but also smoking and drinking alcohol and alcohol, but as a civil servant, I have to take care of the breadth, different groups to which the law applies. So, we need to take care, first of all, of the interests of the citizens. We need to take care of the interests of those who produce alcohol and alcoholic beverages. Then what would they do? So we've given one possibility that they can advertise it in terms where we think it's allowed, desirable in some way. The current legal provision was quite inaccurate, allowing for the possibility of advertising beer and wine from six o'clock to six o'clock in the morning. We've now divided it into two groups of alcoholic beverages. We have again used parallel experiences from some other countries. We have one provision that is easy to apply to give tools and instruments to inspections to control the application of these legal provisions, of course, and to write misrepresentations where it is evident contrary to the provisions of this law. So I think we have one law that's not a dead letter on paper. We have one proposal that can be fully applied in practice, to protect users of advertising messages, that is, the main goal, but on the other hand not to limit too much of which of these live.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47886	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, as referred to in Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47887	Your Honor, I want to tell you that I'm joining you and your rigorous attitude and I'm looking as a doctor and I'm asking as a citizen of this country to protect the citizens and to be much more rigorous. If I were to ask myself in this country, I would also forbid advertising and cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. Now I'll tell you why? Because Serbia has been at the top of the European mortality scale for the past 15 years of cardiovascular disease and oncology mortality. I want to tell you as a specialist in head surgery, neck surgery, as a specialist in otorinolaringologist that head and neck tumors are formed by a combination of alcohol and cigarettes. This is a struggle for our nation's national health. This is very important that we don't allow it. Can't profit or any capital be a priority to the state, to allow liquor and tobacco producers, to advertise, and these videos are the most beautiful with smiling boys, with smiling girls, and it's all like great. Our tradition also binds both the act of birth and the act of death to alcohol. It's all in Serbia as normal to drink and smoke. As a doctor, I'm telling you, it's not normal, we can't let them advertise themselves like that, and what's more important is that we send a message to the citizens that they have to lead a healthy life, that they have to deal with sports, that they have to eat healthier food and what's most important, to leave cigarettes and leave alcohol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47888	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47889	Dear Minister, with full understanding of your position and the need to take a wide look at this area, I think you should adopt the amendment of fellow Bradic. So, I have submitted several amendments regarding advertising alcoholic beverages. They're the result of that amendment to the protection of children and minors. So my amendments are focused on it, but I will support my colleague Bradic's amendment and why do I think this amendment should be adopted? In fact, we haven't heard or, let's say, as a ministry, you could offer an analysis of the impact of advertising alcoholic beverages, let's say public health. With such an analysis of some relevant bodies, there would be no commentary on the impact of the lobby group on the fact that someone or anyone, not just the lobby group, influenced the making of this law, but would have a very clear attitude and passed on to us and we accepted it, that it did not affect, say, the deterioration of public health and then accepted such a member or influence, so you would not have suggested it. Also, you could, you could continue as a ministry to do an analysis or offer one of the relevant bodies to do an analysis of the ban on advertising tobacco products, so let's see from the moment the ban went into effect to this day, what are the effects and whether there is an effect, and then we go with more restrictive members and changes to the law or not. With such arguments, I would accept a member like this. But we don't have such arguments, we don't have such an analysis of how advertising alcoholic beverages affects public health, especially young people's health, not to say children and minors, it's a broad term, but in general public health, and that's why I'm going to support this amendment. I think you should think about it one more time, and with such an analysis, maybe later if you do that analysis, you come up with changes to the law, if you don't adopt it now, this amendment is important to create one healthy circumstance for, first of all, the growing up of our children, the minors, at the end of all citizens. It is therefore important that you adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47890	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47891	I would like to get involved in this debate first of all to say that I support the minister's position, who said first of all that if he were to make personal and personal definitions, he would define himself to prohibit advertising of these harmful products anyway. In that sense, I would also agree with previous MPs' comments, primarily Bradic, but also Nikolic, who also said that harmful advertising of alcoholic beverages, tobacco, etc. can have a negative effect of course on health. However, I will now draw attention to something else, that in any case in this bill better solutions were given than they were, that we can't regulate everything by the letter of the law and change the overall behaviour of any population in total, any children. That other measures are needed to apply. I will remind here that there was a ban in Belgrade on selling alcoholic beverages to minors and that ban as long as it lasted in Belgrade, it, as far as the survey showed, did not produce adequate results. So it's not just a ban, it's not just a matter of a restrictive one relationship that would be written in law, it's a total relationship both in family and in society and in education and in relation to young people, etc., so this is, I say, a shift, and I would also look back on that other part. So it's possible to regulate or further specify certain things and by sublaw, and I would agree, possibly with an analysis that would be in some future period, and in the foreseeable period of time, to change certain parts of the law. It is true that a campaign against tobacco use is being developed, against the use of alcoholic beverages. In particular, I would draw attention to, of course, the adverse consequences of the use of alcoholic beverages in young people and the cause of car accidents, which is really a big problem for us. So I don't think everything can be regulated and led to a positive point only in the way it's recorded in the law. There are other means and we need to apply them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47892	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47893	First, I would just like to inform that Serbia in negotiations with the European Commission is obliged, among other things, to regulate and advertise tobacco products and alcohol products, and that in this process the Finnish Ministry of Health, whose representatives were here, was in Finland, to learn about the way they do it in Finland. I want to tell you one thing, that it's possible, if you have the consent of political factors, for example. in Finland, the plan is for Finland to be a non-smoking country by 2020, i.e. Nobody in Finland smokes. I want to dream that in Serbia we will be able, not in 2020, but in some years after that, to experience Serbia being one safer place in terms of tobacco smoke and alcohol and that our young citizens, that our nation, is not so exposed to a high rate of malignancy and cardiovascular disease, because certainly cigarettes and alcohol contribute to 90% of the development of malignant tumours and cardiovascular diseases, which is why, unfortunately, we in Serbia are elsewhere in mortality and disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47894	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47895	Dear colleagues and colleagues, interesting discussion, different attitudes, and that's perfectly normal, but if we're going to be objective, here I don't smoke, but honestly, it bothers me that people who consume or use that tobacco are forbidden to do so. Normally, I can't be against what the government brings, against what most people in the congregation stand for. But let's see, we didn't invent tobacco or alcohol. It's something that's been around for hundreds of years. People consumed both alcohol and tobacco through the centuries and lived the way they lived. Today, at once, a part of our citizens or MPs are asking for something to be banned. Others try to be within the framework of those who impose either the EU or the situation in which we live. How do you get out in front of those people who consume tobacco? How do you explain to them that they can't smoke anymore? We've got tobacco manufacturers, we've got merchants making money on that tobacco. How will they survive in this society if we forbid the use of tobacco? I totally agree with the minister, who said he'd ask himself, he'd make one decision, but we have to look a little wider, we have to watch what this 100% ban does. As for this second part of the ban on alcohol consumption, it cannot happen in Serbia, it will be difficult to do so. So I think we need to be aware, be reasonable and smart and make decisions as they are right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47896	Thank you, Dr Stojmirovic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47897	So, just two sentences. I appreciate the professor's attitude, but we're talking about advertising now, not consumption. So, I'm absolutely against being popular, let's get into the common language, to popularize alcohol and tobacco. Whether someone is going to consume or smoke, or drink, it's a personal attitude and a personal decision, that's what other laws solve, but we're now saying whether we're popularizing and imposing something on the young population through the media printed, written, electronic, whatever, or not. I'm here to be restrictive, to reduce the possibility of someone getting a desire to start drinking or smoking. Those who smoke, will smoke, and have forbidden them, and in their house to smoke, and those who drink, shall drink however, but let us prevent young generations, at least lest we encourage them to enter these vices. That's why I'm to be as restrictive as possible in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47898	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47899	Just for accuracy. It's completely two separate things. It's one thing to advertise alcohol and alcoholic beverages, and that's where I said the solutions. As for tobacco advertising, tobacco products, there is a complete ban in both electronic and printed media and that is in line with the EU Directive. This law also passed an analysis of the European Commission which gave a positive opinion, because all that are international standards that exist, all that the EU directives are incorporated into the text of this legislative proposal. As far as tobacco is concerned, there are absolutely no extenuating circumstances when we talk about advertising. The only thing is not considered advertising on those traffickers, on the advertising shelves, if you point out pack of cigarettes, it's not considered advertising. Otherwise, in electronic, printed media, tobacco advertising is otherwise prohibited.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47900	Thank you. Members of the 47th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćirović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the Economic Cocus, together with the MPs of the DS, submitted to the 49th Amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 50th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, you mean, the chairman, and my party. Article 50 speaks of a ban on advertising tobacco products. We, Mr. Minister, in Article 50 of the 4th and 5th words that you start with: "not considered" have been replaced by words and we suggest that they be considered. And we have suggested that the positions from six to nine are deleted from the bill, because this is a boring political legal position that any exposure to tobacco products in sales places is the same as the delivery of information on tobacco properties in publications, magazines and the like, and for that reason we have submitted amendments. In order to make it more clear to the citizens, Article 50 says – tobacco and tobacco products are prohibited to advertise, including any mention of the stamp or other label of the manufacturers of these products, and that is fine. The beginning of a member is good. The next attitude says – there is no distribution of free tobacco products to consumers, and that is fine, we prevent stimulation and encourage the creation of a new army of smokers in Serbia. The following point says – it is prohibited to highlight the stamp or other label of the tobacco and tobacco products manufacturer referred to in Article 1 and in a notice not advertising the manufacturer of tobacco and tobacco products, including an ad message advertising the sponsored activity if this law is not otherwise prescribed. Now, what is wrong with us is the position that it says – is not considered to be advertising under Article 1, which is a ban on advertising, exposure to tobacco products at a point of sale for which the competent authority for the retail trade in small tobacco products has been granted in accordance with the rules on the transport of tobacco products. We ask that instead – not considered, it is said that advertising is also considered because it is advertised. The following position that we are also asking for to be changed says – is not considered to be advertising under the heading 1st of this article highlighting, i.e. publishing, as well as delivering to an individual designated adult person who has previously given consent to this, information on the quality and other properties of tobacco, i.e. tobacco products in the sales place referred to in Article 4 of this Article in professional books, magazines and other professional publications intended exclusively for manufacturers or sellers of those products, as well as the use of a brand or other label of the manufacturer of tobacco products on the means of business communication and business representation of that producer. So, we're saying that and this is considered advertising and advertising and we're looking for erasing the following positions that say – the first, notice from Article 5 of this article contains a notice of composition, filter, packaging, taste, origin, or other relevant data on the quality and properties of tobacco products, and it must contain a health warning by means of a sign of the prescribed content on at least 10% of the surface of that notice. Then, the next position that it says - the tobacco product in the notice referred to in Article 5 may be shown as a closed pack of cigarettes or a closed pack of another tobacco product, i.e. as one cigarette or another tobacco product and may contain the applicable retail price of a tobacco product determined and published in accordance with the law. We are also looking for the erasure of the following attitude that says – the equipment for the presentation of tobacco products at the point of sale, as well as the notification provided for in Article 5, must not contain characters, sound or mobile light, blinking effects or any other attractive content that would be particularly receptive to minors. And the next position is to be deleted – the notice from Article 5 cannot contain other statements in Serbian or foreign language, if they do not refer to the quality and other properties of tobacco and tobacco products. I think that, in the spirit of this little predication of ours, you should accept these suggestions, because here you can see if there's a lobby or there's no lobby. This is as if it was written by a marketing agency, not by a ministry that cares about the success of the government and the health of the people. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to consider with your associates. There's still time until the vote and you can suggest that our amendments be accepted in order to get this out of this article and out of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47902	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. If you want answers, I thought Mr. Tadic was joking when he said he didn't want on the small party list, like Together for Serbia, but if you're asking me to separate you, I'll separate you. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Jovanovic and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vukković, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac together. The government and the Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47903	Dear Chairman, I signed up while there was a discussion on the previous amendment, but it's no problem, I'll say it now. I agree with the previous MP who said it's unacceptable for tobacco companies to advertise in places where they sell them, because all these trades, all these discountes are near primary schools, near high schools, near college and are just in contact with minors, are with children who see these ads, which are within their reach, practically. Salesmen on these traffickers don't even control their ID cards, they sell those cigarettes. I want to tell you that I would like to have a rule in Serbia that cigarette boxes contain non-smoking lungs and lungs, to see the difference between how much smokers' lungs are damaged by tobacco smoke and how healthy and pink lungs are not smokers, to put a normal picture of laryngs on cigarette boxes, i.e. The throat and the vocal cord and the picture of the smoker having the cancer of the voice and the cancer of the throat. I think it's a new strategy in both the EU and Australia, and I hope that in Serbia, we will have the opportunity to show citizens the harmfulness of tobacco, and that in places where children go to school, it is unacceptable to advertise any tobacco company. No wonder, miraculously, all the leading tobacco industries came to Serbia, not to name names, but all the famous brands are there, and precisely because Serbs smoke a lot. I stand up and fight with you to reduce the percentage of smokers, and by fighting for a healthier nation and for healthier our children and for healthier Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47904	I thank you, Mr. Milisavlovich. The topic is important for the citizens of Serbia, and we are leaving the Rules of Procedure for a little while, but I would also ask you to move within the framework of the amendments that are on the agenda at that time. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47905	Your Honors Minister, my amendment that was passed was the result of that amendment 21, which I've been talking about all along. It's an amendment you've adopted, and it's about protecting children and minors from inappropriate advertising. I won't report to those amendments that are the consequence of this amendment until the end of the session, there are five more, I think, but it's important, and I'm going to conclude that we've come together to make one space safer for growing children and minors. By adopting all these amendments on this subject, 15, we have made a safer space for growing children, especially when we talk about advertising alcoholic beverages, gambling, not to say dice, advertising flammable products, medicines, weight loss funds, especially in those shows that are with children's content. So we did one good thing, made one space safer for our children and created one, I'd say, healthier environment for growing up all those we can put into a group of kids or minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47906	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, together submitted to the 54th amendment. The Committee on Economic and Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, with corrections, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment, with corrections, in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking the Minister to plead. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47907	Could not close temporary folder: %s
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47908	I find that the minister has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47909	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for accepting this amendment with the correction, because he was supposed to specify exactly the limits that were given when the games were defined. Since we are mainly in advertising places, when we talk about electronic media, printed, bombed and advertised, not only classic games, but gambling on goods and services, in this part remains a restriction, and the classic part of gambling is practically allowed, with the regulation of mandatory content now being precisely defined, and that's good, because by defining mandatory content is more achieved at the very sanctioning and responsible participation when it comes to avoiding gambling by minors. Since large studies have been arranged, and there are certain directives and recommendations from the European Commission since 14 July 2014, that the principles of consumer and user protection on-line gambling and preventing minors from gambling are practically defined by separation and that the essential money used by minors in the participation of gambling comes from parents. Therefore, we should do more with parents, with people who have responsibility for their children, especially when it comes to this area. On the other hand, if we hadn't defined this area this way, simply no television house could have made a deal with, say, advertising houses, such as gambling, such as "Lutrija Serbia", because then certain television houses would have lost the revenues they had so far. We think there's a balance here that essentially introduces order into this area and precisely defines a restriction. We thank you for this accepted amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47910	Thank you. The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47911	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, I have to thank you for the amendment you adopted. I thank you on behalf of the entire cultural community. What's very interesting is that I have put up with a lot of cultural initiatives myself, I think it's important, I think that this should be a more frequent topic in this home, it's interesting that one ministry that is not directly involved in culture has shown fantastic hearing, fantastic understanding for Serbia's culture by accepting an amendment that allows cultural products, cultural creation products, cultural manifestations are treated as statements of general interest. This will mean a lot to Serbian culture, Serbian culture, high culture is in withdrawal from cheap content, ahead of content that does not belong to culture, but far more estradi. So this is absolutely fantastic, a great help to all cultural goods producers, all the cultural esnafi. Indeed, this amendment may not be all aware of how much it means and what it can mean, it can bring value on an annual scale in a several million-euro cultural goods commercial. All cultural MPs really thank you for that, this is a big step forward for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47912	Thank you, Mr. Dragoevich. Just to be clear to the MPs and the public, you were talking about the amendment to Article 36 that you submitted and which minister accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment with correction were together submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikokoć, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Marinkovic, Ivana Karic, Mr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47913	Thank you. Therefore, Article 54 speaks of restrictions on the place of advertising of gambling and he says – it is forbidden to advertise games on open surfaces, except in a place that is at least 100 metres away by air line from the nearest point of the preschool, school, health or institution complex intended for minors. The next attitude says – it is forbidden to advertise classic and special gambling on websites that are thematic or targeted for minors. We suggest that these words – which are thematically or targeted for minors, are deleted, so that the attitude reads – are forbidden to advertise classic and special gambling on websites. The following attitude says – it is forbidden to advertise classic and special gambling in public transport means and on those means, buses, trams and taxis. The next attitude says – it is forbidden to advertise classic and special games of chance, games held in toys, casinos, machines, betting on sports results, radio and television shows intended for minors, as well as in printed media designed for those persons. We suggest that this attitude is – it is forbidden to advertise classic and special gambling in radio and television shows, as well as in print media. We believe that this solution is better, more meaningful and that it is for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47914	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to the 56th amendment. The Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with corrections is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47915	Amendment accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47916	I find that the minister has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. Do you want the word Mrs. Tomic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47917	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, this amendment is just saying that there are no time limits in advertising, especially when it comes to gambling. If such an amendment had not been adopted, we would have come to a completely contradictory situation, because the re-emission of channels of certain foreign televisions, for example in Serbia, is possible, and according to their laws, of course, in accordance with those European directives that I spoke about, so that our practically distributors, or advertisers under these regulations, would have been denied at all to be able to advertise. By accepting the amendments, you have really enabled advertisers to function on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47918	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Marinkovic, Ivana Karic, Mr. Blagoja Bradic, together submitted the amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47919	Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, member of the 60th discusses restrictions on advertising of pornography. Government, i.e. The ministry suggests that this member looks like this. It says – advertising is forbidden whose content is pornographic, except in pornographic public messages. It's okay. The following attitude says – an advert message whose content is not pornographic, which points to pornography and in the fences of hotline, advertising message for pornographic press, movies and the like, is prohibited except for TV and radio programs in time from 0.00 to 5.00 hours and pornographic public messages. We suggest that this attitude is – an advertising message whose content is not pornographic, and which points to pornography is forbidden except in pornographic public messages. I think this is meaningful and I don't understand why the Ministry didn't accept this. Because this limit from 00.00 to 05.00 in the morning, I already said in previous reports, this is the 21st century, and this restriction doesn't mean anything. All the children and all the young live at night, sleep by day. In such a country, we started living because of huge unemployment, our children sleep in the day, and they go out at night. Please, at least this law prevents advertising, not consumption, like there were words. So we are now preventing advertising, popularity and advertising, so please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47920	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Miroslav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrovic, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to the 60th amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with corrections is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. An amendment that, after Article 61, adds a new member and a member of 61a. together, the MPs of the LSV parliamentary group submitted. Thank you. To the title above Articles 63 and 63 of the same text, MPs gathered together in economic cocus and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted this amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with corrections is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47921	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 63, submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I is the last amendment that I will explain during this debate, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry. I'd like to see if it's still our turn to respect one of our suggestions. We propose that the position of the 3rd member of the 63rd draft law be complemented. Here I will read how this should now be, this attitude after our supplement – direct advertising to natural persons is done in accordance with the rules of advertising through means of communication at a distance, in accordance with the regulation governing consumer protection and following our supplement, commad – with respect to the Personal Data Protection Act. Minister Ljajic gave us a precise answer that he cannot accept this amendment because he believes that the application of the law governing the protection of personal data is understood. But, dear gentlemen, what has happened to us? In the conditions of serious suspicions that there are terrible abuses and violations of the Law on the Protection of Personality Data in our country, it is very important that in one such Law on Public Advertising yet once again because of these serious doubts, which exist, the importance of this law is highlighted and that this is the only reason for this – with respect to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Otherwise, Minister Ljajic has indeed accepted a large number of amendments. Since the 83rd day, 43 have been accepted. It's a really big score and there's no dilemma. It was read seriously, but perhaps this too, Minister Ljajic, 44 and then move on to the debate that we are all waiting for – the authentic interpretations of individual members of the Law on Electronic Media and, in particular, by copyright and related rights. I'm sure you know, Mr. Ljajic, how much an actual topic is here now. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47922	Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Thank you. Members of the 67th Amendment were together submitted by MPs Dejan Radenkovic, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandra Tomic, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Comić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the amendment. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaža Bradic together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47923	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, member of 67 speaks about the sponsorship of the alcoholic drink producer. He says an alcoholic drink advertiser cannot sponsor media, athletes, sports clubs, sports competitions including the sponsorship of individuals, or participants of these events, and that is fine. This prevents the popularity of these products in youth, and I agree with that. The following attitude says – the advertiser of alcoholic beverages cannot sponsor minors, their activities, as well as their faces or activities, whose audience is primarily made up of minors. Now there is a very interesting attitude, as in all these members where I have moved with the minister, says – the ban of Article 1 does not apply to alcoholic drink advertisers with an alcoholic content of less than 20%. Mr. Minister, we have suggested that this – with an alcohol content of less than 20% is deleted and written – which in the sense of the law governing alcoholic beverages is not considered a strong alcoholic drink. This - 20%, that's absolutely all wine. It's alcohol. Dear People's MPs, do we want sports events, clubs where our children are trained by alcoholic drink producers? This has nothing to do with EU harmonisation anymore. Is that what you want or don't want? If you do not want to, you have an alternative to the prohibition in Article 1 does not apply to advertisers who, in the sense of the law governing alcoholic beverages, do not consider strong alcoholic beverages and I think that everyone here would agree. Now I leave it to you, Mr. Minister, as well as to the MPs of the assembly majority to decide whether they want our clubs and sports events to be sponsored by alcohol producers or as they have so far been banned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47924	Members of the People's Parliaments gathered together in the economic “Cokus” and joint MPs of the DS Group together submitted to the 68th amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47925	Thank you. I will use this amendment, if you allow the Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, to say two things. Consistent with the proposal as given on behalf of the ministry, in fact to point out in some way that the adoption of this law was very precise, it was clearly pointed out in our discussion that the adoption of the bill had been a public debate, that the positions and opposition parties in this Parliament were equally measured, adopted, etc. and that they have become an integral part of the law and that a very positive parliamentary spirit has been achieved to obtain a correct law, a good law that goes in the direction of improving these relations in advertising and in particular draws attention to the large number of amendments that have been adopted, which draw attention to the protection of children and their position in this entire Corps of issues. Finally, I think that giving support to the government, i.e. the ministry on our part, also gives me one positive connection ratio, and that in that sense I think nothing is wrong when we MPs point to such an attitude that implies that the government understood our initiatives, that the ministry also suggested that our initiative come into the law, and I will welcome this practice in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47926	The amendments to the same text were jointly submitted by MPs gathered together in the economic “Cokus” and together by MPs of the DS Group. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. At the 78th Amendment in the same text, the MPs Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Micin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Šutanovac together. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which was added after article 79, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaža Bradic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47927	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we have proposed a new member who is in the area where the penalties are described for all those who do not comply with this law and we have suggested that, I will read to you – the funds achieved by the payment of fines for the violation of Article 78 of this Law are the income of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Part of the funds set out in Article 1(1) shall be used for the financing of the Red Cross of Serbia, the organisation of persons with disabilities and other associations aimed at improving the socio-economic and social situation of persons with disabilities and other persons in a state of social need, the institution of social protection, sports and youth, local self-government, the treatment of rare diseases as well as diseases of addiction and activities aimed at reducing the use of tobacco and alcoholic beverages. We believe that part of the funds achieved by the collection of fines should be directed to social and social groups and activities acting on the plan to prevent negative phenomena in society, the social protection plan, etc. and thus ensure the continued financing of these organisations and reduce the need for various voluntary actions to collect assistance and voluntary contributions and show solidarity for Serbian citizens. I think it's a meaningful amendment, that we should accept that some of the funds collected by the payment of penalties are directed and we form a fund that will be the source of funding for these organizations that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47928	Thank you. Mr Dejan Radenković, Zoltan Pek, Katarina Rakić, Milosav Milojevic, Zoran Babić, Aleksandar Senić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Milan Petrić, Zarko Mićin, Nenad Nikolic, Slobodan Homen and Ivan Jovanovic, with correction, and joint MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vuković, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Corović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovana Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. The government and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Information Security Act You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Vladimir Orlic, to article 19. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The National MPs Vesna Marjanović, Natasa Vučković, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted to the 24th amendment. Thank you. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 29th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Thank you. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHENTIC InterpretATION OF ARTICLE 11. Item 4, 5. And six. THE LAW ON ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ASSISTANCES (SERVAL PUBLIC ASSISTANCE), NUMBER 83/14) You have received an amendment to the proposal for authentic interpretation jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Marjanović and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. I thank Minister Rasim Ljajic, with the cabinet members, for participating in today's session. In view of the second amendment, with the correction, the MPs Vesna Marjanović and Mr. Alexandra Jerkov. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has not considered this amendment. According to Article 195. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be subject to the procedure for authentic interpretation of the laws in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the procedure for the adoption of the laws. According to Article 48(1), Article 10(1) and Article 194(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were arranged for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law to prepare a proposal for authentic interpretation. Article 161(1) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been established that the amendment can be submitted by a constitutionally authorised legislator. Since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is the only proponent of authentic interpretation, it is only authorised to submit amendments to the text of the Proposal for authentic interpretation, and amendments, MPs Vesna Marjanović and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov are not authorised to submit the amendment. At the submitted proposal for authentic interpretation by the authorised promoter, the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday 26 January 2016, starting at 13pm and 30 minutes, as the day for voting on the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I thank the MPs and I'll see you in 15 minutes for the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47929	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall. I'm putting the bill of law to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote by three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstention of the Messengers 149. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted 150 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 151 people's messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 153 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 155 of the Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 155 of the Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 6th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 156 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 156 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions for 156 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Four MPs of the SVM Group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted in 154 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 155 of the Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 157 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 157 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted in 154 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 157 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 14, 18, 30, 52, 58, 59, 60, 62, 83, 97 and I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted in 154 MPs. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 14th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 157 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 157 Messengers. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The 18th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted for 158 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina's MPs have tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 22a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by six MPs to the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who has been abstained - who has not voted with 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there has been no vote of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote, has voted against the peoples of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP MilanPetric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 27th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted with 157 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted. 160 MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted with 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The parliamentary group of the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina, submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 34th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 162 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, none, for 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 37th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, none, for 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 39th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 161 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 158 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 45th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment are jointly composed of mid-term MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against, no one who is abstentioned, 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against, no one who is abstentioned, 161 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, who is abstentioned, has voted against 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 51 of the amendment, MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, with abstentions, has voted for -three against - 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The peoples of Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the 51st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 161 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted with 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against them, has voted against them, no one who is abstentioned has voted against the 159-nation MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 52nd Amendment together include mid-term MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47930	I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 53rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted for 158 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted for 158 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 56, MP Velimir Stanojevic tabled the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 155 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment in the course of a review of the bill's proposal, in particular. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. The MP Zlata Djeric, a member of the 56th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 156 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The peoples of Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric submitted together to the amendment's 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted from the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 57th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 58 of the amendment, with a correction, MP Milan Petrovic submitted the peoples. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 64 of the amendment, MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the nations. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV group submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Social Democrats League have submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 83rd amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted to the 85th amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted an amendment proposing the addition of the title, title and Articles 90a and 90b. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 96. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Velimir Stanojevic and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS submitted to the 100th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS, ZS, submitted the amendment to Article 102. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 112. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 114. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the SNS parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 124. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 124 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 129th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 129 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 132 by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment to Article 133. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 134th amendment was submitted by 10 MPs from the Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 135. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Parliament group submitted to Article 135 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 136th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 136th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 136th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At Article 136 of the amendment, there are six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 138th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Article 138 of the amendment, there are six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the 138th amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, no one, with abstentions, voted seven of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. The 141st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party group. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, abstentioned – one, voted eight of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 142. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 142, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 143rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 144th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 149th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 150th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the end of the 150th amendment, there are six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 150th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At Article 151 of the amendment, there are six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 151st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 151st amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 152 of the amendment, there are six MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 154 of the amendment, there are six MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 154 of the amendment, there are six MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 154th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 155 of the amendment, there are six MPs from the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 158th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 158 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia and six MPs from the Democratic Party group, submitted to the 159th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the end of the 160th amendment, there are six MPs from the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 160th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 160th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 164th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment to Article 164 of the amendment has submitted to the Parliament of the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 164. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted the amendment to Article 164. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 167, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 167 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 167, the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 168. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 168th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 169 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 169 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 169. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 164 out of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 170th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 170th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 164 out of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 170th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 170th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 170. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 172 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs of the DS Group of Members, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 172 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Dragan Sutanovac and six MPs of the DS MPs submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 177 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 177 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 182 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 162 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 161 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 161 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above the article. 184, 185, 187 and 194 and art. 136, 175, 176, 184, 185, 186, 187, 189, 190, 192, 194, 208, 209, 217, 246 and 254 amendments were submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Đeric and Velimir Stanojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 161 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In the name above Articles 184 and 184. The amendment was submitted by MP Dubravka Filipovski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 161 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted the amendment to Article 184. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 186 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with correction, and six MPs of the DS parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 187 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted to the amendment of 188. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 189th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 189. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 189th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 189. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 190 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 190. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted the amendment to Article 192. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 192. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 159 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 195 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 206 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 207th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the 207th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 159 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 207th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 207th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 207 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to Article 209 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to Article 210 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 159 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 210 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 211. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 156 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 212. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 213. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted the amendment to Article 215. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 210th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 217, the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 218 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Milan Petrovic, with a correction, and six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and Article 222 of the amendment, six MPs from the LSV group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 222. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted the amendment to Article 224. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 224. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 224. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac to Article 230. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Parliament group submitted to the 230th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 230th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic to Article 232. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 233rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 240th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 251 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 251 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, to Article 258. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned, voted 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting several amendments to the text of the Bills, the situation in Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit new amendments that bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. I therefore set a ten-minute break and ask that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47931	We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 138 MPs present in the hall. You have been presented with amendments to the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 53. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 70. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – one abstention – there is no vote, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 225. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Since we are done deciding on the amendments, we now approach the vote on the bill in general. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on police in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, against – four abstentions – there is no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Police. Moving to the next point. I put the draft law on public order and peace to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, v – two, abstentions – no, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Chapter I, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstentions, who has not voted with 159 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, there is no vote of 159 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 163 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – three against – 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 3rd and Article 3rd Amendment, MP Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one who is abstentioned has voted against 161 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for one, against one, none of the abstentioned have voted 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II and Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no, 161 people's messenger did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever voted against 164 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 165 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS, the ZZS, submitted the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 162, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, the abstentioned - there is no vote, 162 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has ever voted 165 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. An amendment proposing the addition of a new Chapter III, the name of the head and the new Art. 7 and 8, with correction, ten MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 161 people's messenger for four. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter III, the title above Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—two, against—one, the abstentions—there is no vote, not 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: No one, the abstentioned, voted 163 MPs for – two against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 10th and member of the 10th amendment, Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, not 161 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members of the 11th and Article 11th amendments, MP Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no vote, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The name above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 160 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above Article 13 and Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: 162 MPs did not vote for – one against – two abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one, against - six, abstentions - there is no vote, there is no vote of 157 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The name above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against six, with abstentions, there is no vote of 158 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above the 16th and the 16th amendment, Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—two, against—four, abstentions—there is no vote, none of the 159 MPs voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for - one, against - no one, the abstentioned, has voted 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To the title above Article 17 and Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—two, against—one, the abstentions—there is no vote, not 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 18th and Article 18th, Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—two, against—three, abstentions—there is no vote, nor did 161 MPs vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by Vesna Marjanovic, Natasa Vukkovic and Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions for 166 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 18a, with correction, was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 162 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members of the 19th and member of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, Janko Veselinovic and eight DS MPs submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted 165 MPs for – two against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 20th and Article 20th of the amendment, Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 21st and Article 21st, Janko Veselinovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Janko Veselinović and together by Borislav Stefanovic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter IV, the title above Article 23 and Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter V, the name above Article 24 and Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—one, the abstentions—there is no vote, not 165 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eight DS MPs submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions for them 167 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against one, none of the abstentioned have voted 166 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 24th Amendment was submitted by Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the abstentions for them 167 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Chapter VI, the name above Article 25 and Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, not 164 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On chapter VII, the name above article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against one, none of the abstentioned have voted 166 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On chapter VIII, the name above article 27 and Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against one, none of the abstentioned have voted 166 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against one, none of the abstentioned have voted 166 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the draft law on public order and peace in general. I conclude the vote: no four MPs voted for – 158 against – five abstentions. I find that the assembly has adopted the draft law on public order and peace. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the proposal for a law on public gathering, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – one abstention – there are no, there are no votes of eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, 163 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote, no vote of 160 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47932	I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 158, out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160, out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote of 159, of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs of the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 out of 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, the abstentions – there is no vote, no vote 160, of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic, together with MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and five MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the LSV Group submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156, of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 out of the 161 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160, out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160, out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 10, out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160, out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment is the international MP Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Vladimir Orlic, Dusica Stojkovic, Aleksandar Markovic and Nenad Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, have tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of the 13a be added after article 13. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 159 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the DS group submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 13a be added after Article 13. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Ten MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aida Corovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Aida Corovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović, submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were submitted by MP Aida Ćorovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović, submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting several amendments to the text of the Bills, the situation in Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. I therefore set a 10-minute break and ask that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-01-26-0.u47933	We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. Please just a little faster to get your cards into the MPs' units, wait for the MPs to sit down and insert the cards. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 21. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – two, abstentions – no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this amendment. Since we are done with the amendment decision, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on public gathering in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 against – one abstention – there is no vote, no vote by four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public gathering. Moving to point 4. I put the draft advertising law to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We move to a decision on amendments. Under the name of the law, the amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 146 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 147 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 149 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party submitted the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 19th amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. In Part III, Title 1 above Article 21 and Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of members 21 and Article 21 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 21st amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 22nd and 22nd amendments, together with the correction, were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 148 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 149 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, which added the name and new member of 26a after article 26a, was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 149 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eight members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 31st amendment was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eight members of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 151 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 35th Amendment was submitted by the Social Democrats League' parliamentary group of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 149 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 46th Amendment was submitted by the Social Democrats League parliamentary group of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, has voted with 149 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eight MPs from Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 151 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eight MPs from Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 151 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 54th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by 12 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 151 of the total attendance of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th amendment was submitted by eight MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDP Group -- Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 151 of the total attendance of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDP – submitted to the 60th amendment together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new name and a member of 61a after Article 61a, was submitted by six MPs of the LSV parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 67th amendment was submitted by eight MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDP Group -- Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which added a new member of 79 after article 79, was submitted by eight MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDP Group -- Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstentions, voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the draft advertising law to the vote, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – one, with abstention – there was no vote by three of the total number of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill of advertising. I'm putting on a vote for the Information Security Bill, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – one, with abstention – there was no vote by three of the total number of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. 12 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 153 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS Group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 12 MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by 12 MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I'm putting a vote on the Information Security Bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – two abstentions – there was no vote by two of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the proposal for an information security law, in general. We move to the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 11(4), (5) and (6). The Law on Electronic Media (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’, number 83/14), I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 11(4), (5) and (6). The Law on Electronic Media (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), number 83/14, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – four, with abstention – there was no vote of 133 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposal for authentic interpretation. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda - Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2. The Law on Copyright and Related Rights (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No 104/09/99, 99/11 and 119/12/12) I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 2(2). The Law on Copyright and Related Rights (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No 104/09/99, 99/11 and 119/12/12), in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – five, abstention – two, voted 148 out of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposal for authentic interpretation. We're moving on to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 18 January 2016, at 12 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 January 2016, at 12 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143 out of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 22 January 2016, at 17 hours and 04 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one, abstention – voted 139 out of 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 25 January 2016, at 12 hours and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 135 of the total attendance of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 25 January 2016, at 13 o'clock, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 131 of the total attendance of 131 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you.
