ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5688	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Your Excellency, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the Eleventh Assembly. As you know, this special session I have called to the National Assembly to address His Excellency, Mr Roger Nkodo Dang, president of the Pan-African Parliament. I am honored to welcome His Excellency, Mr Roger Nkodo Dango, on behalf of the MPs and on behalf of myself, and to welcome the other members of the Pan-African Parliament delegation, as our distinguished Member of Parliament, Mauricias. It is also an honor to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask His Excellency, Mr. Roger Nkodo Dungo to take his word and address us. Here's your Excellency. ROGER NKODO DANG: Dear Mrs Majo Gojkovic, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, your Excellency, members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, your Excellency, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, your Excellencys and ambassadors and representatives of international organisations in the Republic of Serbia, honourable fellow MPs and members of the General Secretariat and the administration of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honor for Africa in my humble name to address the representatives of the Serbian people, here present to offer warm greetings to the African peoples presented in the Pan-African Parliament. You will allow me first of all to express my gratitude and gratitude to the African people for the call made by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Also, in response to that call, the Pan-African Parliament here is presented, so here is the African Parliament of my smallness, an African, originating in Cameroon, the President of the Pan-African Parliament, and there is Mrs Malini, here present with Mauritius, MPs in the National Assembly of Mauritius, but also MPs in the Pan-African Parliament. I would like to express on our behalf the sincere gratitude of the African peoples on the warm welcome that has been given to us and to convey to you the greetings of Mr. Veroljub Arsic, vice president of the National Assembly, sent to the airport. Our gratitude goes also to the entire Serbian people, as well as to the President of the Republic, His Excellency Tomislav Nikolic, who, despite his obligations, has still found time to see us. We are grateful to you, Mr. President of Serbia. The Pan-African Parliament is the parliament of African nations. Parliament's mission is to integrate African peoples. After gaining independence, Africa founded an organization of African unity in 1963. The mission was assigned to this organization by a mission that was the full release of African peoples, in other words, independence. That independence came after, therefore, came before the Cold War and the struggle between the West and the East and despite that colonization, the Liberation Wars Africa paid the heavy price of that war. Once we gained independence, we had to face the challenges of globalisation. In 1989, an African Unity organization gave its place to the African Union to respond to the current challenges. The African Union has established organs such as the Panafri Parliament. This parliament consists of 54 countries that are members of the African Union. Each state is represented in parliament, and among them is always at least one woman, and so far. It is the parliament of representatives who are completely equal, regardless of the importance or size of the state. Parliament's headquarters is in South Africa, and the motto is one Africa, one vote. In the first five years of its existence, the parliament has been given a consultative, advisory mandate, and today, the protocol has been amended and adopted by the Conference of Heads of Government and States of the African Union in Malibu, on 27 June 2014, to become an authority that has legislative power and authority. The protocol is currently under ratification by the signatories. Dear colleagues, the Panafri Parliament holds annual sessions, has its own administration and our parliament maintains co-operation relations with parliamentary forums of regional countries and across the continent and discusses all issues that have to do with the peace, security and well-being of the local population. Friendly relations between Serbia and African countries date back a long way, since the founding of the Unclassified Movements, Serbia and the African countries have met several times. However, it is necessary to speed up these relations today, because in addition to diplomatic relations and consular relations, which can exist with certain countries, we want to speed up relations between the people, parliamentary diplomacy, as this is the case, can accelerate relations between the states and the peoples of Serbia and Africa. Serbia and Africa have some common points. Because of the growing intolerance and uncertainty between the peoples, and especially because of the polarisation of the world, by the great forces, the peoples of Serbia and the peoples of Africa can unite and defend their interests, because, before common danger, a common reaction is needed. Terrorism, expansionist provocations by other countries are common topics in Africa and Serbia. I want and hope that our visit will study ways to find solutions to the problems that plague our citizens, and we are representatives of these citizens. The world of the future will be consolidated if we build mutually beneficial relationships for our citizens, and that is our hope and I end my conversion. And I repeat, the willingness of the Pan-African Parliament to co-operate with the parliament of the Republic of Serbia for the sake of the well-being of our citizens that we represent and thus will revive international co-operation. Lived parliamentary co-operation and diplomacy, lived by the Panafri Parliament, lived by the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention. I thank His Excellency for his address. I hereby conclude the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I would also like to inform you that we will continue the session that we started with an earlier debate on amendments at 11.00 p.m., and we expect Minister Knezevic to be present. Thank you. The session is closed at 10.25 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5691	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment concerns the adoption of security plans on waterway security and implies that the government of the Republic of Serbia should be exempt from adopting these security plans. It is not disputed that the government of the Republic of Serbia can adopt the plan, but it is not further specified in which way and who, as an expert, will draw up the security plan, not only one but a bunch of plans that involve. So we're thinking that this should be done further by the directorate. No one is more competent than the directorate to do those documents, and it is not disputed that such documents are submitted to the government and adopted by the government. The government has no professional capacity to pass such acts, and the law itself does not explain who will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5692	Thank you. Representatives Bozidar Delic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5693	We have submitted an amendment to Article 25. This Article of the Law provides for amendments, i.e. the addition of an appropriate member of the basic text of the law, where the competences of the Port Agency are regulated. I think someone misinformed the promoter when he made this proposal. Why? There is no obligation to keep records, nor is there an obligation to keep this as a state aid of small value. If I hadn't explained it to you now, since I see that there's been a change in the representatives, I've tried to write in the amendment on which regulations it's regulated. Here, please, you have a regulation on the rules for granting state aid where all of this is prescribed. You also have the State Aid Control Act. Someone at the ministry who was in charge of these matters misread by Article 2 of this Law, paragraph 1. It is not about reducing public revenues on the basis of this fee to be paid. Why isn't it working? Because they do not interfere with the market, competition is not contained. It's a right that's recognised to anyone who deals with these jobs and uses dock and port services. Totally unnecessary. Secondly, Mr. Duke, you have to know, I don't know exactly in the government if you have full insight into what's going on in some departmental services, but apparently there are some bad things going on at the Department of Traffic. So, the main feature of navigation safety and waterways is a woman who is a forest engineer. The head of security control led by the inspectorate is General Simic's son, that trafficker. A man doesn't own school supplies, nor does he have the basic knowledge of these things. There is also a lawyer, some Veljko Kovacevic, who they use to sign orders, say the mine was closed. There's a lot going on here that's independent of this. I don't want to open this topic about it. Probably after this part of the agenda, I'll put together a criminal report, because I have a big list and who sells diplomas and what that Iron Man does and what Kovacevic does. Not to mention those names. It might not be good, but I'm going to notify the D.A.'s office of organized crime about what's going on. As a result of what's happening, we have these changes and additions to this law. The law was passed in 2010, so it was fundamentally changed in 2013, it seems to me at the end of 2013, and even better changed in early 2015, so now pride is changing almost identical provisions that have already been changed several times. Why? Can anyone answer the question? The State aid control law and this regulation have been passed long ago. If that's the basis for changing this member, what has been done so far? What's not changed so far? Another thing, it is legally-technically unacceptable that one norm that is contained in the regulation, as a sublegal act, over time, becomes a legal norm that is built into some law. It's from the point of view, I don't know how this legislation could have gone, how it could've passed a bill like this. So some members are completely unnecessarily changed here because maybe someone out there doesn't know how to interpret what's written in some other law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5694	Thank you. Members of the 28th Amendment in the same text were brought together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović and Zoran Krasic, together with MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? In order, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5695	It's about changing Article 214. I must draw attention to the fact that this article was changed in 2015 at the time of the amendments to this law, and apparently during that change, no work has been completed until the end, and as regards the recognition of certain property rights on the infrastructure of ports and ports already in some privatisation process and in 2015, a precedent was made, unnecessary, because the right is related to the date on which the Law on concessions entered into force. There is now a completely unnecessary change in that member. In what way? It is thought that it is not important when the contract is concluded, but when the privatisation process is started. The process of privatising ports was never started at the party's request, but in accordance with the law. It's a lot more concrete solutions that exist in the law now than this. Why? In this way, there's an opportunity spreading seemingly. Secondly, you're unnecessarily entering the story of bankruptcy rights. I'm talking about bankruptcy rights because the proposer put it in an explanation, and I don't think this is about bankruptcy rights. If you had the need to solve some property issues on the infrastructure, then you also have the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, you have the Law on Privatization, you have here the Law on Construction, you have this law that partially regulates these areas, so before it is a clear provision that the land cannot be subject to privatisation, but in state property. Why did someone go with these innovations? Why did he seem to be spreading things? Furthermore, if the topic is whether anyone else will have the right to carry out port's activity, then there's no bankruptcy rights. Why? The amendments to the law prescribe conditions and all those in the situation must meet these new conditions and there are no bankruptcy rights. Someone misread the concept of a concession promoted by some previous law and here completely unnecessaryly extends and gives a lot of ground to each and every one of us to say that this was done because of Luke Novi Sad, we don't even have to have proof. Why? It's the only one that's not privatized. And when did this privatisation process start? The Department of Business can write any date. How does the privatisation process begin? An estimate of the value of the capital. When was the valuation of the value of the capital carried out? In 2001. This change says – it does not matter when the contract is concluded, but when the privatisation process is started. That's what this is about. What's suggested by attitude 3 is deeply unconstitutional. You should take care of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5696	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5697	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party is proposing to delete Article 28. Amendments proposed in Article 28. The bill is simply inadmissible. All the issues in question are listed in the analysis that we have submitted. Free availability of company assets is prohibited and prevents any development of investments without any argument. The only argument you're giving us is-- trust us, trust the Directorate, we'll give you permission. What if we don't get permission in a year? What if you don't give permission? That's why we're proposing to delete Article 28, because it's never clear to colleagues on the opposite side why we suggest that something be deleted. Because you have, unfortunately, been ruling the effects and laws so far and so far, through the Serbian Progressive Party and institutions, which, unfortunately, you have been ruling for five years, shown that there is only one thing in your head, which is corruption. So we propose that this member be deleted because of the opening of corruption works, which are prone to the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5698	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. You want a line or an amendment? (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: He didn't recognize himself, did he? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5699	So, I answered the amendment. I don't know why he's so nervous about a gentleman who just spoke. I'll remind the citizens of Serbia of his ingenious change, which is hard to repeat by heart, I'm not that smart, so I'm going to have to read it. The interpretation of the amendment is compatible with what the gentleman said: "I have made a proposal to visit certain services. I would not be here now to point out which, but the Serbian Progressive Party can refuse, simply have a majority and say there is no need for these services to be visited. Secondly, the answer to which in the time period," now watch this, so it should really be a genius and think of something like this: “Secondly, the answer to which in the time period for which we need to get that answer is 30 days. It is an extremely long period of time, leaving room for various machinations." Those who have dealt with various machinations, they think that everyone deals with various machinations when it comes to power. Then whatever bill of law is in the assembly procedure, for the gentleman and his colleagues, who declare such genius stuff, they see some corruption, something secret, some gibberish, all of what they did when they were in power. Now, here, if I understood correctly, and you'll admit, it's hard. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: You didn't understand. And I didn't understand well, I agree, this is very hard to understand, so this takes a lot more than a law degree. This is philosophy already. So here, as a crucial question, it is now the reason that the government is called corrupt, corrupt, and I don't know what kind of one, and what if you don't get a license within the time limit prescribed by law. We don't give permission, and now we don't know what the legal situation is, and now there's room for some machinations, space for some thieving or I don't know what. Whoever declares it should at least be a little legally informed and at least a little legally informed about what's going on. In such situations, the assumption set out in the General Administrative Procedure Act is applied, since the authorisation is an administrative act, that a negative administrative act has been adopted. It's called legal theory silence management. So there is a very simple legal solution - if you do not receive an administrative act within any time period from the competent national authority that you requested, permission of any kind, public correction, etc., it is considered that your request has been rejected. Then there's the assumption that a negative administrative act has been brought in. What legal means do you have available? You can make a complaint about the so-called silence of the administration, and after that, you can conduct a administrative dispute over the silence of the administration. So, the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes absolutely guarantee the right of the party and in such situations where the competent state authority does not respond within the legal time limit to their request, or does not issue the required administrative act, but then you must have, when you accuse someone of crime and corruption, then you must get to know a little bit of the other laws that regulate that area. I know that the simplest thing is to go out for a pay phone and sign up for a word and now see that Minister of Industry and say – here's the government corrupt, you're all criminals and bandits, etc., you stole etc. Here, about half past seven performers begin. They got some sleep this morning, but good. So, before you accuse anyone of dealing with any corruption and of trying to muddle and hide, you need to get acquainted with the relevant legal provisions. This is about administrative proceedings, and in administrative proceedings, you can exercise your right either through a complaint about the silence of the administration, or later by means of the Law on Administrative Disputes, or by using the Law on Administrative Disputes to initiate an administrative dispute over the silence of the administration, so there is no room here. I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia. These across the street aren't worth anything to explain and talk to. So, in the event that you do not receive the required administrative act in the prescribed time-limit law and you have the appropriate legal means that makes the legal system of the Republic of Serbia available to you and thus eliminates the possibility of any abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5700	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5701	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know you love my last name and every time someone from the Democratic Party answers for a word. I'm advertising Article 106. - that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is carried out, which the previous speaker did not do, and I'm advertising Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Do not let us protect the ministers from the opposition, as it is the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic accused Prime Minister Knezevic of being corrupt. We didn't say that. I didn't say it, and that's another proof that the only thing Mr. Martinovic said in his life, and that's true, is that SNS is a mob, treasonous organization. Here's the evidence. It was said in 17.7.2012. It's the only thing he said that's true, so don't let us protect individual ministers from SNS. It is not a speech worthy of the MP, Mr Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5702	I ask you fellow MPs that if you have something to say to someone else, and you have not signed up for the word do it outside the O.R. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Do not throw, sign up for a word. Nobody insulted the minister. I believe there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure for those members, and that is because the quote that counterpart Martinovic used was the introduction to his discussion and the answer to your amendment that you discussed. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5703	I thank the chairman, by amendment. Therefore, it is absolutely unacceptable to delete Article 28 from that argument, in fact, which the Government has delivered to us in its opinion. But the problem is, when the previous speaker tries to make such an insubstantial argument that some comment and seal this whole debate and imagine he dared here today to mention corruption. Of all the people sitting across from us, just him. Well, it would have been better if anyone else had tried to object, not the previous speaker, because when you type his name and his last name on the Internet, you get an amazing amount of material that points to corruption. Every day, one topic can be opened. I would like to, given that the subject of corruption he initiated, to point out how, I am now quoting a medium, how Kena and the Sutanovac damaged Smederjevska Palanka to build me a supermarket. Published on 23 August of this year. The heads of the Smederjevska Palanka municipality bought the Serbian Army House building after obtaining the consent of the Ministry of Defence. However, they immediately decide on the destruction of the building and the sale of land, bought in the tender by Delez Serbia and built its facility. When all transactions were made in the municipal budget, it ended in a minus 14 million dinar. That's what he says, and he's talking about how much he's actually invited to honor us here for some kind of corruption. He's using the opportunity to, let me say, the most inappropriate way to try to drag that mud and that mud minister sitting here today. One more thing when it comes to, it was mentioned in the debate in this amendment of privatisation "Luke Novi Sad", I see no way at all how they connected the privatisation of "Luke Novi Sad", I guess because the only port that remained unprivatised is. I must say that this law, the Law on sailing and the ports on internal waters, makes it very clear that ports are good at general use, and that with regard to port land and port infrastructure it is in public property and managed by the state. On the other hand, port operations will be carried out by private companies, but only by the activity of those private companies that acquire the right to carry out port operations, based on concessions, whether public private partnership or any other model. I don't see any problem with that. I would even add that when it is privatized that it will be the most transparent way possible. Unlike previous privatisations, why isn't it our fault? Some other parties also privatised "Luku Belgrade" and other ports, and we know how this was done and how it was done. So don't put anything in our charge that has nothing to do with this government or this ruling majority or the SNS. Even if someone hadn't read this law, if they hadn't participated in the principle debate, it's enough that he once read something, some inscription about it, to realize that this model is exactly the most efficient and transparent. I don't know what's going on with the MPs of a group, they're probably just waking up right now. For all these reasons, I suggest that the amendment be rejected to Article 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5704	You'll get the word of your colleague Djukanovic. I would ask the People's Messengers that while the other Messenger has his own exposure, they should not disturb him. The applause is usually given at the end of the speech as far as I know, and keep your enthusiasm and impressions until the end of the presentation. [[Saša Radulovic, from the post: Pluz is support.]] First, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5705	I'm advocating Article 107 and Article 108, the Honorable Chairman. You owe them any reason not to act like this. If they continue to be warned, to be thrown out, because this kind of behavior in parliament, such an insult to Parliament's dignity that someone in such a hysterical way, abnormal to the work of this Parliament behaves, and that you tolerate it and that they usurp the entire assembly and make a circus out of this distinguished home, something like that must not happen. On the other hand, there's an MP here, mentioned how they allegedly protect the minister from us. Those who, on the justice of God, arrested a man, held him in custody for 13 months. (Radoslav Milojic, from town: Who? You criminals. You. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: What does this look like? Injury of the Rules of Procedure. How can they call MPs criminals? ) I would ask that in the future, this is especially related to Article 107, so that you do not allow such people to insult parliament. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5706	All right, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5707	I'm advertising all the members of the Rules of Procedure, all the members. The previous speaker told the opposition that they were criminals. What's that look like? I ask you to warn him and give him a warning, for here you warn all the opposition messengers and warn us. He called members of the opposition criminals. It's not a language worthy of even the advanced, not even them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5708	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the leaders of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. Let's see who answered everything. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5709	I point out the violation of a 107 member who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. There's no room for hysteria in the assembly. There is no place in the Assembly uncontrollable sources of anger and uncontrolled sources of hate. The fact that someone jumps every time they mention what DS was doing, that's his problem. Mr Djukanovic only pointed out the fact known to all Serbia, that Goran Knezevic was arrested, held in custody for months and years under the orders of your then leader Bojan Pajtic. To make it look like the man was innocent. Whoever does this, I think he deserves that term and that word that Mr. Djukanovic said, but that's not the first time you've heard him say it. You've been practicing on people since 2003, only much more massive. That's where you arrested...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5710	I'd like to ask you to speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5711	So that's where thousands were arrested, and now there's a man, Mr. Goran Knezevic, who was held innocent in custody to turn out to be innocent. That's what the DS and I have the guts to say. The whole opposition didn't do it, that's what the DS did, like those innocent people arrested in Sablja in 2003 and practiced on living people fighting political opponents. Otherwise, the entire Rules of Procedure can't be advertised, because then that gentleman in question would read a member from one to the last member, he would read all the members.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5712	Thank you, Ambassador. I'm going to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then I'm going to give you a break, if there's no will to work, this is already the second day it seems like there's no will to work on the amendments. There's nothing. I'm running the session now. It's got something to do with the Rules of Procedure. So I'm not going into controversy with you, as my esteemed colleague, but I'm going to use the right of the Rules of Procedure, period, I've decided. That's funny, but that's how sessions run. There's going to be a break anyway, because I know how to evaluate the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5713	Thank you, Your Honor. I propose Article 108. And indeed, I ask you to warn the speakers when they do not speak the truth. I want to ask the minister if current president of DS Dragan Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5714	You can't ask, you can ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5715	... Has anything to do with what we heard here?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5716	Me, you can ask me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5717	All right, all right, I'm sorry. I'm asking you, does President Dragan Sutanovac have anything to do with these disgusting accusations? That's what the minister can say and confirm, and we're sure as hell not. And the minister knows it, and let him say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5718	Thank you. Now I've listened to all of you, so everything that's been said is fine. Did I offend the rules of procedure, if I hurt the Rules of Procedure, me or Arsic, we will vote. I agree that the presidents, the chairman, tend to violate dignity and hurt the Rules of Procedure, and MPs are completely innocent of it. They're talking about amendments, and those of us who run the session all the time are breaking the Rules of Procedure. So it's not the same. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Only you can violate the Rules of Procedure. It is, so I know, and MPs can act like this the other day. So I'm setting a break per article 112. Five minutes, just five minutes, and then we'll proceed exclusively according to the amendments. I guarantee you as long as I sit on this chair today, they'll just argue on the amendments, period, so I decided, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[After a break.]] On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs together, Milorad Mirčić, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5720	You've speeded this up a little bit, but good. On Article 29, we have really submitted an amendment and we ask that this article be deleted and that the bill should be deleted immediately and I should say why it should be deleted. Well, 20 months ago you were changing, this very member of the Law, and then in that position it could remain that the port area could cover several catastrian municipalities, and now you've realized it was just one catastrian municipality. What revolutionaryly happened to suggest this change? There is another thing that is changing in this article, which according to our criteria is totally unacceptable. This should now be the final position: ‘Extremely, if the applicant is required to extend the port area port operator referred to in Article 214. Article 5’, which is the one we were just talking about, “he is not obliged to deliver documents under Article 8, for cadastral parcels on which he carried out port operations until the day of entry into force of this law.” Here, you've cleared up the previous article yourself. So, in that part, there is a bankruptcy right to be given to those who participated in the process of privatising the ports. But I must disappoint you. You still haven't passed any sublegal act on port areas, and you're long past that obligation by law. So, according to some logic, something was passed under some law that was no longer in force. I'm just distracting you that in that vault, in those jobs you really don't know what's going on. There's also a counterfeiting of ship passports and documents and not telling you what it is. And as a result, we get these bills. This is a classic example of how someone imaginary is stimulated. I agree with those who spoke earlier. All port privatisations are problematic, people. All privatisations are problematic. You know the pain of privatizing Luke Belgrade. You know how many of their plots went down to the bridge, so from the bridge to there, so someone imagined, in the course of privatisation he bought the land that he could tear down the port there somewhere towards the Dobanovites, and that would sell as an exclusive space for some buildings, etc. I hope that process is stopped. I'm glad there's a provision that says it's a land of state, remains state, etc. And that the port's activity is kind of a concession activity. I agree, I don't attack that part, that we understand each other right away, but after 20 months, you're changing the same provision. So no one can explain why we can't have more catastrian municipalities than one now. Then, in the final view, whoever's already doing the work doesn't have to deliver the paperwork, we'll accept it. Now, that's the right acquired which is spoken of in the light of the bill, which cannot be acquired by law and cannot be acquired by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5721	Thank you. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5722	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDS-NPS parliamentary group has also submitted an amendment to delete this member. There are two reasons for that. First, it is absolutely pointless for these members of the law to narrow down the rights in the extreme case of those who need to decide on the formation of port areas. So there is no single reason that you have an existing provision, which says - you can form a port area in the territory of one or more Catastrian municipalities, now you change that you can only go on one and can't go on anymore. I just can't understand why you're reducing yourself. So, you didn't get anything from this member, except that if you happen to have that port area crossed over to the territory of another catastrian municipality, otherwise the Catastrian municipality has a different border and territory than it has local self-government, local self-government municipalities. You've had the possibility under the law that the port area could be on one or more catastrian municipalities, and now you're denying that possibility and you're saying that it can only be on one. It doesn't make any sense. If in practice you think it should be in one of the Catastrian municipalities, then you won't give permission to someone to be in several catastrian municipalities. It's a simple possibility that exists in the law, and you don't have to decide. So that's pointless. Of course, what's behind this? Behind this is the second attitude that you are changing, and where you say – especially if someone is looking for an extension, he does not have to provide the documentation that is otherwise required under the law. This is already, I don't know which one in a row, a member of which you are making deliberate exceptions to devising the law that was passed in 2015. So the law was passed in 2015. It has not been applied in practice for two years because the government of the Republic of Serbia has failed to apply it, has failed to form the port areas we are talking about. If they had been formed throughout Serbia, if the port areas had been formed, we would have had a neat system. No, that didn't work out in two years. Yesterday, we had one planted member here who said certain obligations should be met from 1 January 2017, and are now being postponed for 1 January 2018. Today we're talking about very serious things again. Minister Mihajlovic could not come. I suppose Minister Knezevic was not concerned with this law, but was doing so by Minister Mihajlovic, whose portfolio he is from, and even the question is whether we can discuss this law here when the minister is not here. We can formally-legally, but we can't, essentially. You could've brought the minister of military, and then you could've explained to us if the port area needed to be on one or more catastrian plots. So you don't want a serious debate because you need to pass the exception. What are the rules worth putting exceptions in each member? The rule is that when it expands, certain documents must be submitted in order to obtain permission, and then you say it in the last position – but it is not necessarily necessary. You're simply destroying a complete system set up by law only two years ago. I ask the ruling majority to think about it and to vote on the adoption of this amendment. Several opposition parliamentary groups have submitted this same amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5723	Thank you. So, the bill promoter is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia decides who will be authorized in front of the government to be with us at the session. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 30th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5724	Since these members we're tracking are in sequence and make up one logical continent, I'm just going to pick up where I left off earlier. What is changed in Article 214b, which is that Article 30. A bill of amendments and additions? The words ‘current port operators’ are replaced by the words ‘port operators referred to in Article 214(3) of this Act’. Who are they? These are the ones we were just talking about, which acquire some infrastructure rights based on what's important when the privatisation process begins, and it doesn't matter when the privatisation contract is concluded. So they're following it, logically going. What does that mean? This means that in 2015, when you changed the law, you didn't finish the job and now you're finishing those resolutions that need to be completed. Who promised that? I don't believe the government promised, I'll tell you right now. I don't think so. The government couldn't decide these things, not even if it had been decided, it wouldn't have made that decision. What's going on with the department's professional services? I think the jurisdictional judicial authorities are going to discuss somehow what's going on, who's what he promised, how he promised. I can't blame anyone individually from government officials, first of all, on government, on ministers. No, I don't have any proof, but that I have evidence that it was working inside the service at a lower level, through people who sell diplomas by the Ministry, and there are, there are double tanks where they pour fuel for their speedboats in Kladovo, etc. You can expect these things to be introduced by a kind of legal misunderstanding and confusion both with the government and with the ministry, and that we will be given the continuity of a change in members who obviously have one goal. What's the point? It is important when the privatisation process has started, not when the privatisation contract is concluded, and within the meaning of Article 214a of Article 3. which guarantees the property rights of a built-up infrastructure within a port. That's what this is about. There's no reason why after 20 months you change the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5725	Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 31st amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5726	I really don't understand why one provision is changing, and that's Article 215, the law where the ship's fuel supply can be done wherever you want, paraphrasing. I guess the fuel is poured in ports and docks. Why did you do this? This is gonna be a long time for pirates on the Danube. They're gonna be looking forward to it. I don't know if they suggested anything to change. Look at our international waterway, look at the interstate, look at what's left, the inland waterway, look at all this, so tell me where there's a need for fuel to flow in the middle of the waterway when we have ports and ports that are accredited, in charge and the only ones authorized to do it. Why are you doing this? Why are you changing this? I guess we're fighting something that might be the assumption of corruption. When you're fighting something that assumes possible corruption, then you're going with restrictive regulations to eliminate the possibility of coming into such a situation, and you're going with a change where you allow it to happen in every place. The port agency didn't come back to life. The Waterway Directorate is changing jurisdiction. I don't want to talk to you about port captains. As for a traffic safety inspectorate, I don't know if you have eight or nine inspectors. There they beat up all possible safety inspectors who know the job, and the rest of them are the ones who bought the diplomas, who have no idea what they're talking about. Who are you changing this member for? What do you want to achieve with this member? What do you want? That those known, who do these things, and everyone knows, because they've heard in some way, you're going to meet them. That's why we submitted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5727	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5728	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Knezevic, I don't think the ruling majority wants us to discuss amendments to this law, or they don't want us to discuss anything. Yesterday, she was Minister Mihajlovic, who was in charge of the law and told lawmakers that they were frustrated. This has caused controversy, and on the other hand we have heard qualifications that the MPs of the opposition are criminals. So there was no quality debate. Today we have no one to discuss with because Minister Knezevic is unable to respond...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5729	Ambassador, be kind and talk about the amendment, and then we'll see if the minister answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5730	Here, I'll tell you about this amendment, so I'd like Minister Knezevic to answer me. Why was this amendment rejected? It states in its explanation – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the performance of the port's operations can only be carried out within the designated port area. That's the first line in the explanation. The last sentence in the explanation reads this – to provide only this port service is not required to declare the port area. So we have two completely contradictory sentences that are in contrast with each other. This means that the government has decided to reject all amendments to the opposition by not resorting to any reason at all. The point of the amendment is that we are trying with this amendment to prevent the possibility of placing a gas station for ships in the city centre, in downtown Belgrade where the border crossing is located, where ships carrying out transport are parked, i.e. passenger traffic. It is located in the centre of Belgrade, located at the beginning of the "Begrada na Voda" promenade, or at the end of the "Begrada na Voda" promenade, and now it's as if someone drew this member of the law whose erasure we are asking for a pump to be there. It's part of where restaurants are, where citizens of Belgrade spend their time on Saturdays and Sundays. So it's an ecological disaster if it's allowed to be a gas station in one such place. Since 2012, you have been in power both in the city and in the Republic, there is not a single gas station for boats and boats. Now in one wrong way, you predict this member where it could be introduced, and you have failed to allow anyone who has a boat on Savi or on the Danube to pour gasoline for that boat at the arranged gas station. So you're incapable of doing anything and then you're putting everything off for a year, two years, three years, and I don't know how many years. Well, how many years should it take to arrange the port areas in Serbia and that we don't have every day to watch the ship roll over in the middle of the river, as some people drowned. That's what we solve by owning them to learn karate and aikido and have private security. Whose private security will be on those ships? So, please, we want to seriously discuss, let's discuss the arguments and see if one amendment of the opposition can be adopted, and most of all, everyone we listen to here is meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5731	Thank you. By amendment Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5732	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. By trying to show here that the government is uninterested in dialogue on this matter, to show that I don't know it, to take advantage of the opportunity of course that the resolution minister is not there, so the government has delegated the second minister, so in that I say, the vacuum tries to show that we are not really for dialogue and that we don't want to have an argument. Of course we want to, but what is missing is the lack of arguments and arguments that the previous speaker has been reading selectively, I have to simply read because of the citizens of Serbia, so I guess some things will be clearer. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the performance of the port of action can only be carried out within the designated port area of the comma, the comma, the previous speaker made the point there. We're talking about the port area. It shall always cover the area of the border crossing established in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the protection of the state border. In view of the fact that, except in the case of ports and ports, ships may communicate with the coast, only within the framework of international border crossings for river traffic at which certain time is held for reasons of integrity and the possibility of additional employment of operators specialised in this type of port services, the bill also allows for one of the port services to be provided in the areas of international border crossings for river traffic. In order to provide only this port service, it is not necessary to declare the port area. So, here it is very well explained, therefore, to provide this port service does not require a declaration of the port area, especially if it is possible to provide ship’s fuel supply services, according to the ship’s system. What's this all about? A complete replacement of thesis. Everything is well explained in this explanation and we just heard some things in the discussion that have nothing to do with the law at all, and especially not with this article 31, and about some catering facilities, pumps. So this isn't the case we just heard about. I invite you to, if nothing else, at least read the explanation carefully, because it all writes nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5733	Thank you. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from town: Replica. No, you can only talk about the amendment. This was the answer. So, you can proceed on the amendment. Do you want it or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5734	Otherwise, I think I'm entitled to a replica if I'm not properly understood by a colleague who's given an answer, who's not a proposing, so he can't give me answers. He's an MP just like me. A colleague reads the argument that is contradictory, one sentence says that the port area must, and the other is said to need a port area to perform this port's work. I understand that a colleague can read. That's not controversial, but he doesn't understand what I said, and he didn't understand what he read either. If you'd read with understanding, you'd realize there's a contradiction. I know you have no arguments, so this debate is going this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5735	Thank you. (Alexander Markovic, from town: Replica. There's no replica. You want to get the amendment? I didn't give a line or an MP, I can get you an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5736	I thank the chairman. Of course I didn't understand when the previous speaker kept talking about things that weren't the subject of this amendment. So the subject matter of this amendment is something completely different, or this member of the law. No one plans to supply the oil ships that we talked about here. It's not an intensity at all, it doesn't contain this member at all. This is about supplying the ship by the ship's system - the ship. And that's after the ship leaves for a safe distance. So, no gas station, no oil supply, none of that. I insisted that I explain it for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5737	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5738	And this amendment of ours is one of the proofs that the government actually wanted this proposal to look so massive and many members were completely unnecessarily changed or complemented. That's also the case with this article 216a. You have added here that the solution granting the port's performance authorisation is finally in the legal process and can be brought against it by administrative dispute within 30 days of the date of receipt of the solution. We've suggested that this be deleted. Of course, even if it was properly formulated as you wrote in the reasons why you did not accept the amendment, and you said it was because against the final solutions it could lead the administrative dispute before the Administrative Court. That is correct and regulated by the Law on General Administrative Procedures and Administrative Disputes and there was no reason to add it to this article, especially not to such a truly legal illiterate, foolishly, you said a solution that was granted the approval. What about the solution that rejects the request? I am sorry that Mrs. Mihajlovic is not here, we have nothing against Mr. Goran Knezevic sitting here, we know that the government has the right to determine any minister to represent any law, but yesterday we had a certain debate with Mrs. Mihajlovic. She said, among other things, that she doesn't know how to set up jobs, which means some set-up jobs. I wanted to ask her today, I assume you don't know, but please ask her. Does he have any information that Pancheva Luka was sold to a certain Puric, that's the one that was in custody. It was sold at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. It's said that for a gravel-carrying tow truck and a gravel-carrying tow truck, and only the land that that port covers is about 300 hectares. Yesterday, Mrs. Gojkovic, you weren't here, there were quite such inappropriate discussions between the minister and the MPs, so Mrs. Mihajlovic said I was frustrated. I answered her...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5739	Okay, let's not talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5740	Please, just let me finish my sentence. So I told her she was frustrated, probably because Vukic won't propose to be president. Today I am, and she's sure that's not going to happen, too, after the victory of Trump in America, which we sincerely congratulate him on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5741	Which is pretty much about Article 32. The bill - it's deleted. Then you'll call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, by the end of the session, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Alexander Martinovic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5742	I'm reporting for the amendment. I think that here continues the practice that began yesterday, which is that a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is attacking and insulting, that he is being instructed by something he has not said and that we are dealing with presidential elections that have not yet been called. I could say now that I'm underprivileged that maybe one of my fellow opposition colleagues is frustrated because...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5743	MPs, please on the amendment I'd like this session to lead in a completely different tone than yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5744	I agree, but when someone... Radoslav Milojic throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5745	Don't throw it away. I'll interrupt the session. I don't put up with it. So Donald Trump won, all right. Let's go to law now.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5746	I agree with you, Mrs. Gojkovic, but when someone insults the ministers running for SNS, I simply have to react. I don't think it's correct. First of all, I don't think it's correct for the ministers to be heard here as on the defendant's bench because someone read something in the paper or on social networks, and now whatever minister comes in here has to answer and explain why there's a medium or why there's been a tweet, or some post on Facebook profile. So it's a non-serious debate. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, it's said here, a lot of heavy qualifications have been used -- rough, stupid, illiterate, like this. The rule under the General Administrative Procedure Act is that any administrative act may be declared to be a complaint in the administrative procedure. That's the rule. But from that rule there are also exceptions and this clause contained in this bill is contained in a large number of laws in force in the Republic of Serbia and the clause says that in the event that it cannot be conducted, or that the complaint cannot be declared that the solution is at last, a dispute can be initiated within 30 days. (Miss Radeta, from the city: That's not what it says.) ) It says in the Law on Administrative Disputes, according to the Law on General Administrative Procedure. Imagine if every law copied what it says in another law, I'm going back to what I said yesterday, we'd have kilometre laws, we'd have 1,000-member laws. There's no need to do that. After all, Mr. Nejo Jovanovic also said yesterday, a good man reminded me, people, so there are unique methodological rules how regulations are made in the Republic of Serbia. If something has already been regulated by some system law, and you will admit that the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes is a system law, then there is no need for all these provisions to be prescribed in any other law or draft law. So that goes for it. That's what I said and my colleagues from the DS, maybe I'm not the best person to understand. So even before the law came into force, the law regulated the situations that we now pose as problematic. Now you're setting a problem - and what if you can't make a complaint? It's already written in the applicable laws what can be done. The administrative dispute can be initiated. The question has been asked a little while – what if the competent authority does not issue a licence within the time limit prescribed by law, or does not issue the required administrative act? You know that, you're a good lawyer. The silence of the administration. Right? It's already written, ma'am. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. ) Mrs Radeta, this is already in the General Administrative Procedure Act. So, it's already written in the General Administrative Procedure Act - the silence of the administration. You can appeal against the silence of the administration because it is considered if the Authority has not issued an administrative act within the time limit that a negative administrative act has been brought in. There is no act in practice, but it comes from the legal assumption that a negative administrative act has been brought, i.e. that your request is rejected and in that case you file a complaint for the silence of the administration. You can file a motion under the Law on Administrative Disputes and a lawsuit that triggers an administrative dispute over the silence of the administration. It has already been regulated by applicable laws in the Republic of Serbia. That's why I think the government's argument is too high and the government's explanation is in place. There are no legal misunderstandings here, because every law, I hope you agree with me, you have to interpret it as part of a broader whole, as part of a whole legal system, and you don't break one law out of the context and amend it and supplement the law and view it for yourself, unrelated to other accompanying laws. Then it's not a good interpretation. Then the government or MPs who can also propose laws should not propose amendments and additions but always laws from the beginning, new laws and everything regulated in other laws, and it has to do with the matter of the law to be literally copied in that law. Then we'd have the laws as phonebooks in New York and no one alive could handle it. That's why the law has to be clear, precise and only regulate the matter it needs to regulate. What is the substance of the application of some other laws is understood, because the one applying the law, the ministry, some competent authority of the administration, must apply the General Administrative Procedure Act, unrelated to the Port Act. He must change or in case there is a administrative dispute, so the Administrative Court must apply the Law on Administrative Disputes. That's not at all controversial, but it's already written. It's already been regulated. What has already been regulated does not need to be reregulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5747	The minister has an advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5748	Just an addition to Mrs. Verica. It says what you asked for - 30 days in law. It says – the solution to be granted for the performance of the port's activity is finally in administrative proceedings and can be initiated by an administrative dispute within 30 days of the date of receipt of the solution. The goal is to speed up the process. The deadlines are set, everything is prescribed. The rest was regulated by the Law on Administrative Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5749	The word is "Verica Radet" according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5750	This seems a little confusing. Now I don't know if it's writing or not. Mr. Minister and Mr. Martinovic, I'm sorry you didn't listen to what I said. So Alexander Martinovic's explanation is completely in place. It is true that what was regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act was not the need to regulate itself here and I said that the argument of the Government is why our amendment is not accepted in order, but it is not the law's supplement. Minister, you say -- it says there's an administrative dispute going on within 30 days, but I said this was a bad legal, stupid thing. It says – a solution granting approval. Not every time the approval is issued, sometimes the approval is not issued, it's refused. Mr. Martinovic, you're defending this badly. I understand, and it was obvious that you understood that I understood the problem here. Why would we, in the amendments to the law, that bothers us to write in the amendments to the law, add part of a member who's only in the beginning of a fake because we're thinking about treating us like the silence of the administration if we don't issue a solution? What you wrote in your explanation is proof that the amendment we submitted was to be accepted, that there was no reason to add a new position to this Article 216a. If you say that the final decisions of the Port Management Agency can be conducted by a administrative dispute in front of the administrative court, no one, any lawyer, is disputed, but why didn't you write it in the law if you wanted it to be something in the law that doesn't otherwise have to be necessary and I totally agree with you. You don't need something regulated by system law to add to these laws that regulate certain matter and that's why we say, Mr. Minister, if you have the authority to accept this amendment. It's completely unnecessary what's written in this Article 216a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5751	The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5752	Thank you. It's quite possible that Mrs. Radeta and I don't understand each other. My opinion is this, or my interpretation of what you have said, perhaps I am wrong – you think that the solution exists as an administrative act only when the approval is issued, and when no approval is issued then there is no solution. So there's always a solution, whether you're granted approval or your request is denied, but the solution as an administrative act exists. The solution can be positive, you can be granted approval, and it can be negative, not to be granted approval, but, in any case, there is a solution. The solution exists and this solution is an administrative act, regardless of its content. Whether this solution is positive or negative, it is now something else, but the solution to issue the approval is an administrative act, as well as a solution that rejects your request for approval, it is also an administrative act. Now, as far as this finding of yours is concerned, there's no need to write that the solution is finally in the administrative process and that an administrative dispute can be initiated against it within 30 days of the day of the admission of the solution, I already said in the first report, that it should, but it should be written. Why does it have to write? Because of this, Mrs Radeta's derogation from the General Administrative Procedure Act, so that any administrative act can be declared a complaint. Right? It's a rule, there are certain exceptions from every rule. Now, this bill treats this very exception, treats it by not being allowed to appeal, do you understand me? The first-degree solution is now finally, that's what it's all about. The automatic solution is finally. So what's going on with that? And then it's solved by the solution being finally in the administrative process. That means no appeal against the final solution can be made, but there can be a administrative dispute and it has to be written. It would be bad if it didn't write, because then we'd be in doubt what the right parties are. So, as soon as you have a derogation from the rules, you are legally required to treat this derogation, and here, the rules of the ZUP are waived, or the General Administrative Procedure Act, so that any administrative act can be declared a complaint. The appeal is not allowed here, and it is not allowed because it is nice to say that the solution is finally in the administrative procedure. The final ones are the solutions against which you cannot make a complaint. Since the appeal was not allowed and since the solution was automatically final, the government had to propose, in order to protect the rights of the parties, since the complaint could not be made, that a dispute could be initiated within 30 days of the date of receipt of the solution. What if these provisions were not in place, or if your amendment had been accepted? Now let's put this as a problem – the solution is finally nothing. What legal means can you use, and it doesn't say in the bill that you can run administrative slow? Because this is an exception to the rule that a complaint can be made. So this bill is good in general, and there is good reason why this amendment was rejected, because it is precisely the Government's proposal that protects the rights of parties. So, the government said -- the solution is finally, but even though it's finally and you can't make a complaint, you can start a administrative dispute. It would be very bad for the rights of the parties if this solution in the bill had not been proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5753	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. You have 01.02 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5754	Enough. I don't know why Mr. Martinovic is now talking about the appeal, the finality of the solution, no one has talked about it. Here, all the lawyers to hear, in this proposal writes – a solution that gives the authorisation to carry out port operations, etc., can be initiated administrative dispute within 30 days. We say that it cannot stand a solution that is being betrayed, it must include those who are being denied the request. If you wanted this to be written, then it should have stood – a solution that was decided on request to perform the port's work. If it were that way, then we wouldn't have any reason to intervene. We would think – it is too high, because there is a law on general administrative procedure and administrative dispute, but we could not have this remark that we now have. So this is a scrawny attitude, it's not good, it's not in line with the system laws, and I'm sorry that a colleague sitting next to the minister was suggesting that this amendment be accepted, so he got a head nod from the SNS bench, and then he also nodded that he wouldn't accept this amendment, and he should really.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5755	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5756	Yes, but if you had suggested such an amendment, you would probably have accepted it, but you suggested an amendment in which it said it was deleted. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: That is, it is best to delete. If you had suggested what you said, I would have suggested that you accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5757	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5758	Maybe now is the moment and it's unnecessary to report after the amendment. I don't think the amendment should be accepted because, uh, colleagues just said they were aware, this amendment actually makes an exception to the rules. This amendment, i.e. by modifying and supplementing a solution which is now granted approval, only now obtains the status of a final act against which there is no second-degree action in the form of an appeal, but receives the status of an act against which only an administrative dispute can be conducted. To lawyers, the use of words is clear – a solution which is granted approval. It's a solution to be decided, so we can't call it a solution that's not granted approval and a solution to decide on approval. So it's absolutely clear that it refers to the act being decided. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: that's what I said.) ) The colleagues, as it says in the amendment and supplementation proposal, stand – a solution which is granted the approval – means absolutely every kind of solution to be decided under this act. Thus, there was no need even for that grammatical correction that reads “decision. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5759	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. You've had time since authorized, the group's spent. We've got 3.01 minutes left from the authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5760	Well, since I cooked with that amendment, I'm glad I heard these things, but I haven't heard the answer to one question. Why wasn't what you're proposing already written? And how was this situation solved? Legally logical analogy that there must be some legal means, so if it's not an appeal, then it's a administrative dispute and it's been resolved. Now someone from the Ministry has decided to build it up a little bit and made a formulate mistake. So if it were written that the solution to this request was finally in the administrative procedure and it could be conducted in a administrative dispute within 30 days, that would be quite correct, but we also gave you a lesson in how to do it. But you didn't want to, but you simply said, "You refuse, we refuse, we fail, and we will come to an end." So if you accept the amendment, you haven't lost anything, but it's in use and it's in a much more quality way than this way that you want to build this up, because it's only going to bring us this confusion, about which Verica and a little something has said what's positive and what's negative.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5761	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5762	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have proposed an amendment that we ask for to be published on the Agency's website and the approvals and contracts concluded for the construction of port buildings and buildings, with a value of up to 5m euros. It is contracts worth up to 5m euros, and we believe these contracts must be published on the site in order to achieve transparency. Since the government has rejected this amendment and the ruling majority will not vote for this amendment, that means that the SNS is hiding something, it is clearly hiding in this area, because it gives us an explanation in which it says – there is no additional right to make the contracts public. I now call on the minister, since it is the Minister of Business to help us, because the Law on Privatisation also adopted the amendment to our parliamentary group, I think it was in 2013 or 2014, the Minister of Business was Vujovic then, and then entered the Privatisation Act – the Strategic Partnership Treaty is published on the official websites of the Ministry of Business and the Government of the Republic of Serbia within three days of the day of signing. So, you can publish privatisation contracts and you can't publish contracts when someone's given the opportunity to build, I don't know, port facilities. What's SNS hiding? This is the third or fourth amendment you refuse because you want to hide something from these amendments to the law. So, you have, you don't need comparatively legal practice, you have in our practice, you have in the Privatization Act to publish contracts. Why don't you let the citizens know what it says in the five-million-euro contracts? What are you going to do, who are you going to give these jobs to, how are you going to give these jobs, when you can't publish these contracts? So this implies that there will be theft and fraud in this area in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5763	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5764	What would our people say about what, a thief? You're always on your own, Mr. Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5765	I'll give you your time, just a moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5766	I've already been scared, Neca Konstantinovic will pick up, according to the Rules of Procedure. I can't sleep.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5767	Take it easy, so I can run the session. Turn off the microphone. You're giving yourself time. Take it easy. Natasa Jovanovic, I ask you MPs not to help me conduct the session. I have a question for the MP. Replica, right? You're looking for a replica. Ambassador, please, are you looking for a replica? Just so I know. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: I reported to talk about the amendment. () Absolutely, so help me to know the time we're taking.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5768	So, I answered the amendment. This is where they ask how? Well, I guess the MP can talk about the amendment. Sasa Radulovic thinks no one can write except him and his MPs. So I guess SNS MPs are allowed to say something. So, Mr. Konstantinovic, who imputs us that we're thieves and criminals or something we mess with, etc. says this - the solution to be granted for the performance of port operations is in the final administrative procedure and can be triggered by an administrative dispute within 30 days, and a solution is published on the official website of the Agency which issues an authorisation for the performance of port operations. The amendment makes no sense that it can't be more pointless and it's not about any mugging, thieving or crime. Imagine that every government authority in the Republic of Serbia, on its website, must publish, and ultimately, Mr. Konstantinovic, why did you not commit all the authorities of the state administration, when you were in power, that any administrative act issued must be published on the website of that authority, not only of this port agency, but of any state administration authority? These would be hundreds of thousands of administrative acts that would be published on websites of different administration bodies. No one alive could do their job, only the people of the ministries, by the authorities of the administration, could do it, that's to upload administrative acts on websites. That's why the government told you nicely that it's not done anywhere in the world. Why didn't you at the time when you were in power suggest that the courts publish their judgments on the websites? What's the difference? It's an administrative act, a court ruling, and it's an individual act. Then why don't you oblige the courts to publish the verdicts on the Justice Department's websites or on the Court's websites? So this solution that you suggested is in itself contradictory. You suggested it with one single intention will come someone from the Serbian government, whether Zorana Mihajlovic, whether Goran Knezevic and I will entangle in him and whatever amendment you submitted is always the same story – the government is incompetent, you could send the minister of military, you could have done this. We saw you send the minister. Your Prime Minister, when he talked about the budget, didn't put together five minutes. He hasn't shown up in the Assembly in four years, come on, God, one three times, and here you are raising, Malten, a uprising if every Thursday, which is not according to the Rules of Procedure, and when there's no session, the Prime Minister doesn't show up. Well, when there is no Prime Minister, then, just to come, just to come. And when he comes, then you run to the mice' holes. It wasn't my turn, either, so what now? As for the contract to carry out the port's work, I would like to, since Mr. Konstantinovic has put himself in the role of the prosecutor who is questioning someone. Ministers are responsible and he is the one who is a monopolies of justice and law and is interrogating ministers – and why you are not this and why you are not it. Excuse me, what does the contract have to do with the privatisation process? I don't understand that. How does an agreement on the performance of port operations have anything to do with the privatisation process? With the website of the Port Agency? So, does the Ports Agency conduct the process of privatising the ports? This isn't about privatising ports at all, this is about closing contracts, and it's about performing port operations. There's no talking about any privatisations. That's why SNS MPs are in a rather awkward situation. You know, it's very difficult to give meaningful reasons for pointless amendments. You make something up, something that doesn't even say in the bill, and we now have to kill each amendment by explaining that it's actually not in the bill. We heard about port privatisations. Well, who privatized the ports? Serbian Progressive Party? Alexander Vukic or someone from the regime until 2012. The banks of the Sava River, I see how you arranged it. It was a dump of ships, dead rats, and places where the junkies gathered. That's how you cared about the banks of the Sava River on the territory of the city of Belgrade. And also about the coast of the Danube in Novi Sad and all the other places where you ruled. But there's SNS MPs, and there's a minister in a lot of, one, a situation that's not quite common. Now we have to answer every time and explain that you're actually making up and that the bill says something that doesn't actually say. Neither writes the privatisation of ports, nor is it a practice anywhere in the world that whoever issues individual acts must publish those individual acts on the website. So, where does it go? Is it published in Germany, Italy, France? Who publishes individual acts on their websites? General acts are being published, and it's known in what way. In the proper official ballots. Administrative acts, court rulings, so please tell me Mr. Constantinović, the country in the world that publishes it on the website. Here, you asked the minister, the man can't answer you, maybe you can. Tell me the country where the administrative acts are published on the website of the authorities that brought these administrative acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5769	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5770	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 106. You were the chairman who said you'd be keeping an eye on the new archaic you'd be setting up. What the previous government did, did not do the previous government, which is MPs' intentions, is really not a topic. There was so much insult without need. So, talking about amendments that are pointless, so you have a chance to say that, there's really no reason to talk like this. So there's a proposal for an amendment, it can be discussed, nothing else is a subject, it wasn't a replica, it was just a discussion of the amendments. You said in the beginning that you would introduce a slightly different tone. Come on, please, let's stick to it, try civilized and normal to talk about this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5771	The honourable MP has been equally civilised and discussed on the amendment, as has been civilized and discussed by the applicants of this amendment. So, he's hiding something, something that's muddy, and what's hiding behind it and so on. We need to be and we understand everything, but if these are the arguments made by the rapporteur of this amendment, then the arguments of the SNS Group are those that would not accept such an amendment. Bring the Band-Aids to the next session, and let me share with the ruling majority MPs who are here to defend the legal solutions and make up the ruling majority. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Saša Radulovic, from town: Yes. I thank you. You're still in the system, do you want to talk about the amendment? You can pick up the amendment. Why the replicas? (Nenad Konstantinovic, from town: Replica. ) I did not give the replica to the MP Martinovic, because he did not consider it an insult to what you said about SNS, something muddy, hiding, etc. (Nenad Konstantinovic, from the place: I think he insulted me, said I was a thief. I don't think so. You can discuss, I don't think, period. So I don't. You can discuss it by amendment. Do you want it or not? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5772	Thank you. You don't think, President, that I was offended by Martinovic for telling me I was a thief? We heard in his presentation of things that have nothing to do with the amendment, where he talks about things that are not the subject of the agenda, and he tries to cover up with that long speech that the SNS will not accept an amendment that requires the publication of contracts worth up to five million euros, on a website of agencies related to the construction of port buildings. So someone who doesn't allow such an amendment to be accepted, he's hiding something. Such a member of the law exists in the Privatisation Act, and let you Berlin, Paris and London, I am not there to teach you whether or not there is, it is in our legislation and it is something that is defended by fraud, a defense of theft, and it is the publication of such a contract. You didn't even want to publish a contract on "Belgrade on Water", you didn't want to publish a contract on Er Serbia either. You will not now publish and systematically put into law and explain to us – you cannot publish contracts worth up to 5m euros in this country concerning Serbian citizens. These are not contracts between private persons, they are contracts with the state and they must be public and must be published. Do not hide from Serbian citizens what you are doing and how you have the money of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5773	Just a moment now, let's see - Sasa Radulović, Aleksandar Markovic, Sonja Pavlovic, Zvonimir Djokić and Aleksandra Tomic. Sasa Radulovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5774	Thank you. By amendment. The MP group was enough to support this amendment on transparency. It really doesn't matter if the previous government or government didn't do a good thing before. If it's a good thing, it should be adopted. All contracts should be public, not just you up to five million, and of course, it should be introduced into the Budget System Act. But right now, we have one law that we could fix. I don't know the term for a secret exercise of public authority, using public authority. In the state of Serbia, everything should be public. If anyone wants to sign any contract with the state, it would have to be made public, and I think this amendment is going in the right direction. I am also pleased that MPs belonging to MP groups who may have previously been in power understand this and advocate this policy. I think that's progress for all of us, not something that we should honor anyone. Transparency is critical. We have to have transparency, it's the best anti-corruption dam, because then all interested people can see all the information on any contract and anything in the state. Also, as far as administrative acts are concerned, it's not such a big deal to hang an administrative act on a foreigner. It takes much longer, of course, to think and to adopt a single administrative act, so that, to say that it is very difficult that after thinking and decision has been made in some ministry or some state administration, it has yet to be imagined and published on the Internet, I don't think it stands. Therefore, transparency is very important and it would be very good if the government supported such an amendment. It would be a new signal if something really changed in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5775	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5776	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, the explanation for this member in general speaks of port operations. Contracts on port operations aren't just building buildings. Therefore, you need to look in a broader sense at what the port's activities are. Secondly, let's take, for example, port operations in general, contracts that were until the moment of privatisation of all ports that are today practically owned by certain legal entities that have passed that so-called. The privatisation by 2012, so you will also see that investments are not up to 5m euros, but they cross even threefold when it comes to not only objects. Secondly, the question is, what are port facilities? That's a first and a basic question. It is not just buildings, and if you take reports from earlier agencies, the privatisation agency's report on ports that are privatised, you will see a lot of what is surprising, especially by the proposings of this amendment. It is surprising that many objects have been converted into business-building facilities, not for the purposes of port activity at all, but for the purposes of hospitality and certain activities that are not at all in the jurisdiction of the port. Isn't that right, Mr. Radulovich? That's right. (Saša Radulovic, from town: Correct. ) Now we, first of all, have here from the point of view of the promoter a new concept in general of the needs of port operations and the need for such amendments to be published on the website. It would be all right if we knew what was done so far and how the proposer treats the port's activities in the first place. That's why I think this amendment doesn't primarily talk about corruption, that's why the promoter always says what keeps him the most down, probably, and that's what we have to decide here today. If the port's activities are defined by law, and it is precisely known that the activities are cargo and unloading goods, from which the port has certain benefits through the collection of its taxis and fees, then the essence of this is not just investment in buildings, but in equipment that does so. Therefore, someone who wants to invest and has a certain relationship with the state, to define the overall operation of the port through equipment, through facilities, through a general way of functioning to which modern states do so, such as Luka Vienna, Luka Budapest, through the collection of certain taxis that the state will also have through the collection of VAT and the collection of large benefits, then it is not just an investment in buildings. I don't know why the proposer only grabs onto objects that's one function of port activity. Therefore, this amendment should therefore not be accepted and should not accept at all that this type of contract should be an integral part of the website of certain ministries, but should indeed be entered into certain financial reports through foreign direct investment, which will ultimately be discussed by the Committees on Business and Finance here. And that should be transparent, in a certain way, but not this way, Mr. Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5777	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5778	Thank you, Chairman. Of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. We heard from Mrs. Tomic the key arguments as to why they would do so. However, it is already becoming a practice of this promoter to propose an amendment, and then, in his oral explanation, he starts some other topic, and what is characteristic, he spends all his time implementing the subject of privatisation. As SNS MPs, we have no reason to run away from the subject of privatisation. I think some other MPs, I think it might be more useful for them to avoid the subject of privatisation. We just heard, and I'm glad there is a consensus with some other opposition parliamentary groups on how to privatise Luke Novi Sad will be done. I'm glad we reached that kind of consensus. I'm also glad to admit that this will be done in a transparent manner. But the theme of privatising the ports is best seen as how they did it when it comes to Lucy Belgrade. So the Anti-Corruption Council wrote in its regular report, which otherwise deals with individual cases, only if they point to a broader phenomenon that particularly highlights the sources of large-scale corruption in economy and politics, and one such case is the concentration of ownership that was carried out in the A.D. Luka Belgrade in late 2005, which remains almost undetected in public, but whose effects are just beginning to feel and will certainly be in the coming decades. This case is particularly interesting, because it has all the characteristics of so-called. secondary privatisations, i.e. a process in which actions are carried from employees to the richest people in the country with good contact, under the name of politicians and state authorities. What kind of contact are those politicians? You can figure it out yourself. Luka Belgrade is privatised in the process of taking action from the company "Warldfin" from Luxembourg. Guess who owns this company? Marko Miskovic, Ivana Miskovic, Ivana Veselinović. So, Vice-President Delte and members of the Miskovic family, then Milan Beko's second half, etc. By taking over the actions of the company “Warldfin” bought 40% of the shares belonging to the state and 1,745,521 shares, etc. Action fund. The value of the action was cut by the state then, the Ministry of Economy and the Privatisation Agency, and was 300 dinars, while the book value was 490 dinars, and the actual value was 1,700 dinars per share. It's an example of how they privatized. That's why I'm saying, I think it's more useful for some MPs not to mention the word privatisation at all today. I wouldn't go any further and call for an amendment to be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5779	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5780	I welcome Minister Knezevic and Mr of the Ministry and I must express my great disappointment that Mrs. Mihajlovic is not here today with us, because there have been a number of questions about the amendments she was about to give an answer to today, but you, Mr. Knezevic, try to answer my question. I'll talk about this amendment to transparency that I support anyway. The ministry of construction, spatial planning, traffic and infrastructure cannot have different arches for certain areas covered. For example, all last year they boasted of a centrally united electronic procedure in the process of obtaining building permits. So that's how you do it now. It's all published on the APR website. Everything's completely transparent, and it's standing there. I don't see any reason why in the area of traffic, this time in internal waters traffic, everything that was related to it would also be posted on the websites or on the Ministry's site so that we would really have insight into all these contracts and all the developments concerning not only construction buildings, land, but also the accompanying infrastructures. So you can't do something in one piece and consider it a quality, that's the whole procedure, and at the same time in the same ministry, you put some fences on that something up to a certain amount should be not transparent, I really can't understand it. I would like to get an answer to that question – why does the ministry, which as its highest quality, put this whole procedure in the process of building permits, not work for traffic or for any other area covered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5781	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic, first and then a National MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5782	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would also, above all, like to welcome the minister who has taken on his weak shoulders to change Minister Zoran Mihajlovic who, of course, always tries, whenever he can, to avoid being in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for Luke Belgrade and its privatisation, perhaps Minister Knezevic who was in the DS at the time could tell us something about it and direct us to the details of the privatisation. On the other hand, I really can't understand the double arches that are constantly applied in this Assembly by the SNS when privatization is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5783	MP, can I talk to you about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5784	You got it. The essence, not only of the amendment, but of the complete stories of this agenda point, was it about our remark - do we, by involving the private sector in certain strategic state issues, get or lose? Since it was about privatising Luke Novi Sad and other privatisations of strategic state resources, including the private sector, coastal maintenance, waterways, etc., I'm just running here for the key dilemma. So, is the private sector always the best solution to strategic state affairs? Is privatisation always the best solution to strategic state affairs? Why does the state keep getting out of development policy? Why does the state leave so much to the market...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5785	MP, please run it in the form of an amendment, then we could fit in somehow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5786	That's what we've been doing, the Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5787	Just be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5788	That's what we did. So we're trying...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5789	The 32nd is changing and it's changing, so there's a way, if that's all right. Set up the privatisation and everything, I'll let you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5790	When others talk about privatisation, it can, and when I say it, it can't. We must have some unique arches. A colleague Markovic spoke in detail about everything, except the amendment. You didn't warn him once. What I want to conclude, which is our problem with what we support a large number of amendments, which, even this one, has decided to change something in this legal solution of yours, is precisely because we would have much more control over what is going to be a future privatisation, if you want me to clarify the point of this story and that way. So, we had a problem with the former privatisations that way. We don't want to have a problem with future privatisations. Open that transparency to the end, and let's talk about where the role and the importance and benefits of the state are. It means how the state will protect strategic resources: water, agricultural land, telecommunications, and how it will include the private sector where it should be included, but not at the expense of state interest. What's the amendment? I didn't understand you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5791	He asked what the amendment was.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5792	What's the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5793	What amendment are we discussing now?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5794	Let's do this now. Let us introduce amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure by which you will determine what the opposition will say, and the opposition will not have the right to speak what he thinks.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5795	It's in a fairy tale sold to the public, and in reality, this is a debate about amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5796	That's right. The same debate should be conducted by a colleague Markovic, but he did not lead, and you allowed him to.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5797	You're wrong. Don't fight. Please talk about it. So the amendment adds members and attitudes 7 and 8. The only change required is that solutions are published on the official website of the Agency. You can talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5798	I agree with the chairman, and I just said I support the amendment for that reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5799	That's right. I'm not going to get into your essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5800	When someone else was expanding the discussion, you allowed it, and when I expand, you don't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5801	Spread out, but it's the right of an MP to throw me and ask what the amendment is. It's not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5802	It's okay. I don't mind throwing it away and especially indignity. These are normal things in congregation work. So why is transparency important to us? Transparency is important to us, among other things, to know whether, in its time, Miroslav Miskovic financed Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic, because it is not correct from your party, when Miskovic financed them, while they were in the SRS, then he was good, and after he moved to SNS and came to power... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5803	Would you like me to set some time off, so we can apologize a little bit? So, how we got through this law, through the web site, through the Trampa now to... (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: Mr Markovic. I'll take a break for lunch, I don't care, but... (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: I agree. I do. Are you done with the amendment? Should a solution from the administrative process be published on the website? We should go back to Tramp and Miskovic. Let's get serious. (Bosko Obradović, from the place: Trampa did not mention. Only Miskovic. I'm really confused. I don't know, and I'm confused, so I don't know what to do. It's almost a regular break. That's it. Is that right? The MP Sasa Radulovic tells them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5804	Let's go back to the amendment on transparency. We heard the argument of the SNS MP. If I understand them correctly, I will repeat them, and they can correct me. That they don't support this amendment on transparency, because it now concerns port and sailing, and we don't have transparency, what was in the past privatisation, so because we haven't had transparent privatisation contracts and everything that's been going on around it, and that's true, of course, some of the objects that were portly converted into residential, sold land, everything's been done, but it can't be an argument that we don't have transparency on the other side. Just because we didn't have transparency, which the privatisation contracts themselves weren't transparent, which wasn't a transparent list of assets, property rights, then we had robberies and abuses. That is why the amendment is also going in the right direction to introduce this transparency, to help us, to never again do the things that have happened to us. Today in Serbia, we have very few contracts that have been published anywhere, and this would be a huge step by the ruling majority and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to finally bring this transparency back to life somewhere and to see how it will actually cure corruption in the country. So the arguments don't stand that way. The truth is, we haven't had transparency in the past, but that's not why we wouldn't have it today, especially since it's no problem for the state administration, which would be one positive step that everyone would support. Here, let's say this is a good example so that we can all support something that is good for the citizens of Serbia, whether we are a position or an opposition. We really want to support the government's good proposals. This could be done by the government itself. Let's say, perhaps not in this law, to commit itself, but in the Budgetary System Act, to say that all contracts signed by the state, that all administrative acts must also be published on the websites of competent ministries and agencies. That would be a positive and constructive shift. I urge you once again to consider this amendment because it is good for the citizens of Serbia and a good means of fighting corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5805	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, so Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5806	By amendment, if you please. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of issues open here. Just one brief note, it's about what Mr. Bosko Obradovic said, who he's funding. I don't know who Miroslav Miskovic funded, you were financed by Dusan Petrovic, by giving the Association of Agricultural Economists of Serbia 60,000 euros and $84,000 in 2010, according to an old project. Then the Minister of Agriculture was, if I am not mistaken, Dusan Petrovic. So the Dvori are funded by the DS, by one contract giving the man 60,000 euros, and by another 84,000 dollars. It's about funding. As for the publication on the sites, the opposition gentlemen are in step to convince me that this is a good solution. Why? Here's why. If this solution already existed in our laws, I wouldn't have to torture myself to find, for example, a solution to the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, which is Sashi Radulovic in 2011, and again in 2012, a measure of public notice and fines of 100,000 dinars. Here, this is the solution, so one administrative act passed under the General Administrative Procedure Act and where good luck this was posted on the Agency's website for the licensing of bankruptcy managers. The whole of Serbia could see that Sasa Radulovic had concluded with him a deal on the provision of accounting services in all companies, and there were some 14, 15 in which he was a bankruptcy manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5807	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5808	I answered after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5809	But you've replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5810	I answered the amendment and I'm done. As for Belgrade on water, a joint investment contract for the Belgrade water project since 26 April 2015 was published on the Government of the Republic of Serbia's website. So the agreement on Belgrade on water was published on the government site of the Republic of Serbia. It's from 2015. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia, Etihad Erveyz and Er Serbia concluded in 2014, published on the Government of Serbia's website, listed in the Government of the Republic of Serbia under the number 48-7445 of 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5811	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5812	Here I go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5813	I have to take your time for that. Please respect me. I have to take your time off the group because you cheated on me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5814	Can I ask you something? Since they said the contracts on Belgrade are on the water and the contract with Etihad Ervejz are secret, I will give you these contracts, and you will give them to Mr Konstantinovic and Milojic and Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5815	Would you please do that? I have to make a record to figure out what I got. I didn't get the Kekec, I got the contracts. I don't do everything for yelling, but something has to get into the record, because we're a parliament, not a voluntary singing society. So something has to stay, not to be given something anonymous. It means a joint investment contract, a water-based Belgrade project, between the Republic of Serbia and the company "Belgrayd Waterfront Capital Investment", etc. The second was concluded with Er Serbia, a framework transaction contract. That's the material I'm supposed to deliver, tell who, MP? (Alexander Martinovic, from place: Nenadu Konstantinovic. ) Mr. Konstantinovic. If you'd like to approach the table, I'll give this to you, and give it to the other MPs who are interested in this. Here you go. Now he's hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5816	Thank you. Article 107. – the use of offensive expressions, the presentation of an evaluation of private life. I was just thinking that we were changing and turning the other leaf and I was hoping for the chairman, I was rooting for you, and we were sticking to the subject, one of those solid times. Even a constructive discussion took place, and then something happened. I don't know what happened. A colleague of Martinovic seemed to have been launched by someone. Five minutes ago, he was able to stand up and communicate perfectly well and discuss with the agenda, and now suddenly, completely upside down like I don't know what happened. I ask you to return to the session's lead as it seemed before fellow Martinovic answered the word last time. I also don't understand why you suddenly allowed something, why did you let this tyrado of his? Why didn't you interrupt him, too? Why did we interrupt that beautiful series of constructive discussions? Why didn't you react? I can't understand. I'm saying, I was rooting for you. I was full of hope that we would really turn the other leaf and then this would happen. Thank you. Please explain, and if you don't accept it then you'll vote of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5817	Yeah, we're gonna vote anyway, 'cause it's not worth anything to say... Marco Djurisic throws. We'll have a break at 14.00, regular. By then we'll be replicating, we'll have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, etc. I get it. It's not a problem, it's allowed. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You too? (Branka Stamenkovic, from town: Explanation? Now I'm not gonna give it to me. Vicu – Rules of Procedure. They're all impatient. Don't, please just cheer for me. You said you were going to war with your child this morning. I'm not a party that goes into wars when it goes to parliament. Don't cheer for me. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what kind of war... 249 MPs to get me as much as possible, drink coffee, feed the cat and go to war. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: I don't know where you got this about the war.) I don't know either. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: There is no word war, nowhere.) I guess the impact of gamma rays on the dazzled brides. I don't really know. I ask all 249 MPs and the ruling majority of the opposition to respect me as well. I tried to break up Alexander Martinovic. I did turn it off at the end. Since your noise and the clapping, you haven't heard. (Branka Stamenković, from the scene: You did not turn off his microphone. You know what it's like to be a colleague of Arsic's yesterday - the cycle. So you could do the same to him, the same to him. He's a little more expedient. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the post: You let him go. He's your pet. He can do anything. He's allowed everything. He's more radical. I have more subtle methods. (Radoslav Miljičić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) I understood that this was the answer to the discussion of Nenad Constantinović, who does not appear at all now and who talked about these privatisations and mentioned these contracts, etc. But in Serbia, everyone hears only their side, and from that we are all very aware. [[(Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: It was not a replica. That was an insult.]] There was no insult here in Parliament. You have to define a private life. Private life is one thing, and what we do as bankruptcy managers, public officials, etc. It's not an insult. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the post: Ratings are not allowed. I can't be a censor. So I can't censor even when you say something, or when the other side says it, because there are bosses and MPs to rephrase each other, and it's not my role to replicate and to deal with grades. That's not the role of the chairman. Mr. Radulovich, you asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5818	Thank you. As for these administrative acts from the Agency's bankruptcy site, they are, of course, public and it's a very good thing, so this is a very good argument why everyone else should be public. However, both have been abolished. So, the first one Mr. Martinovic waved to and from this second one. There are judgments that have been lifted both because they are completely nebulous because they speak of things that are simply not true. Neither does capital, nor does anyone take money. Salary was paid to employees who worked in accounting. Since they have the whole object, I don't even know how they got to it, they could read this part. However, this manner of conduct in the congregation shows weakness. We talked about transparency, we talked about something that was supposed to be good. This turned out to be a story that uses offensive expressions, because it's not just a question of bankruptcy managers who are not the subject today, but words like: a liar, a thief, a known criminal. I suppose the presidents of the congregation are also clear that these words cannot in any way be subdued under discussion. So this should be sanctioned. These words should not be spoken in the Serbian Parliament. If anyone has anything to say, there are press conferences, they can go to political shows, they're off. (Alexander Martinovic throws.) The solutions have been abolished. I can tell you five times, and you'll have to prove it to the court because all the solutions have been abolished, they're illegal because it's corruption. The agency was corrupt, which worked against trustees' interests. Of course, I was in conflict with them, so they were looking for a way to get me out. I repeat, these discussions really shouldn't be allowed. This is not what the congregation is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5819	Thank you. And in the last term, we insisted that Yes, you can. [[Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Can I replica?]] Just a moment, please. Easy, we've got all the time you want. We're working. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Can I do the Rules of Procedure? And you'll get a word in the Rules of Procedure. It's all right. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: Can I by law, not by the Rules of Procedure? I'll do it. Take it easy. He's got the Rules of Procedure and the law. Let's have a little respect for all of us sitting here. So we tried to bring a dictionary of words that shouldn't be used in this House. In the last term, some participated, and then they gave up, etc. Try again. Don't let us be the ones to think this word is an insult, and this word is not an insult. You have in the parliaments of Europe. Copy something if we don't want to be innovative and those words are 50, 100, 200, come on, and we'll react. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Ovu – liar and criminal? ) It is a proposal and it is agreed on by the Administrative Committee where all the heads of the parliamentary groups are. So, you're going by law, and Radoslav Milojic is going by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5820	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I don't really know why you don't want to or don't want to see us answer the word and raise the Rules of Procedure. I know that many in this room, especially those across the street, are bothered that Dragan Sutanovac doubled DS support in just a month. I'm advertising Article 108, as I said, and in order for us to function normally here and normally work, I have an appeal for SNS, I know it takes you 20 years to convince you of something...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5821	What member to know?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5822	Article 108.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5823	Dragan Sutanovac is in article 108?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5824	Remove Mr. Martinovic from the post of head of the parliamentary group and there will be no problem because he is an incident figure here that causes problems, insults the opposition, insults ministers, insults power. He simply like Mrs. Mihajlovic, who escaped from today's debate, does not know who he is in conflict with. He's in conflict with himself probably. So it is the only solution to introduce order in this parliament, to send Mr. Martinovic as in communism to a higher function, that he is adventing and letting us work here in the interest of the citizens because we all have good wages for this job that we are doing, and that he no longer violates the dignity of this Parliament and let him say who financed him since 2008-2012? That's what I know, and so does he.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5825	And this is all a member of 108th and a violation of the Rules of Procedure? You did everything you tried to say, and I didn't interrupt. I want to release all MPs. Now, since no one's going to deal with the law today, since it's extremely fun for you here to do everything but deal with the law, there's nothing left for me but to end this debate and set a break, but a break in Article 112. So I'm setting a break. You're not correct, and I'm not even going to ask you about hurting the Rules of Procedure because you've replicated and done everything... Article 108 has nothing to do with Dragan Sutanovac, or what you said, or who funded him. Now it's a break. We're having fun and we're resting. A few minutes until I figure out you've calmed down and you want to discuss the law. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: What is the break?]] If you don't want to talk about the law, I'll take a long break.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5826	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Would you please just tell me the basis of your call? By amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5827	Thank you, Your Honor. The essence of this amendment, which was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, is to ensure greater transparency. That's the point, it says in our amendment proposal, we added one point, that all the approvals received and contracts are published on the site. Since this isn't the first time we've proposed this kind of work principle and we've advocated greater transparency, we've done it in the past, and in this law, a year ago, we had the same amendment. What happens every time, unfortunately, when a debate on such an amendment comes, first the government rejects it and then starts discussing some past contracts, some stories, and then the discussion goes away, we go into debate, we don't talk about the essence, and that's how to increase transparency in the work of the state authorities and thus reduce corruption. That is the essence, and I cannot accept the arguments that stand in the government's reasoning, why the amendment is being rejected, because these are the only arguments that we can discuss. These discussions, who, what, when he privatised something, did not privatize, will not take us anywhere and will not move Serbia one single millimeter forward. Please, the chairman, there is no minister and I don't think it's okay to discuss it without a minister. I believe he's around somewhere, but it would be good to have him around when we discuss it. What is the essence of why this is good, we have managed to ensure, through public pressure, that the government in some cases publishes some contracts and that they are available. Let's just say, that's how we could see when the contract was signed, before the elections, about the purchase of "Smederevo Ironworks", only here on 700 and some side, through a business analysis to see that the management of the Ironworks in four years, from 2012 to the moment of sale, made a loss of over 400 million euros. Only in the last year, 2015, when the genius, best management came from abroad, the management for which the minister kept refusing to publish the contract, which we and part of the public asked for, as did the Trustee, so he also charged the fine, which was paid out of the citizens' budget, we never got that contract, but we got the results. The results are 145m euros in losses, only in one year. If that contract had been published, then perhaps it would have prevented that loss, perhaps the public might have responded, because the leadership that is today run by "The Iron" under the foreign owner seems to be irregular and that management has said - we are not responsible for the loss, but is responsible for the government and someone from the government, but the story has been removed and it is not talked about in public. That is why it is essential that these attempts to increase transparency, because this is a way to reduce corruption and start Serbia's economy and improve the lives of citizens, is essential. All these stories of yours are blurring and running away from the subject, who, when, what he was doing. That won't get us anywhere. So, we're asking now to publish a contract, in this case, in this law contracts concluded by the Port Action Agency and we don't see that anything can be disputed. If this contract is concluded in a transparent process, public procurement, or I don't know how, how can it be found in it by some element that is a business secret that can't be published? It is illogical and therefore it is necessary to accept this amendment and in any other law we will insist on this principle of transparency. Unfortunately, the government will, as usual, reject us so far, and the consequences are bad for the citizens, for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5828	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The People's MP, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5829	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't need an amendment of MPs who were in power until a few years ago to force the Serbian government to publish contracts. So the contracts are already being published with your amendment or without your amendment. I only gave you two contracts - a contract relating to "Belgrade on Water" and a contract relating to JAT Airways and Etihad. These are two contracts that are on the government site of the Republic of Serbia, they are no secret contracts, I just printed them out and gave them to the president of the National Assembly and asked him to give to Mr Konstantinovic, who claims the contracts are secret. The contracts are not secret, the Irons contract has a thousand pages, they are also on the Serbian government site, but now I cannot harass these girls up there as they work in the parliamentary group to print you a thousand-page document. You can find him yourself. So nothing is secret, not "Belgrade on Water", not "Etihad", not "Zelezara". Everything is transparent, everything is public, everything is on the Serbian government website. Now, I agree with one piece of exposure from the opposition colleagues. Needs transparency, needs the public to know why Serbia has come to these economic problems it has come to. She didn't come overnight, she didn't come in three days and she didn't come in six months. It came for a period of time, which lasts, God, in Serbia, for at least 12 years. Here, Mr. Sasa Radulovic said that I'm lying, making up lies, telling the truth, misleading the public, etc., so he said that this Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers knows nothing, that it's corrupt, that it's like this, that it's like that. Okay, maybe that's really how it is. I now have in my hands a solution to the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. So, now to ignore the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, I have a solution to the Court of Commerce in Belgrade since 25 November 2011. So SNS was not in power, Alexander Vukic was not the Prime Minister. "Saša Radulovic from Belgrade is being resolved as a bankruptcy manager in the bankruptcy case over the GP New highway in bankruptcy, from Belgrade. This is usually just one in a series of solutions where Sasa Radulovic was relieved of the duties of the bankruptcy manager, with the next explanation, I will not read it whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5830	Mr. Martinovic, please just come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5831	Here, I'll be right back. The proposal was submitted for the determination of the uncontested fact, which stems from the explanation of the resolution of the Disciplinary Council of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, that the bankruptcy director Sasa Radulovic is co-founder of the Legal Person E-business Service, D.O.O.O. from Belgrade, which he hired to provide accounting services in the bankruptcy case over GP New highway. Well, get on with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5832	However, I ask you to return to the amendment to Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5833	This is everything, Mr. Milicevic, on the grounds that the public in Serbia knows what the state authorities are doing, but what they are doing now, but also what they did when others were in power. Let us be completely honest, and let us say, we are for transparency and when we are in power and when we are in opposition, and not only when we are in opposition. Now I'm going to read you a part of that transparency when they were in power. It's 2009. Says – Proposal sent to the Privatisation Agency, creditor of the bankruptcy manager Saša Radulovic in the debt bankruptcy process, social enterprise The first Serbian sugar factory "Dimitrija Tucović", 1898, Belgrade, etc. is seeking the engagement of the E-business service D.O.O.O. from Belgrade to provide accounting services. Well, he got consent to the Serbian sugar factory "Dimitrija Tucović", so he got consent to the social company shoe factory "Moda" Kovacica, so he got consent to the DPP "Lune Milovanovic" Bavanište, in liquidation, so he got consent to the social enterprise shoe factory "Moda" Debeljača, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5834	I agree with you completely that transparency and truth are important, but I ask you to return to the amendment to Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5835	I'm going back, the subject is the public, the theme is that people need to know what public function holders are doing. Now, the Privatisation Agency, and in 2009 in all these companies that were in bankruptcy, makes the same solution that gives consent. It shows – a proposal to hire the company E-business service D.O.O. from Belgrade, Student Square No. 15, home number 20584378, represented by Director Tatjana Radulovic, at bookkeeping, by the conclusion of a bookkeeping contract for the period from October 2009 to the end of the liquidation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5836	Mr. Martinovic, I still ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5837	I ask you, is this all transparent, is this all in line with what the amendment's proposing requires, which is that Serbian citizens know what the state authorities are doing. Mr. Milicevic, what am I trying to tell you? All of this has not been published absolutely on any site, not on the Agency's website to license bankruptcy managers, not on the Privatisation Agency's website, not on the Ministry of Industry website. So it wasn't published anywhere. Why? Because it's about crime. Crimes 2009, 2010 and 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5838	I'm gonna have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5839	We are now trying as MPs to show the people why Serbia has come into an economic situation that is almost unsustainable and why we are facing the economic problems we are facing. Because people from the DS, people like Sasha Radulovic robbed this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5840	Mr. Martinovic, I agree with you that transparency is important and that was one segment of the amendment that we were just talking about. You tried what you were talking about to bring into context with the amendment submitted to Article 32, but I do ask you, however, to return to the amendment to Article 32, which was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Of course, I heard you from my colleague Milojičić, and you will get a word in the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5841	Mr. Milicevic, first of all, I am advocating Article 108 to the order of the session of the old chairman or his deputy, i.e. at this point, unfortunately, you. Is it possible to interrupt every MP of the opposition, turn off his word when he doesn't talk a little bit about the subject, two seconds and you rule out his word. Mr. Martinovic, utters all these insults to the entire opposition, for ten minutes, you must not take away his word. I know that the fear of an SPS is that it doesn't take off from the government big, but look up to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic who today said that everything that Vukic is doing and opening, that she did DS in 2012 and started. I know you are the young lion of the SPS, but you learn from Mrkonjic, from Ružić from those people who are right and who have the spine and who have their own word. Don't learn from those who can't look at Alexander Vukic, let alone Alexander Martinovic. Imagine what you have done in life when you fear Alexander Martinovic. Well, more humiliation and more insults than that don't need to be done. Better not to live than to live like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5842	I'd very much like to take Mr. Milojicic to the hearing with you, but right now I'm trying to run a session, and you won't let me, and I don't want to have a dialogue with you. As you can see, I did not exclude you, and you are an opposition MP, and I have excluded the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic. I told him three times and begged him to return to the agenda and eventually I had to turn him off regardless of being head of the SNS parliamentary group. So a fair attitude toward all. Don't worry about the SPS, I'll talk to you about it when I'm in the assembly benches, and not from here, but unlike you, we have someone to study from. Thank you, Mr. Milojich. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5843	I thank the chairman. Several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, so the most horrifying member of 103 has been used by the previous speaker, but he is constantly hurting Article 109 and Article 5. Item 3 because it interrupts the speaker in the exhibition and throws, or interferes with the speaker, waving here and arms and legs all day long, shouting, throwing, insulting, etc. Mr. Chairman, I understand his frustration, an absolute understanding of some frustration I have, they're used to losing, they've lost again in one election, not directly, but where their representatives participated they've jinxed even the American elections. Here, Balsa Bozovic from the Democratic Party's office in America, making selfies, jinxed him and led to another loss. But please tell him to get used to these losses that the Democratic Party will lose everywhere and in every place. Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: I am most horrified. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5844	You may be offended but you must also know the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and know that there is no replication on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Before you came forward, you will be given a word by the Rules of Procedure, before you were called by MP Neđo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5845	I thank the chairman. I will first and foremost report on Article 104, bearing in mind that the SPS and the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group are mentioned. We in the SPS parliamentary group are otherwise aware of how sorry DS is that he is not with us in the coalition and especially that he is not in power. But that regret can still remain only regret and nothing more than that. As far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5846	A colleague for a moment, please. You've got your word on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5847	I said I'm reporting under Article 104. I have the right to a replica first of all as deputy president of the parliamentary group and let me just finish. A kind of dissatisfaction or regret by the Democratic Party as a former regime cannot in any case destabilise what cannot destabilise, and this is one principle and responsibility in the work of the government where the SPS is participating with the capacity needed for the government to function. And those who regret not being in government, I'm not sure they'll wait for that day to be back in the same, at least not in the near future, given the atomisation of the DS that continues not only from month to month but from day to day, so it would be better if they were to think rather than deal with the SPS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5848	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was first reported by MP Veroljub Matic. Please, the system was first reported by a folk MP whose name I said is not up to me, so it stands in the system. So this is how, since the colleague indicates that the system is not transparent, and I want everyone to come forward and get word for any injury to the Rules of Procedure or Replica, we will now delete the list and ask the MPs to apply for the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5849	Dear Chairman, you see, and now, I call on Article 106(2) to read – no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him except the president of the National Assembly, etc. While Mr., the Honorable Mr. President of the Parliament Group, Dr. Martinovic spoke, the gentleman from the DS, I think his last name is, here he throws himself to me now, Milojic, standing, you can turn the system for three minutes, and for 30 seconds he was standing all the time, waving his hands, throwing away and misbehaving. It's not what he's done now but what he's done all day. I ask you to warn the honourable MP, here, see how he's doing now, because I will consider that even more difficult things have broken. So, please, here and now throws it away, warn it, and say that there is no one right to rise up, to stand up and walk in the National Assembly while the Messenger of the people speaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5850	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, honourable Members of the People, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of up to 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5852	Mr. Arsic, that's Article 33. It's a bill of law. This applies to Article 217. It is this member after a member who regulates the authorisation to perform his duties. We had to submit an amendment to this article of the bill, because we are practically following all those amendments that we have previously submitted, and as regards that basic member of 214. What's this about? A port operator who has acquired property in the process of privatisation, i.e. as a transformational property on the continent and a certain part of the port superstructure, and is now associated with previous members who define both real estate and infrastructure. What's going on with the change in attitude one? The text, as well as the port operator referred to in Article 214 paragraph 5 of this Act, shall be added, may carry out port operations without the approval referred to in Article 216. That's the member we've had a lot of discussion about before. So he's not required to meet the requirements again, and that's where it's acquired law. We ask that this section be supplemented by Article 33. The draft law is practically deleted, but to delete the second part of that member of the bill that makes a supplement in the position of the 2nd basic text of this Article 217, where the text of the privatisation contract, which is obtained, is replaced by the text "privitation procedures on the basis of which they acquired property rights on parts of the port infrastructure", and we are now returning to what "if the property privatisation process is started after 4 July 2003". So, after July 2003, it's unrecognized. Prior to that, if a procedure is initiated, it is acknowledged and thus is equated with someone who has already acquired a right in 2015. Of course, it seems this small now, both raving and complicated to explain to the public, but those who have this text in front of them can understand what it's all about. We are literally following that first initial amendment that concerns this kind of privatisation, and therefore we have suggested that Article 33 be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5853	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5854	It is now practically a member of 225's basic text. Now to make a connection, he says – approval is intolerable. It is considered to be an authorisation for the operation of port operations, that it cannot in itself be transferred, an authorisation containing one partial right to perform that port's activity, but then a new position 2 is now being inserted – the approvals are being obtained in the event of a status change with the port operator of the authorisation, that was also in the previous text, and some other specifics are added. What's the point of this? The point of this intervention, which is carried out under the law by the promoter, is to completely unauthorizedly enter the property and other status matters of the port operator. You know, in principle, I also drew attention to a detail. The property status of a legal person may be subject to prior approval or prior notification or subsequent notification or to the provision of some consent only to those persons, with capital companies, in particular shareholders, who carry out activities in the area of banking, insurance of the property of a person and other things that are normally within the jurisdiction of the National Bank of Serbia, where the property structure affects because of the capital they work with. First of all, they work with money, insurance. There is no such structure of capital in the port of action. Why? The port activity is a cargo, loading, storage and all of those accompanying services for landing ships or visiting ports, etc. So there is no material and legal reason to question capital ownership, since it has already been defined in the APR and especially to ask someone on the side or to give consent or to inform themselves otherwise. Information is enough because it is, in principle, the public and the entire business of the Agency for Business Registers, where the property structure of each legal person stands exactly. I think you've come out here outside the scope of something the laws simply allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5855	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5856	You see here you tried to correct one mistake that was becoming in the basic text of the law. This error occurred practically in February 2015 when the second amendment and addition of the law was made. But one mistake was made. By correcting that error, you are narrowing down the possibilities that exist in the basic text and that is why we have submitted this amendment. Of course, there is some principle that can be more, it can be less, but we believe that this article should not apply that principle, quite contrary, you should continue to retain that greater authority that you have long ago and you do not need to shorten it yourself. What someone, somehow, presented to the Proposer, is that it is the principle of agreeing or correcting some technical error from an earlier process, these changes and additions. But it's not just that, let me tell you, it's not just a team before, that you didn't have in mind and these changes that are now the subject of debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5857	Are you finished, Mr. Krassic? Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Anybody want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5858	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to this article and it practically refers to Article 227. Article 227 provides for a way for the Agency to initiate the procedure for the award of port concessions and in Article 227 states that this port concession procedure is to be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. It is therefore important to implement them in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. You now want to change this member, reintroduce the exception and say – the exceptional agency can initiate the procedure for granting port concessions on the proposal of the interested person, based only on the letter of intent. So you're trying to bypass the procurement procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and award port concessions only on the basis of a letter of intent, the Agency will decide for itself. That is why we have asked to delete the position 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this article, because these are all exceptions that completely undermine the rule and the principle that the concession can only be given under the Public Procurement Act and the Public-private Partnership Act. That way, you want to introduce a small door to the possibility that only someone based on a letter of intent, who makes deals with the Agency gets a port concession. So, this does not now violate the transparency we talked about and where my colleague Martinovic finally gave me two of the contracts that I mentioned. We want the system to be established, not to receive mercy from the ruling majority, that if their mercy is such, they give us a contract or they don't give us a contract. You gave me two contracts, but you didn't give me a contract to take down an object-depositing company on the Herzegovina Street in Savala. I guess there's a contract like that, too. So we want all contracts published on the website. We want there to be no exceptions to the rules. The unmistakable explanation on one side of the assembly board is absolutely amazing, says this amendment is not in line with the Constitution and the legal system. So, one amendment that wants to rule out the possibility of an exception is not in accordance with the Constitution. This means that the whole law is then not in accordance with the Constitution, because the rule is incorporated into Article 227 and there is no need for an exception to this rule. So please take another look at this amendment. I also ask the Proposer to accept this amendment. Do not introduce a small door to the possibility that the port concession is given without public procedure, a procedure behind a public-private partnership or a procedure that exists to grant concessions. He can't just deal behind the back of the public and behind the back of the citizens. On the one hand, they agree here, this letter of intent and you award him a concession, and then that contract must not be published on the site, because it's as my colleague Martinovic says, you'll get a lot of work on all the sites if they keep publishing something now. Of course everything needs to be published. Of course every contract should be published because it concerns the public and citizens of this country. Of course it has to be systemically solved. Of course, judgments should also be made public and citizens can see who makes and what judgments. It's a way to prevent corruption in this country. I think with these two amendments that SNS won't accept, she doesn't really want to fight corruption systemically. It's all the fog we've been listening to for the past four years, if you don't want to bring into the law a systematic way to fight corruption. That is why you do not want the integrity plans for political parties to be adopted, so you do not want contracts to be published on the site, so you do not want the procurement procedure to be respected when giving the concession.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5859	Col. Martinovic, by amendment or replica? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: By amendment. ) (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: He by stupidity. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5860	Okay, I'll pretend I didn't hear. Someone has a constant need to throw something away and insult it, thinking it'll make them look smart, but I don't mind. (Radoslav Milojic, from town: Who? You're worthless to have a man leading the controversy with you. I don't know if you're more of a political party and who your president is, so I don't want to deal with you at all. Your parents won't listen to you, either, so I'd be leading the controversy with you. I want to say something that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia, simply so there are no doubts. There's an MP here who doesn't have two months, absolutely doesn't participate in the work of the National Assembly, and then someone tells him it's good to show up a little bit, to say that SNS is one criminal and thieving organization, that everything they do, does bad, stays one day in the Assembly, talks about each amendment one and the same, doesn't matter that the bill doesn't say, invent something, lies, it's only important that you say the word SNS as many times, to say that Alexander Vukic is a dictator, that the man who is the worst Prime Minister in Serbia's history, etc. Because of the citizens of Serbia, therefore, because of citizens, not because of colleagues sitting across the street, who are such authorities that even their colleagues do not want to listen to them, they are talking to themselves and they are arguing with themselves and they are trying to explain something to themselves, therefore because of Serbian citizens. No act of mercy has been done to anyone. The contract on "Belgrade on Water" and the contract concluded between the Republic of Serbia, "Etihad" and JAT erveiz were published on the government website of the Republic of Serbia. I just asked the girls who work at the SNS parliamentary group to print out these contracts from the government website and I gave them to Mrs. Maji Gojkovic with a request to give them to the gentleman who had just discussed them and he did it. So it's no act of mercy. That's what anyone can do. And we don't need amendments to those who have ruined Serbia by 2012, they haven't published a single contract. You know, by 2012, there was no Internet and no people could publish any contract, no administrative act, no court ruling. Do you know when the internet appeared in Serbia? When Vucic became Prime Minister, there has been an Internet ever since. Since then, everything has to be published on the government website, and by 2012, or in 2014, there were no computers, there was no Internet, there was no social networks, there was nothing. It was all a secret. From 2012 to 2014 a maltene menu of the Prime Minister, the minister's menu should be on the site and that former regime gentlemen can read it. What do I mean? And without these amendments, we do not need their amendments in order for the Serbian government to publish contracts that are of strategic importance to the Republic of Serbia. These contracts I printed out for you today, any citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has the Internet can look, read and learn about their contents, and for "Belgrade on Water", about whom you've made unseen mystifications, as something is secret, you don't know, you don't know who the investor is, how much money, there's a contract on the site. With the 2014 "Etihad" the same thing, mugging, secret, Vukic hides something, there he is on the government website. I would also print you a contract on "The Irons", but there are thousands of pages. It's a shame to waste so much paper to convince an MP who represents himself. Here in the National Assembly to spend a thousand pages to print his contracts. So, all the contracts, concluded by the Serbian government and "Zelezaru" and "Etyhad" and "Belgrade on Water", are on the government site of the Republic of Serbia, but what we would like to know – why is no single privatisation contract in Serbia published by 2012? How is it possible to have one archaic when you're in power and the other when you're in opposition? We want to know why while you were in power since 2001 when the privatisation process began, until 2012, you published one single privatisation contract for any company in Serbia? I'd be very interested, I think, in all the citizens of Serbia, if it were for example. A contract for the reconstruction of the House for Children Disrupted in Development in the municipality of Novi Becej was published on the site of its time by the government of Vojvodina, where two million euros were spent? The home wasn't built, that so-called home. The castle "Hatterland" is not renovated, but remains a ruins. I'd like to, for example. Liked and all Serbian citizens would like to have a contract for the job published on some site. It's not published. But we don't want to act the way you do. So without your amendments, we publish contracts. We don't need people who led Serbia to tell us by 2012 - publish a contract, but we do it without you and all contracts are available for "Zelezara" and "Belgrade on Water" and "Etihad". And any future agreement of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia will be published on the Vada Republika Srpska site and there is nothing secret, there is nothing contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens. All these contracts have enabled Serbia to develop economically. All these contracts allowed us to have surpluses, not budget deficits. All these contracts made it possible for us to have GDP growth. All these contracts made it possible for us to have a drastically reduced unemployment rate. It's still tall, but it's much smaller than in your time, and we have nothing to hide. Only a lunatic would hide contracts that brought good to the citizens of Serbia. There's something hiding when you're firing people from work. When 400,000 people are out of work, it's normal to hide contracts. It hides when you give two million euros to children distracted by development, and homes for children distracted by development nowhere. That's what he's hiding. I understand that. Who can hide the contracts that allowed us to be one of the most prosperous states in Europe despite the difficult economic situation we have inherited from you? So, not that we want to publish the contracts, so it's in our interest to publish those contracts. Those contracts bring SNS points and you don't need to tell us. We know that ourselves. All these contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have brought good to all citizens of Serbia. What bothers you, that you couldn't do what the SNS-led government did, that's your problem. The fact that you ate 12 years of life for Serbian citizens, it's an accident for all of us, but we're acting the opposite of you. Every contract concluded by the government is good for the citizens of Serbia and every contract is on the government site of the Republic of Serbia. There is no act of mercy, only to have a little goodwill, a little free time, and thank God you have it, I see that you are a nonstop on social networks, you have a good Internet connection, "Vaj Fay" is here free, you are free to enter the government website and every contract and for "Gelezzara", "Etihad" and "Belgrade on Water" you can read all this. Nothing's a secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5861	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5862	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 108. - the order of the session is the chairman. You were obliged to warn the previous speaker. I know that he did not know and had no one to teach him, not to say – distracted children, but children with special needs, and I ask you to warn the previous ignorant not to insult these children with special needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5863	Mr. Milojicic, I don't know, this is the most pointless violation of the Rules of Procedure so far. I don't really have an explanation. Professional expressions and expressions used by our people can also be used. According to Branka Stamenkovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5864	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2). A colleague, Martinovic, right to tell you, is a walking serial offender of Article 107, paragraph 2, and about when I see that I already have a reaction as my colleague Boskovic when my colleague Atlagic, who knows that he is going to advertise Article 106, so I know that he is going to be a member of Section 107. As he answered the word, he began - a liar, a thief, a criminal, a liar, a criminal, a liar, a thief, a criminal. It's not his fault, Chairman. He can do it. It's your fault you let him do it. You took the word out of my face yesterday, turned off my microphone. You let him go eight minutes to insult us, to evaluate memories of his former, former and former government, and I don't think we have a constructive working atmosphere here until we all agree once that we should stop evacuating memories from the past and transfer each other to what happened, but to turn to the future once and for all and talk about topics. Again, it is not my colleague Martinovic's fault. I hold the chairman responsible, in this case you, for allowing him these orders and for not shutting down his microphone as I know you're capable of doing, since you did it in my case expressly yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5865	Mrs. Stamenkovic, I didn't understand your violation of the Rules of Procedure either. I didn't hear those expressions that a colleague of Martinovic said. He only responded to the discussion Nenad Konstantinovic had. This is where it came from yesterday, and from your MP club, the finding that I took it from you, and I didn't take it from you. This very fact tells us how much you really and in what way you understand Parliament's work, and I would draw attention to the MPs of the DJB Group that it is not the Rules of Procedure on the agenda, but the law, and if they want to report and participate in the work of the National Assembly, let them read the laws. Of course, it's good to read the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for this because I see that some of you who go to work are getting ready for war, wishing for war. That's what they publish and make out with kids. Thank God, Serbia is a peaceful and stable state and I don't understand such findings. According to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two days I keep trying to advertise the Rules of Procedure by different members. Now Article 106 of Section 1 has been broken where the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. We discussed Mr. Konstantinovic's amendment and indeed, a respected colleague, head of the SNS Group, on two occasions, in a relatively short time, in his first address, he spoke for 6.18 minutes, and now 8.25 minutes about something that has nothing to do with the agenda. With all due respect to the political option that used to be in power, which I know reliably has a phenomenon of both anterograde and retrograde amnesia, because they don't remember what happened a long time ago or what happened recently. I beg you, colleague Martinovic, don't cause us who want to work, to suggest more. That's clear, and in this room and out of this room, let's do some work. It's a very collegiate request, because we're wasting a lot of time, and we've proven it, and we all know it. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5867	Thank you. I don't think there's been a breach of Article 106. Col. Martinovic spoke as much about the subject of the agenda as the applicant spoke. So there's no speech. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to plead? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5868	I thank the chairman. The 107th crude violation of the dignity of the National Assembly by Mr Milojic, but what is more important is that they are severely injured... . (Branka Stamenkovic, from the scene: He was a member of 107, I advertised him. I beg you to restrain them, please. It's very important. The feelings of both Serbian citizens and thousands and thousands of children with developmental disturbances were harshly hurt by Mr Milojic, who played with children's feelings with developmental interference and insulted them in the most miserable way possible. And if there were any morals, he would now apologize to his children in Serbia right now with developmental disturbances. So, he did not deny that there was a theft, the heterland robbery, home construction for children with developmental disorders. He did not deny that there was the most monstrous theft, but rather bothered that Mr. Martinovic defined the concept of children with developmental disorders. I repeat, if he had any morals, as he didn't, he would immediately apologize and think about resigning, so. But I'm used to it, I know he doesn't have morals and he doesn't care. What does he do? He's dating, hanging out with the starlets, about what it looks like, Mr. Chairman. (The emissary shows the photograph. ) This is a characteristic painting of him with a starlet, where he spends the money of the Municipality of Smederevska Palanka. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5869	My colleague Markovic, please. Now, here's the deal. Since I see that MPs here do not want to discuss the law, but the Rules of Procedure... . (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I am mentioned, even my picture was shown here. They're obsessed with my teens. It's a business thing. My fellow MPs, will you let me say something? Before we move on to work, let's get back to the beginning. He spoke to counterpart Konstantinovic about his amendment. After him, Aleksandar Martinovic called and said that the amendment, there was no need for the amendment, because the RS government is publishing all the contracts it concluded, and then deliberately went into breach of the Rules of Procedure to completely avoid the topic of the agenda. If someone has advertised the Rules of Procedure, since it is now throwing me, to say that these are persons with special needs and that it is an insult to them for calling them persons distracted in the development, which is an old term that has been used, I cannot understand any other way than the desire to politicise this debate as much as possible, i.e. that the more the MPs report for the word, the more they'll be in front of the cameras, making a circus here in the Assembly. So, I will no longer tolerate at any single moment, that anyone abuses the right to apply to the Rules of Procedure, from whatever parliamentary group they come from, and whatever... (Employees of the MPs' group applauded enough. I thank you for your support. No more applying for a word in the Rules of Procedure, no more. Does anyone want an amendment or not? The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5870	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest that this amendment is not adopted, because it is simply obvious that the amendment promoter, not only did he not care about what he writes, but also about what he is trying to deregulate with this proposal for eradicating attitudes from 5 to 9. In fact, the proposal to delete the views of 5 to 9 of this member of the law would be completely contrary to the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, and I will remind the promoter that the law was passed in 2011. So, I don't understand at all, except for the need to get another minute for some kind of political story in all of this, in this part of making, I call it a hygienic amendment, deletes itself. Sometimes the "wipe" has its purpose, but there is absolutely no basis at this time, no purpose of proposing such a thing, because in the end it would have been subject to the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, so it is absolutely pointless to make such an amendment, not to say that it is also assessed as an amendment that is not in line with the Constitution and the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. Should the promoter be reminded again that just at the time they were part of the ruling coalition in the Public Private Partnership Act, they adopted such a provision. Now I don't understand a change of attitude when it comes to the possibility that what hasn't been initiated is an appropriate procedure for a public tender, that whoever's interested can start the concession initiative on his own. Why do you suddenly change like that? What's that? Do they know what they were doing, how they conspired, how they were stuttering, and now, for that reason, suddenly, their conscience worked to stop it? I don't see any room for that. It is a clear provision and the Law on Public Private Partnership and the Law on Inland Waterways and Ports, and I think there is no room for any ambiguity. The vagueness is obviously merely trying to part of the opposition, which is totally unstructured in this part, not taking care of the interests of Serbian citizens, simply getting a minute or getting a tiny point, not counting on it, however, there are those who can follow what they are doing and what they suggest. When I answered my word, I would like to share with you one of my knowledge, which is that, in fact, Donald Trump, when he saw that he was losing to Hillary the other day, I came up with a way to win today's elections, or yesterday's elections, which is to finance the way of some jinx to emulate Hillary and her candidacy and, in fact, Donald Trump was to blame for some of them participating in the election headquarters...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5871	Mr. Komlensky, elections in America are very important, but they're their internal affairs, so I'm asking you to do that. How did you identify yourself in that? First of all, you're not authorized, you're nothing. The right to replica has Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5872	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard everything in previous discussions in the Rules of Procedure and in the presentation of fellow Martinovic, just haven't heard why the SNS introduces an exception to this member and says that the Agency can initiate the procedure for granting port concessions on a proposal from an interested person based on a letter of intent, not respecting this law and Article 227, in which it is prescribed that a port concession must be awarded under the Public Procurement Act and under the Law on Private and Public Partnership. So, answer us a question – why are you introducing at a small door the possibility to bypass the Public Procurement Act and the Private Public Partnership Act when giving port concessions? We're against it. Respect the law you brought yourself two years ago. Also, respect that the citizens of this country want to know what you are doing and that everything must be published if you want to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5873	According to the amendment, the first MP, Sasa Radulovic, slowly. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5874	Thank you. We will, of course, support this amendment and these questions remain unanswered. It would be good for the minister to answer why he is running away from how it was done by the Law on Public Procurement and concessions, and this is a forwarding solution. Secondly, which is why it is not accepted transparently again, because it does not just say "expect" here, as the colleague noted, but says – the Agency delivers to the Ministry of Business Affairs and the Ministry of Finance Affairs, a medium-term plan set out in Article 1 with clearly demonstrated the estimated economic effects of implementing planned concession contracts and requires it to be published on the website. This is transparency. So if you're really pushing for a fight against corruption and for everything to be public and transparent, that's how it should be, right, it's got to be published. As far as this whole story of the government publishing everything, of course it's not true. The contract with "Er Serbia", there were five contracts, the government published only two, three remained hidden. Then, in addition, the contracts that were subsequently signed and signed between "Er Serbia" and Belgrade's airport, which has significantly damaged the airport, have not been published either. So, the story of transparency really doesn't stand. We'd like it to be so that we can commend the government. So we're calling on the government to do it, so it's to publish all the contracts. Mostly the roof is published, and the detailed ones, in fact, are not published. We should leave that practice. One example is, until I was a minister in the government, we published every month for the previous month exactly how much money was spent, to whom the money went, the list of legal and physical persons, put up all the contracts. So I'm calling on the government to do it, because at the time I was a minister, no other ministry wanted to follow what we set as a standard of transparency. So I should go back. This amendment is not only about making a special case and not bypassing the Law on Public Procurement and on Private Public Partnership, but also about introducing transparency, because these plans, in the medium term, on concessions, as well as in economic effects, are publicly announced so that all citizens can see it and that the opposition could also support a transparent and good government work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5875	Something I don't believe in. The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5876	I see I've been here all day, because apparently... Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: No, only during the day. ) Yes, thank you very much, because it was obviously the least discussed about the law. Apparently, most MPs haven't read enough of the law, amendments and additions to the law, and then we're just getting into these situations. We have already shown this several times when you have not finished, or have not spread it well, and here, here, specifically for this amendment writes nicely – the Agency can initiate the procedure for granting port concessions on the proposal of an interested person for realization. To initiate the procedure and the procedure for granting a port concession on a proposal from the interested party for the realisation of a specific port concession shall be subject to a law governed by public private partnership and concessions. Only the launch goes that way, and then the public procurement goes, everything that requires the procedure. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5877	He has no right to do business. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: How am I not entitled? You have no right. You have no right. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: By Business, Arsic. You have no right to the Rules of Procedure. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: As I have no right, what it looks like. Who are you to read minds? I'll give you my word, but I'm distracting you. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: You are obliged to give me the word. ) I draw your attention to the application of Article 103. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5878	Did I get the word? Mr. Arsic, a member of 107 has been violated and Article 27 has been broken. I called a couple of times, and I said I was calling about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You answer to me as I have no right. You cannot judge whether I am right or not, whether I am right or wrong until I exercise my right, and that is the right to receive a word and to indicate within two minutes which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured and to indicate in which way he is injured. There's been multiple injuries here. Your first injury, so you don't give me your word. It's undisputed. You didn't give me your word, and you brought judgment that I had no right before I explained it. There can't be a cleaner injury. The other thing, Mr. Knezevic, has no right to say that it is obvious that MPs have not read the law and do not know what it is. He's not here to lecture us, he's not here to question the MPs. That's inadmissible. When will you once as chairman protect the reputation of the National Assembly and place ministers where they belong? We are the People's Messengers. Ministers, we answer to the people, the citizens passed sovereignty on to us, we are directly elected, some in spite and indirectly, later, but mostly directly. Ministers have been elected by MPs, they account for us, and we account for the citizens of Serbia. Even during the DS and the authorities of these quasi democratic parties, it turned around. The minister when he comes, he's like a white bear. He says what he wants, he talks all he wants, he can do what he wants, and he criticises the MPs, and we can't get word to say it, or at least point to an injury when it's made.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5879	My colleague Sarovic, what I've broken, the Rules of Procedure can be taken under Article 103, which you haven't even advertised. Yeah, and I keep trying to do that, too, but fellow MPs won't let me, and I don't see anything wrong with the minister saying that the whole article is being read. What's so controversial about that? (Nemnja Sarovic, from the post: No, he said the MPs did not read the law and do not know what it was about. Well, I would understand if it were your amendment, but this way I really can't understand. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. ( ) All right, the National Assembly will declare itself. The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska has his word on the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5880	No, this isn't an amendment, I apologize, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 116. And I tried to answer it before, but you didn't give me your word, and as far as I know, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority. Article 116 of the Rules of Procedure, order at the session of the National Assembly, applies to other participants at the sitting, therefore, the minister insinuated that we did not read here the law and Article 9 paragraph 6 or the notice is made to the MP if he uses curses and offensive expressions. I'm really going to ask you not to use one of the most sensitive social groups, and these are children in a political debate. And correct terminology, it is children with developmental difficulties. I'm really asking you to take care of it. And as much as anyone cares about certain sensitive groups, it is very clear how many people with disabilities can participate equally in the work of the congregation. Believe me, I think someone sitting across from me is going to succeed something that didn't work out for the Russian doctors, because you're causing me such impulses that I think that one day at the end in this assembly and I'm going to walk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5881	There are many of us with or without special needs. (Branka Stamenkovic, from the site: With developmental difficulties. ) Don’t get me any more, for if I’m disgusted by something, it’s that some things are being abused for political promotion. No one here bothers to do the work of a MP and we are working in harmony with our ability to provide all MPs with the same treatment. But the same treatment doesn't mean that someone has to sit in the front row. (Saša Radulovic, from the post: The fourth parliamentary group should sit in the front row. That doesn't say anything, which you're throwing away, Mr. Radulovich. (Sasa Radulovic, from the place: What did I throw? If I tell you what you threw, then I'll have to give you a warning. (Saša Radulovic, from the place: Repeat to hear the citizens what I said. ) Nowhere does it say you have to sit down, your MP group. You can't explain anything. What you had to say, you did. Since the provisions of the Rules of Procedure apply to the Minister, he too has the right to respond when attacked. I don't understand what you want, to tell what comes to your mind, and then the messengers on the other side don't answer you? Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? All right, he'll come out. No more business. We've finished the Rules of Procedure, because if there are two commercials going by the Rules of Procedure, reports that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, I don't see what they're doing. The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5882	I had no intention of offending anyone, and I wouldn't want anyone to find themselves offended by what I said, because I've had the opportunity to sit in these benches several times myself, I know how hard it is, I know how responsible it is, and I know how much it requires both concentration and attention. Simply, I may have misdefined one of my views, and that attitude is based on at least a dozen amendments being read completely wrongly. So I'm not saying it's misread, I'm saying it's read. I'm just following up here with a colleague doing it and simply, maybe something that's reckless has come out on me. Once again, I apologize if anyone has found himself offended. It wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5883	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? National MPs Sreto Peric, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment together. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Serbian radicals greatly appreciate our country's water potential, both by building a mini-power plant on our own words, and we are seriously treating inland water navigation, but here is the fundamental problem with the law that regulates that matter. So he was brought in in 2010. The current majority was not the majority then, but rather the early winter changes that followed in the law in 2012 created the current majority, and then early spring 2015 and late autumn also in 2015, brought some changes that did not solve the problem. Mr. Minister, you obviously have a problem with the Legislative Secretariat, on the one hand, and if someone made me take a shot at the Serbian Progressive Party, I would deploy Mr. Martinovic to the Legislative Secretariat and then surely the bill's proposals would be incomparably better than they are now. There's another problem, I think, in the Ministry itself, there aren't enough good experts to solve these legal proposals better. We intervened on Article 229a. by recommending that the amount of compensation for the use of the coast to be paid for the loading or landing of the liquefied oil gas, etc. pay the obligation, i.e. it can be released or reduced to 30%, and you have now said – only 30%. So here's the possibility for the agency to go from case to case, and never more than 30% reduce that fee, and now you've decided to be 30%. And there's also a way to equate such a proposal, but you said – the amount of tax for the use of the coast to be paid for loading or unloading products of steel...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5885	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5886	... and the ores needed for the production of steel, you say it's being released, or that it's charging those 50% as much as it's been so far. Well, we're talking about the development of the Ironworks. The Chinese are here. Something's started, you want to destroy it. The full proposal of this law is ridiculous. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5887	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5888	Thank you. As long as the colleagues of the SRS settle down, we'll continue. Mr. Sarovic, no throwing, if that's all right. The Democratic Party is proposing in Article 37 that the 2nd and 3rd and DS be deleted respects the efforts of Minister Knezevic that he is present in the hall today, but we also express dissatisfaction because Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic is not in the hall. This is her portfolio and her theme, so I don't know which time Mrs. Mihajlovic didn't come to defend or present to the MPs what her work is. We know that the government can empower any minister, so we are so dissatisfied that expert Vulin did not come today to explain this law to us, but to Mr. Knezevic. The promoter goes to the extreme and abolishs the possibility of reducing up to 50% the port tax on steel and ore products needed for their production. Well, the DS has reasonable doubts about that decision, whether such a decision is designed to create the monopoly position of Jelizara Smederevo in our country or whether it is excluded by special agreements. Please explain that to us. What's this decision going to say to European steel, are we going to get pucks again? Are we going to break international agreements again like we did in the previous period of time? We heard about the subject and the amendments earlier, so the observations made by the minister do not stand as far as DS, because both Mr Jesic and Mr Ciric and I have always talked about the amendments, but through the amendments, since we have no other options, we also had to respond to the fact that the MPs are jinx because they are currently in America, the US Government's cost, not the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they are following the elections and at Donald Trump's election headquarters and at the Hilary Clinton election headquarters. And DS is not, nor can it interfere with the elections of any sovereign state, and so is the state of America. And who's the jinx, as we heard earlier, so we can see who gave the lecture at the Hillary Clinton Foundation and see who's the biggest jinx, how we just heard you accused the DS MPs. Here, you can have a nice look. If you can't see, I'll get close to you. I'm asking the cameras to record this. As for Hetherland Castle, who mentioned the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5889	My fellow Milojich, I beg you now...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5890	Everyone was talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5891	They were replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5892	It wasn't replicas, it was amendments, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5893	And the amendment? Yes, I remember correctly, colleague Martinovic asked why the contract was not published.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5894	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5895	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5896	As far as the authorities in New Vienna are concerned, the committees you're accusing are in power with the SNS. If you mind something about Castle Heterland, and we're standing on the legal side today and on the moral side that everything in that castle and with these works is clean, then why did you take the DS committees that were selected from the DS list to make up most of the SNS? And these councilmen are, of course, because of the inability of the DS coalitions with you today wearing a sock on your foot, and at night with that same sock on your head, you're tearing down objects about the Savala... We've shut those committees down from the DS, so I'm asking you to have the same archaics, so you don't have to be contradictory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5897	I ask you fellow Milojičić to have the same criteria for those who entered this building and burned it down... (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: shame on them. Shame on them. ... And they're still looking for pieces of art that went missing from this building. Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5898	Mr. Milojic was 15 at the time, and he's acting like he's got the same thing today, so I don't think he's made much progress. I'd advise him to take that sock off his head, maybe he'll be a little smarter in the discussion. As far as children distracted by development are concerned, I did not invent this syntagma of children distracted by development. The Syntagma is in a contract signed between the Capital Investment Fund AP Vojvodina and the municipality of Novi Becej. Don't just tell me that the contract on behalf of the municipality of Novi Vienna and the Capital Investment Fund of Vojvodina has been concluded by some DS committees elected in the 2016 elections. The contract is closed if I'm not mistaken in 2010. There's one more thing to let you know. Mr. Pajtic, your former president, has sued me for slander because I have brought out all the facts in public that I have managed to come to, without your internet and without your publication of the contract on the Internet, and related among other things to the malfeasance of the so-called. reconstructions of Castle Hetherland in the settlement of Bočar in the municipality of Novi Becej. So the trial is under way, but there's one thing. I showed up at the hearing, alone. Mr. Pitiæ sent his lawyer. He's been talking for days about how he's gonna sue me, how he's gonna file one, the other, the fifth suit, etc., how he's gonna look me in the eyes of the court, etc. He sent a lawyer. I showed up alone. After that, he didn't even show up for his lawyer. So the trial is under way. What is more important, I hope that the competent state authorities will bring justice to those who spent two million euros allegedly for helping children distracted by development, and that money ended up in private pockets, among other things, by buying an apartment to the former director of the Capital Investment Fund Momcilo Milovic, the latter consul of the Republic of Serbia in Trieste.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5899	Mr. Sarovic, you have no right to a replica. Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: How come I don't have one? He directly mentioned my name and name. I do find your behavior funny, colleague Sarovic. He told you not to throw it at him, and you threw it at him. Nemanja Sarovic, from the scene: he said I needed to be calm. That's not the basis for replication. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: I will contact the Rules of Procedure if I do not get the right to the replica. You can make a deal. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from town: Who can make a deal? You two. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: we will agree on this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5900	So Mr. Milojicic mentioned my name and name and said he should calm me down. I hope he calms me down. Mr. Milojicic, you know it's no good when you DS are trying to calm the radicals. That's what you tried in 2008 and you got SNS. Instead of saying now that you'll never stop the radicals again, you'd be back to calming us down. Mr. Milojic, you, on the other hand, are persuaded by the ruling majority who lost Hillary Clinton, whether it's Vukic or Balsa Bozovic. It's a dead race. I admit it, but that's not why she lost. She lost because Donald Trump won, won with the support of Vojislav Seselj. Every candidate we support wins, won by Mladen Grujic after who knows how many years, so we support the referendum in Serbian, so we succeed, and we support Donald Trump, and you all laughed. Now that Donald Trump's won, you're racing who'll be the first to congratulate. Those who licked up until yesterday, political Mrs. Clinton now ran to say that Trump has enormous energy and that this huge energy is needed, not only for the citizens of the United States, but also for the citizens of the whole world. In order for someone to lead the people, they must have a political vision. You've shown that you don't have that political vision. You, Mr. Milojic, have chosen losers, and have become a loser yourself, and this is just another indication to the citizens of Serbia for whom they should vote in the upcoming elections. Unlike all of you, we don't have a problem, we have a great candidate, there's no fight, let's go to victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5901	The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5902	I'm not going to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I was looking for a replica before anyone else. It's an insult to every man who keeps to himself when he's even mentioned by the so-called. Mr. District Destroying Expert, Money Laundering through an institution called football clubs and an unfathoming captain of Heinken United. So it would have been really much better if they had kept quiet, but I thanked you for finding out something I didn't know, which Donald Trump financed to emulate Hillary Clinton at his headquarters, since I didn't mention it. And at that discovery and just identifying someone here, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5903	The word has the People's MP Radoslav Milojic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the right to two replicas, since I was directly mentioned by Mr Martinovic and Mr Nemanja Sarovic. I know they're brothers on their grandmother's lines, as Radashin says. I resent only Mr. Sarovic for not cutting up Mr. Martinovic a little bit when he sent him to the SNS. Right, the only mistake DS admits, but none of the current DS leadership took part in it, is that it was made by the Frankenstein SNS that destroyed everything it touched, which reduced wages, which reduced pensions to Serbian citizens, which reduced subsidies in agriculture from 14,000 dinars to 4,000 dinars, which raised the price of electricity by 28%. As for Mr. Pajtic, Mr. Martinovic, yes, he is the former president of the DS. If you are not referred, since I see that you are very ill-advised and never tell the truth, the current DS President is Mr Dragan Sutanovac, but what Dr Bojan Pajtic and his team have done with his team in Vojvodina you will not be able to paint in that same Vojvodina. As far as crime and corruption are concerned, for five years the SNS has been headed by Aleksandra Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic and Dragic Nikolic and his mother-in-law and other son Tom Nikolic in power. Why don't you arrest all the people who broke the law? Why don't you arrest all the thieves? Don't wave an empty gun in here and wave empty papers. Citizens are interested in what their condition is in the fridge, what their condition is in their wallet and what their situation is like in the tank, and in the last five years, their condition is disastrous because of your poor policy and your arrogant treatment of the opposition, because you do not want to accept any amendment just because it is an amendment of DS or any other party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5905	Just slow down, I need some time to call myself after a speech like this, but I don't know, it's the citizens who judge us, so I don't know how she didn't win the DS. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5906	When a couple of minutes of untrueness, insult, fictional statistics come to you, it's very hard to give you some excess answer. Serbia's citizens live better than when the DS ruled. That is what citizens themselves are talking about in the elections that have shown confidence in Alexander Vukic and the SNS. Do not ask us whether or not we will vote for your amendments, ask your colleagues. So, if your amendments are so good and so great, I'm surprised that you're talking to yourself and persuading yourself. So, you should gather your colleagues first and before you ask where Minister Zorana Mihajlovic is and where is he or this minister in the Serbian government, so your president of the parliamentary group won't listen to you. Your MPs won't listen to you. And I ask all SNS MPs not to waste any more time on the replicas of a man who represents himself. Mr. Goran Knezevic travels tomorrow along with Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic to Romania. On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, there are people in Kazakhstan. In large steps, Serbia grabs ahead. We establish good relations with both the West and the East, and we don't have time for empty stories, especially for debates with those who have eaten us for 12 years, in Vojvodina for 16 years. I wish you, Mr. Knezevic, a happy trip to Romania, as I wish you a happy trip to Kazakhstan, to return from Romania and Kazakhstan with many good contracts for the economy and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5907	Just take it easy, we're just having a real breach of the Rules of Procedure, so let me figure out what this is all about, because it's not about the amendment for sure. (Radoslav Milojičić, from place: Replica. ) You are not here, Sreto Perić, Stankovic, Đuričić, Zoran Krasic... (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: I explained the amendment. It is in Hetherland. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Yes, ask Arsic. Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5908	Thank you, President. I call on Article 106 in relation to Article 27, and I point to the already obviously excessive degree of tolerance, not from you, but from Mr Arsic to everything that has happened, tolerances to the application of the Rules of Procedure and the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because the most severe aspect of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure is, if the Rules of Procedure is used for the purpose of replicating or developing a marketing approach at today's session, and this has been too much today. In order not to be us, all the other hostages here, one such approach, especially when it comes to the opposition, then I think it's high time that we stop using the Rules of Procedure and get back on the agenda. I ask you to be above all because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are surely experiencing in one special way everything that is going on here, that it is high time to take the debate seriously and devote ourselves to what we are here for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5909	I absolutely agree with you, and now I'm going to be rigorous. I'm taking up all the parliamentary groups of time and that's how we're gonna end up. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Can I have a word? He can't. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: Subtract from the group. No, no, no, and you've expressed your intention in advance. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: By amendment, subtract from the group. I don't want to talk about the amendment anymore, you said I didn't want to talk about the amendment, I want a replica. Your intention is very clear. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: By amendment. There are other MPs, you're not the only one in the O.R. at all. I absolutely agree with Ambassador Nedjo Jovanovic. The Rules of Procedure must be used, the penalties to be imposed, and that's the only way we have a session at all. I'll give it when the other MPs say their amendments. Who is Ivan Manojlović? Ivan Manojlović. Here you go. By amendment, I usually interrupt immediately, really, no matter what parliamentary group they were from. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5910	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are absolutely opposed to accepting this amendment and exactly what is characteristic and common, which has already been said a lot, and those who have just submitted this amendment have taken advantage of the opportunity to delete under one brief sentence, get the opportunity to talk about some other things not related to this Law on Navigation. In doing so, I just wanted to point out one fact, if it is unclear why we are, among other things, against accepting this amendment, that is at least because those who are not present in this amendment are not present in the hall either. How they think they convince others when most of them aren't there. I would just like to read, Members Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Comić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 38th amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5911	We're on Article 37 now. (Radoslav Milojičić, from town: To Article 37.) Don't throw it away. You've absolutely made a general confusion. I'm on the side of the MPs because those who want to follow the debate can't do that. I'll give you my word when he's a member of the 38th, please hold. (Ivan Manojlović, from the place: Pardon, to Article 37) Yeah, but it's 38th because you're reading other promoters. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: Can I do the amendment? I won't give you the word absolutely, since you're having endless fun at the session today, throwing away, misusing the Rules of Procedure, making a mess. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the place: I did not come to your house for a visit, so that you would give me your word. I thank you very much for these respectful words you have spoken. You won't piss me off at all, because it's important who offends you. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: What have I offended you with? Therefore, MP, take it easy. It's all right. I won't answer you, I'll hold on. Still, that trait of mine says a lot. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? Here you go. (Zoran Krasic, from the post: Which member? ) The amendment that was discussed from this morning, starting from the victory of Trump to my entry into the O.R. Article 37 The draft law is deleted, the text of the bill reads as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5912	Dear President, this member of the proposal... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Which one? I'm asking the Honorable President to give me peace here. Apparently, some people have a problem with themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5913	Please, let me run the session, you just about your intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5914	This amendment is deleted and I believe that it should be rejected for the reason that all these amendments are deleted, in some way trying to erase the meaning of the law or the purpose of the law, so to speak, in general. I think the government did the right thing. Finally, something of an expert president. I was asked by the children's educators because an unprofessional sentence was used here for a particular group of small children. A certain MP said, I don't know if you've been here, Mr. Professor. Martinovic is ashamed of using the word children distracted by development. As a man of the profession, I warn the person concerned who said he was ashamed to apologize to Mr. Martinovic for using the right word. There are more expressions with special needs, special needs, etc. We who are pedagogical professions know it very well and this is kind of an insult. I really ask the MP to apologize to Mr. Martinovic on behalf of the children. I'm making him a proposal to look at the encyclopaedic dictionary of pedagogy and the pedagogical encyclopedia, and he'll see very well that he was okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5915	Thank you. I need to look at the stenogram to see what happened. Zoran Krasic throws. No, there isn't. - It's a lovely Michael's throw. Don't yell. If someone insulted the children with special needs, I'll let everyone talk about it. Does anyone want to talk about Article 37, the amendment to Article 37? No, I don't. ) Representatives Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 37th amendment. Do any of the promoters want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic. (Radoslav Milojičić, from the post: I responded by amendment. You haven't answered. I looked at you. Don't interrupt the session. (Radoslav Milojic, from the place: You can't not give me the word.) ) The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5916	Can I or can't I?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5917	I apologize to Ambassador Krasic. I have a little problem. I looked in your direction, and you two shook your heads like this, and I kept running the session. I won't ask anyone to answer. Either you follow or you don't follow the session. Here you go, Ambassador Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5918	Let me get this straight. The proposaler's representative just said something about article 36. We didn't submit an amendment to Article 36, so you know. As for the amendment to Article 37, let's just focus on the cost of using the coast. Article 38. The draft law, which is Article 229b of the basic text, refers to the fee for consent. So, just to branch out. You are making an appropriate change in Article 229b, but you forget the last position in that original text of Article 229b, which is to pay for the use of the coast, and it is not to agree. How could you not make it right? That's the first thing. The other thing is, I have to draw attention to the agency's charge, and the fee is public income, but that fee would have to be arranged somehow, and that's why a new law is needed. What's this fee that's being charged by invoices? There's something good you've done with the changes in the previous members where the fee no longer needs to be prescribed, neither I nor, etc., but you've left it to the Republic Administrative Tax Act for one other part. That's good. I just can't figure this out here. Next, you threw out this reduction. You see, you didn't see the last attitude in the original text. It's a landing fee, and it's a coast tax. Why didn't you even make it right? You're counting on an alternative to convert it into mandatory, down by 30. No, leave it to the Agency, leave it to that decision to regulate that fee. Don't do it like this. It's no good for automation to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5919	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by Bozidar Delic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5920	Just a minute. This is Article 229g. We are asking for amendment to delete Article 39. It's a bill of law. With this article you are changing the appropriate attitudes in that Article 229g, but I draw attention to you, you have already done this in 2015 in February of the month. Now you're moving on. The same applies to a reduction of up to 30% that is recognised. You don't need to, I won't explain it specifically, to convince this since the last three, four members have their own logic, have some unity. The reduction is prescribed keep it exactly as prescribed in 2015. You're putting in some other criteria here now that we're also asking them to delete. To reduce the amount of fees for the operational use of the port, or ports as good in the general application laid down in Article 6, provisions establishing the state aid of small value shall apply. There's no need to bring it in. Why? The law is applied and applied, on state aid control. You're opening a logical problem. What happened until you suggested this change? So the State Aid Control Act. Why are you doing this? This law must be processed urgently because it is contradictory in many provisions and comes out of the basic content of the law, which is sailing, navigation safety, and elsewhere there are ports and all that is with ports. When you talk about ports, talk about port operations, don't question property. Those other regulations should be regulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5921	Time. You only have two minutes per amendment. You spent the rest. Members of the 40th Amendment were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5922	Just a little bit to get by on these papers, 'cause I've got a lot of these papers. It is a member who was changed in 2012 and 2015, so you are changing it in 2016. You change the same member three times. When three times one member of the same law changes, it means something's wrong, it means there's no concept. You don't have a system. Has there been a change of policy? There's been no policy change. Have there been any changes in any other regulations? There has been no change in some other regulations. Then why are you changing? It's probably forming some other political will. What will? I don't know. You should know better than anyone. What's changing here? Is there a story going back on when the privatisation process started? If the privatisation process is initiated after 4 June 2003, something which is an exception and which is acquired is not recognised, and if the procedure is initiated before then it is recognised and received treatment as if the privatisation contract had been concluded before that date, and you said that the date is a concession waterworks. Totally unnecessary. Why in one regulation that regulates the safety of navigation, waterways, control, guarantee of quality traffic security, the port's activity primarily defines what the dock is, what is done in the dock, why are you putting in such a regulation property regulations that you change the essence of the other regulations that regulate that area? When you do it this way, not specifically you, I don't mean you by your name or your last name, no one I don't think you're chasing your finger in the eye. You say -- here, look over there.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5923	Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Bozidar Delic, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 42nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5924	It's a similar story. It is a port for my own needs - to read that, yet someone understands what I'm saying, this seems complicated - a port for its own needs is a port intended for the operator's own needs in the context of the performance of its activity and can only be established to overload the goods needed to carry out its basic activity, which cannot be provided with a service of overload at the nearest port and which meets other conditions in accordance with the regulation laid down in Article 210(2) of this Act. Believe me, I don't even know what you're trying to say or why you put this in. Why did you install this? What did the writer mean? The dock for my own needs, I need to draw attention to you that there are negative experiences with such variants of the dock, when she was working that port captainate a few years ago, when the railroad was killed because she had to make access to some gas tanks for some people. Why are you getting into that story? That story also gave rise to the arms of the Railways and the Port Captain and killed those who approved it. You're legalizing something now. Don't do that. Besides, that man sold those two ships a long time ago, you were confiscated from those ships he bought in Ukraine. But they'll always answer that. You don't need it, don't make a law according to the needs of some people, when you know their interests are extremely problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5925	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5926	I thank the chairman. Although I am somewhere in one piece, perhaps even in agreement with the previous speaker, I must point out that we cannot accept an amendment predicting the erasure of this article. I'd just like to clarify one vagueness. Yes, this concept was introduced primarily because of "Smederevo Ironworks", therefore, because of our Chinese partners, because of a situation that was very difficult in the company. What is certain is that if this is a kind of concession, the concession has been introduced in every sense in this bill of best intention, to meet the Chinese partner because of 5,000 employees in "The Irons". So I think that's good, I think it's something that's good for Serbia and certainly for that reason it should remain the subject of this law, that is, not to accept an amendment that deletes a certain member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5927	Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by the MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and together by the MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5928	This amendment refers to, as you said, that member, but it's the same amendment we talked about maybe two hours ago. It's about the ability to run a administrative dispute, so I don't want to repeat it. I need to draw attention to that previous amendment. You know, I fully agree that it is necessary to help whoever bought "The Iron" to have lower instructions for its future production, etc., but how to have lower instructions if it is not granted the discount that has to use the 50% coast, which you have installed in one of the previous members. You don't recognize that 50% discount anymore, because you're erasing that attitude from that article. Now we hear that own ports are needed for their own needs because of the Ironworks. It doesn't make sense. A member where you give them 50% discount, and here you say - we'll let you build your own dock, etc. It's like it's all free of any tax, let's say for air. It doesn't make sense. As for this particular member, you should have taken one standard formulation, that an administrative act against which an appeal is not allowed is treated by a final administrative act against which administrative dispute can be conducted. Now, this formulation, which is quite unfortunate, can create confusion and do not have to create confusion, but desecrate the text, because you could have done the same thing before, all without this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5929	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5930	Let me explain this, if I understand, if we're talking about the same thing. You're talking about reducing 50% steel and iron ore charges, right? It was abolished after consulting the Ministry of Finance, because it was a direct state aid and it, as you know, was banned by the SAA and it had practically had to be out of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5931	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5932	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Since you took away our word about the last amendment, when we applied, you said that we wanted to make some impressions, etc., here, we don't want to talk about the amendment, so we can clear that up. There's been a misunderstanding, and we don't want to be in that part at all incorrect, so we're not going to talk about this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5933	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5934	Thank you. Dear President, Your Honor, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the People, I am reporting on the amendment submitted to Article 43. A bill, submitted by a group of MPs. Namely, this article 43. The draft law is complemented by Article 240 of the applicable law in the sense of regulation that the solution granting authorisation for the temporary loading place is finally in the administrative procedure and that an administrative dispute may be brought against it by the administrative court within 30 days of the date of receipt of the decision. In fact, this amended law fills the legal gap in the existing law, which provides adequate legal protection for participants in the procedure for issuing and withdrawing authorisation, for the performance of port operations within a temporary pre-loading place, i.e. this amendment to the provisions of Article 240 of the applicable law is brought into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act when it comes to the finality of the settlement and the time limit for the initiation of the dispute before the administrative court. I believe that the reason for eradicating this member who proposes colleagues is not justified, because it is contrary to the constitutional law of every citizen on legal security and legal protection. For this reason, we are of the opinion that this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5935	Thank you. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 44th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5936	I would only use one sentence for what Mr. Knezevic said. I know that, Mr. Prince, that because of the SAA, you had to do something like that when it comes to the reduction. However, formal-legal and material-legislative conditions have not been met. Now I'm going to tell you, the definition of state aid implies that state aid is any matter or potential public expenditure or a reduction of public revenue that the beneficiary of State aid achieves a more favourable position on the market. What more favourable position can be acquired by "Smederevo Iron", when the absolute monopolies, the only one, is no one else? Whoever comes there to Smederevo and unloads that ore will have the same right to the same discount. After all, why did you invite this man from China to invest here, I guess business is developing?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5937	To Article 44.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5938	The minister was just talking about an amendment that wasn't on board, so he brought it up. What's the point of this amendment? The point of this amendment is to follow the previous amendments we asked for certain things to be settled. This applies first of all to Article 25. It's a bill of law. This amendment has only been submitted for legal and editorial reasons, as it follows some earlier amendments, and in this article of the law, violations are prescribed, and we think we should be consistent. If we have been consistent in Article 45, we should also show this consistency in Article 44.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5939	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 44, was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5940	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5941	Thank you. The amendment is accepted. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 44th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5942	Well, the failure was one word omitted from this amendment so that the amendment of your colleague, mentioned by Rakic, put it in place, and then practically my amendment put it as its solution, I accept it as a technical correction and I give up this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5943	Thank you. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5944	Thank you very much. I have submitted six amendments, five are concerned with tightening the criminal policy that is related to this law, and one has its own lexical meaning. One has been accepted practically by this change through the board, and three has been accepted in the original text, and that is easily well. Minimum penalties have been increased for all infringements mentioned, but unfortunately it is not able to correct this law. We've had a debate for a very long, very unusual time with everything and everything, but what we've clearly seen is that this is a law that changes the law that's been passed under two years. And this text of the law should be fully applied, if I remember correctly by the end of 2018. So it wasn't any big press or crowd to do it so fast. The changes that have been made obviously have many shortcomings, not only from my amendments, but from the amendments that many colleagues have made. And that tells us that the law was practically passed here, a new bill on amending the law just to do something about it. I don't see that we in the procedure have some laws waiting for us, and the historical truth is that since March of the month this year when the last session last called out to this day, only a few laws have been passed. So it's been...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5945	By amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5946	About the amendment, of course it's one of...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5947	It's about criminal policy. I hope that better bill proposals that will not require such amendments as the amendment to Article 45 means that I am talking about the amendment will soon be in the process of wanting to start dealing with serious matters again or once again in the Assembly, not that our discussions are as they are today, where the majority of violence towards the minority in parliament is clearly the same. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5949	And this, so that amendment increases the minimum penalties for a violation defined through Article 46, and that's good, I'm staying with what I said earlier that it failed to fix the whole law, so I'm going to vote against the law with respect to what the amendments have been adopted. We have one unusual thing, otherwise in our work, and this has been seen today that the bill proposed by the Serbian government is not defended by ministers, nor by the absent minister who was there yesterday, nor by the present minister, but by the MPs of the majority, which is very unusual. Because it's not a proposal from the SNS parliamentary group, or I don't know who, but it's the government's proposal. I think it's really good for Parliament and methodological discussion to be done properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5950	Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. You want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5951	You didn't say he was accepted..
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5952	I read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5953	That he became an integral part, so I have nothing to add to what I said before.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5954	Thank you. They didn't write me here in a reminder. They just wrote received a report from the Committee. Okay. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is that okay? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5955	My mistake, the previous one wasn't accepted, and the one you just said was accepted. He was rejected for a demagogue reason that because of the small salaries of people working in shipping it is not good for them to be punished it is a matter of a very unusual explanation. It means that people who don't have income shouldn't be punished for anything. And those who have large incomes or who are rich should pay enormous fines for wrong parking and for all living. So here again, the methodology is completely irrelevant. Since small wages are in shipping and in all those services that go around, what does that have to do with me committing some kind of violation that I should be properly, proportionately punished for it? That's why Minister, here's a chance to get involved, because I think that this demagogue reason for refusing should not survive and I think that the government that otherwise advocates at least in words for the market economy and respect for the rights of the word alone should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5956	No, no, this amendment has been accepted for 48. And that's been discussed, we're not going back to that. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of Amendments were submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 49. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister if he accepts this amendment from the Committee?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5957	Sustained.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5958	Thank you. Parliamentarians Natasa Jovanovic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted the 50th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5959	Article 50. The draft law is prescribed, the provisions of Article 9 of this Act will apply from 1 December 2018. And Article 9. The bill says – The Port Captain approves the landing of the ship in international traffic outside a certain border crossing for water traffic in the event of the ship being boarded to perform repairs on board or to take over another ship built in the shipyard and on which repairs are carried out as well as in other similar situations. Article 2 – The port captain does not approve of the landing of the ship under Article 1 in order to board and unload goods or passengers and to continue with what is stated in Article 50. – until the entry into force of Article 9, that is, on 1 December 2018, the port captainate will, in accordance with the provisions of this law governing the protection of the state border except in the cases prescribed in Article 9, it is there, repairing the ship, authorise the landing of off-border vessels in international traffic and in cases for the purpose of carrying out cargo of goods, and it has been prohibited there, under two to carry out oil or oil cargo, i.e. coal for the purposes of refineries and energy facilities where necessary for the purpose of preserving the activity of those facilities. Has anyone figured out what they wrote? What is due to enter on 1 December 2018 under Article 50 is not valid, it will immediately step forward and spread to oil and oil derivatives and to coal and to all. I don't know, this is the first time I've seen a relationship between two members, and they should both be some exception. I don't know who can raise his hand and vote for the 50th bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5960	Thank you. MPs Sreto Peric and Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 51st amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5961	Article 51. The bill of law, I think it's a good thing there's a minister of business to hear what his colleagues from the Department of Traffic are doing to him. It says so – Companies that have acquired the property of a privatisation entity in accordance with the Privatisation Act are obliged to obtain a new authorisation to carry out port operations in accordance with the provisions of this Act within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. Well, we killed ourselves just before those members were asked to. Article 2 – Commercial companies which carry out port operations on the day of entry into force of this law and which operate with majority government capital and which are registered as holders of the right to use on unbuilt and built land, state property in a public book, immovable property records and so on. Well, why do you want to have other laws that regulate and property issues over the land and the character of that land, built, not built, built and so on? Why are you getting into this, especially why are you from the Department of Traffic, who also owns construction in your vault? The property issue on building land or the use of construction land is regulated by a law that should regulate the safety of navigation. Well, you have your laws to regulate it. Now, that's the problem, which in one ministry where three, four resors are concentrated, no resor talks to any one, one resor takes some jurisdiction, and all in principle, exceptions, and when an exception occurs, there's always something else that follows the exceptions. Take care when you raise your hand for this bill. I suggest you bring in an emergency, file a new bill that needs to regulate the safety of navigation and ports.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5962	Thank you. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5963	Thank you very much. Here's a chance for the present minister to accept the amendment and thus admit the mistake, to say the better slip made by the government, obviously not reading his bill well, Mr. Minister. It reads here in my amendment – "Employment companies which in the privatisation process acquired the property of a privatization entity in accordance with the Privatisation Act, (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No.38/14’), etc. The amendment was rejected, he says - it is not accepted for the reason that the member and that position was proposed in this amendment in the same text as the draft law. However, the draft law states: "A company which is in the privatisation process of the property, etc. (the official loud one) writes, not a messenger, does not exist in an official voice, and it is important to know which act is called for in Article 51. So, what's the deal? It's a one-letter thing, but it's a letter of course that can change the formal part of this law significantly. Therefore, no one will fall from their heads if this amendment is accepted, and he will, through the introduction of the right letter to the right place, give formal clear meaning to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5964	Minister Knezevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5965	We can accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-11-09-0.u5966	Thank you. The amendment has been accepted. Thank you. Member of the 54th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Katarina Rakic is not here. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 10th November 2016 starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. (Zoran Zivkovic, now: Why at 10.00 hours? ) Because tomorrow is a working day, and now there will be a celebration of Fascism Day in the country, so many MPs are busy, and I hope you are too. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) There are no Rules of Procedures at the vote. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Then anyone would be obstructing the vote. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I thought it was made up. It's not. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Now according to the Rules of Procedure. No, he can't. Nothing happened at the session. (Bosko Obradovic, from the post: MP questions. I'll share all the warnings, but there will be votes. It won't happen again here what you were doing on the board. I guarantee you. If necessary, I will lead every committee, but Parliament will work. I guarantee you that. We continue our work and move on to a decision on the agenda points of the third session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in principle. Stop the vote while we make order in the O.R. and we can join the vote. Please stop the vote. Since I have not been able to carry out the right way of voting on the first item of the agenda, please listen carefully to me, I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – two abstentions – there is no, not one MP voted. I find that the Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Ivan Kostic and Marija Janjušević and joint MPs Goran Ješić, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted with 132 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, has ever voted. 133 Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic and joint MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been voted by 134 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted 134 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 7th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, who has no one to vote. 137 of the Messengers of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 138 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 133 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Sreto Peric, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 136 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Jesic, Goran Ćirić, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted for 136 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 138 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 137 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milorad Mirčić, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic together with the MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 134 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – four, against – no one who is abstention – 133 MPs voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 134 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – four, against – no one who is abstention – 133 MPs voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Sreto Peric, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 136 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 43rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs of the DS group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Bozidar Delic, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miroslava Stankovic-Đuričić and Zoran Krasic submitted the 50th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – five abstentions – there is no, no vote – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Korea, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 135, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted most of the votes of all the MPs, the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development Abu Dhabi for Budgetary Support, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – five abstentions – none, none that did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 137 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for Development Abu Dhabi for Budgetary Support, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – four abstentions – no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 1830 (2014) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 135, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty "Apex Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises and Other Priorities III/B" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 136 against. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Modification and Optimisation of Public Administration) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 134, no two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 1768 (2012) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 135. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing the Western Balkans Fund with the Statute of the Western Balkans, in principle I am concluding the vote and saying: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, has voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The proposing representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement establishing the Fund for the Western Balkans, with the Statute of the Western Balkans Fund, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 133, against – there is no one who has three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am voting on a motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2016, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2016, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 131. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia Group in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 133, against – there is no one who has three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist League Group of the Social Democrats Vojvodina - the Green Party, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 129, no seven Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group Enough, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, no vote by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. Vote in principle. It's strange that the motionary doesn't come to vote for his changes, of course. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 132, no four MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 25 October 2016, at 14 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 103 and 92 of Section 6. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote, and I declare that for - three, against - one, abstentions - there is no vote, there is no vote by 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 25 October 2016, at 14 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 157(2) and Article 103(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no, they did not vote 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 25 October 2016, at 15 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 25 October 2016, at 21 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 26 October 2016, at 12 hours and 3 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(2) and Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, there is no vote of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 26 October 2016, at 12 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 26 October 2016, at 18 hours and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, there is no vote of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 1 November 2016, at 15 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 1 November 2016, at 16 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has ever voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 2 November 2016, at 12 hours and 6 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, has ever voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 2 November 2016, at 13 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 8 November 2016, at 11 o'clock and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, with abstentions, 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 8 November 2016, at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, the abstentioned -- there is no vote, there is no vote of 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 8 November 2016, at 16 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against - one, the abstentioned - there was no vote of 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 9 November 2016, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against three, with abstentions, 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 9 November 2016, at 13 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against - three, abstentions - no, 134 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 9 November 2016, at 15 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against two, with abstentions, there is no vote of 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 9 November 2016, at 15 hours and 46 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 107 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against - one, the abstentioned - there was no vote of 136 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP LJupka Mihajlovska, at a session on 9 November 2016, at 15 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 116 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, not 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you.
