ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of persons present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the Members' E-systems. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 194 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that today he was prevented from attending the session of MP Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have also been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in this year, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. A motion to dismiss the Secretary of Defense. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Vujovic, Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, Dr Nenad Miloradovic, acting as defence minister, General Major General Bojan Zrnic, Head of Defence Administration and Colonel Vladimir Marinkovic of the Ministry of Defence. You have received a motion to dismiss Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, who was submitted by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I'm opening a search. Does Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic want to explain the motion to dismiss the defence minister? Here you go. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48747	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 133 of Rule 3. Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 22(2). The Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I proposed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48748	We haven't regulated the phone ring question yet during the session. Would you be so kind as to turn the sound down?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48749	So, on the basis of the Constitution and the law, I have sent a proposal to you, honourable MPs, for the resolution of Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic. It is, in all likelihood, a rare, almost unusual request from any Prime Minister, especially because that request is addressed, you will see from the reasons I will give, because of one statement, and I will not say "only one statement", because it is much more than "only", it is much more than that one statement and much more than that one insult. I will not justify myself to anyone, nor to myself, nor to Bratislav Gasic, nor to any of you, for the request I have made. Also, I will talk today about the results that Bratislava Gasic, as defence minister, has achieved. I think your results are very good. I think he's done a lot for both the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia and our dedicated industry. By one definition, decency is polite, moral, and honest conduct, and the same attitudes that show respect for other people. The decency is, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, something we all want in this country. I'm counting on it, starting from itself, to all of us in this room, to every other space where we're staying and where we communicate with each other. It's politeness, therefore, and our obligation, at least so much if we want to live in a country where not only will we respect all others, but in a country where everyone else will respect us. The decency, in the end, is a model that we must provide to Serbia and its citizens. The policy of decency and political decency, except that, according to Theodore Roosevelt, the most practical way to conduct politics is to give both a framework, tone and rhythm to society as a whole. It will always be just as polite as we are competent to decide on behalf of this society. That's why our decisions have to be decent. That is why I signed a few days ago, and just over a month ago I made a decision on the resolution of Bratislav Gasic from the post of defence minister that is before you today. That's why I'm asking you today, and I'm counting on you to understand the reasons for confirming that decision. It's because of the courtesy, morality, honesty and respect we have to show to all other people. Don't, please, forget that we live in a country where mere decency, in its full definition, can help us to be a public discourse, even at our highest level, no longer like a reality show, in the legal sense of that word, and to stop being a dark Balkan pub where people are enemies to each other and in which we measure and break each other's heads because of the wrong words and the wrong look, even the wrong thoughts. Serbia certainly does not need that kind of rude division. And more than that, Serbia cannot endure such a division, as it cannot endure the increase of violence against women or children, which it once again has its roots in elementary rudeness. Anyone who tells a woman to kneel is forced to go to a safe house, even if he did not have any similar intentions, and I know that Bratislav Gasic did not just have any similar intentions, but that was not the end of his mind. Regardless, Bratislav Gasic, in my opinion, did just that. The fact that one of my best associates, a friend, a man I trust, has made me not only think about my own responsibility, which would not exist if I hadn't asked for his solution, but also seriously wonder where we are as a society, how we treat each other, how much we respect each other, and especially how much we respect those who are the source of each of our individual lives - women. That is why I am one of the participants, of the people who have launched a broad action to help women who are victims of violence, which is why I ask that the criminal provisions dealing with domestic violence be tightened and that is why I am asking you today and I will ask that you not only be representatives of people and parties, but also to set an example for society as a whole. I ask to repeat politely, morally, honest behavior and show respect for others. If that's what we're asking someone to do, it's understood that you have a lot more right to ask us to do it. Because it has to be Serbia and because it's precisely the values that are still missing from our system, values that will show everyone that dialogue is decent, that work is decent, that learning is decent, that advancement is decent and that it's polite to nobody to wish for anything you don't want to yourself. Bratislav Gasic would certainly never wish himself to kneel. I know he didn't wish for the girl or the woman he said it to. That is what he said, and he must bear responsibility for it, and he must bear political consequences for it. I know that Gasic also knows that it is not polite because it is not polite to kneel or tell anyone else to kneel. It is proper to be upright, and it is polite to help others to be upright. Finally, from Bratislava Gasic, my friend, I expect him to show by his actions what he learned from all this in the future. From you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to say the shortest explanation so far in front of the National Assembly, I expect you to vote on this law of mine, to make it clear whether you think and want it to look decent, normal and modern Serbia. On the results of Bratislava Gasic at the ministry, I have only words of praise. These results are better than his predecessors in the area of the dedicated industry, therefore, the defence industry of Serbia, and in the area of the defence ministry itself. But on this day we try, when we talk about changes that many people like to talk about in Serbia, but when they talk about them, they always talk about it, and counting on everyone else to change just so they don't change, counting on something from the sky to fall, so if it doesn't fall, we're going to do the same again. Counting that they have already forgiven themselves for what others have not or will never forgive others for what they have long ago been. This is an attempt to show that we've learned and that we can change ourselves. This is the attempt and presence of Bratislava Gasic here, to show that he is able and that he is able to suffer human and political criticism both he and I and the entire government. And, let's not run away from the appointment of sessions and each other and all day's debates, because in the end, whoever repents and what he is ashamed of, will be able to change once to behave differently, and those who do not repent of what they have done and who are not sorry, they will always stay in their mud and never, never, not a bit different, not a bit better, will be. Once again, thank you for your attention and I ask you to accept this request, with all due respect for the very serious work and good work provided by Bratislav Gasic in the Ministry of Defence, as minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48750	I thank the Prime Minister. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word and in what order? First, Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48751	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Prime Minister, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this session today is an example of calling for public responsibilities, for which there was no example in practice in this form. All representatives of the government in the Republic of Serbia, as public officials, have an additional obligation to fight birth stereotypes and treat women with respect, evenly and without discriminatory views. It's a good thing Mr. Minister apologized very quickly, and the whole case should actually be a reminder for all public authorities to behave in speech and communication with full respect for the conversators. You, Mr. Prime Minister, made a promise immediately after an unsavourable event to question your responsibilities and promised the minister's shift. Accordingly, you made a decision on how and how to do it. You have fulfilled your promise, and you have done so within the time limit that we of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians certainly appreciate and support. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Serbia there are still certain groups of people who are largely vulnerable. One of the personal properties, based on which discrimination can occur, is gender or gender. It is widely known that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prohibits discrimination based on gender and in accordance with this, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was adopted in 2009, as well as the Law on Gender Equality. Soon we will bring a new home in this respected home. We believe that, in addition to ensuring the early and effective implementation of these mentioned anti-discrimination laws, it is necessary to take appropriate appropriate measures to raise awareness and the general public on these laws and specifically these issues. On the other hand, it is understandable that women are more oblivious than men, because women are far more exposed to attacks and socially vulnerable. In fact, the way women and men can disqualify are different. Women are much more frequent than men, unfortunately disqualified on their own birth basis and their disqualification can actually be more devastating by their social reputation. The current position of women is better and better than she was, but it's still far from ideal. We believe that the political, public engagement of women is already slightly changing the stereotype about them, but not enough. Therefore, in order to live in an equal, democratic and toleranceal society, stereotype and prejudice towards women who are often at the root of any discrimination must be thoroughly and consistently contained. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians believe that we must all fight together against all possible forms of discrimination in a society that exists and do everything possible to achieve full protection for all categories of society. Our primary goal, of course, is to build such a society in which all citizens will be equal, in which we will provide equal conditions for everything that is in line with the guidelines of the modern European society, which, I am sure, we are all behind. On the other hand, I would remind everyone that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians advocates Euro-Atlantic integration, and therefore, I would like to remind myself once again and to welcome the fact that the Republic of Serbia signed an individual partner action plan with NATO last March, or a shorter, more famous IPAR. The IPAR is actually the highest level of co-operation with a partner country that is not defined for NATO membership. Serbia is developing co-operation accordingly, otherwise developing co-operation with the Alliance within the Partnership for Peace and thus contributing to interoperability in the Serbian Army, building military capacities to contribute to international peace and stability. The fact is, on the other hand, that all the countries of the eastern bloc without exception joined NATO first and then the EU. It did not go, so far, at the hands of any post-communist state, to become a member of the EU until it joined NATO. NATO membership is actually a synonym for security and security, and security doesn't just have a military component. It is not difficult to prove that foreign investors invest much easier and earlier in a NATO member state. To sum up, Mr. Prime Minister, we will support the resolution of the defence minister in the next 15 days, and in accordance with the deadlines and regulations of the next 15 days, we are waiting for a new candidate, with common respect, respect and openness by the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians, you have a partner to work together towards the goals of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48752	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48753	Mr. President, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've known Bratislava Gasic for over twenty years, and I didn't know him as the man who said the sentence he sent to a journalist two and a half months ago. Of course, that is why Bratislava Gasic must have responsibility. But I also have to remind the public that Bratislava Gasic and the Serbian Army have been helping Serbian citizens every day for the last few years, especially when they were floods. There is no city in Serbia without Bratislav Gasic and the Serbian Army being the first on the ground. As a man who lives in Jagodina who was flooded a year and a half ago, if it hadn't been for the Serbian Army, it might have happened and there might have been an accident for a few people to get hurt, but the army, with lightning speed, evacuated citizens who were flooded and their houses. I can't help but say that the Serbian Army has never been more popular with world forces. Also, I can't help but say that the Serbian Army has never been more popular with world forces. As the Army of Serbia, we do not experience awe of these world powers, but we experience respect, a great respect for our army, which cannot be shown and shown in terms of tools, that we are a force because we have, I don't know, the most modern weaponry in Europe. Especially that military parade held in Serbia, the military has shown that with what it has done a good defile not only for Serbia, but for all those who are friends of Serbia in military terms. Bratislav Gasic is one of 18 ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, and I can tell you – it is an honor for you and for him to change one of the 18 ministers. There are 250 MPs in parliament. At least 50 MPs were scheduled to be replaced because of the terms they had said in recent years. And that Bratislava Gasic is an example of every MP who addresses another MP or a person who is not an MP, or a minister or a Prime Minister, does not use appropriate terms for the MP to have a certain responsibility. Why am I saying that? Because there have been many times in this House that such ugly terms have been spoken, that a number of MPs have been ashamed of being a MP in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Bratislav Gasic is a man who, with his biography, became a minister of defence, was an businessman and thanks to his being a businessman, was very helpful to all those factories produced by military weapons, of course the way you opened Mr. Prime Minister, we place those products that military factories our products, those countries that needed it. But also, I wish we as the Army of Serbia had military neutrality. We are from Unique Serbia, and we are committed to building a programme government and we have not been wrong and, of course, the last government that we have made with you, but also to become a member of the NATO Pact, I don't think it's time yet, our wounds haven't dried up yet, and we can't forget everything that certain countries have done to us back then. You're doing very well, and I can't blame you for international relations, and the topic is the Army of Serbia or the defense, what the military should be doing during a critical period of time. We in Unity Serbia may once have supported that Serbia must defend itself and if it is necessary to die for Serbia. We don't send that kind of message anymore. We in Unity Serbia want to live for Serbia, that young people live for Serbia, that we don't go to those countries where war facts are like someone who's going to attack some other challengers, but to be on a peace mission like we've been doing for years. The Serbian army didn't have any stains that we could blame them for except for that helicopter that happened, but also to tell you that anyone in the army must be prepared for the case that happened. We regret those who died, but also a large number of parties, Prime Minister and individual, abused, constantly criticized as if someone had purposely wanted to do so. Of course there was a higher power there, and I don't see an individual having any responsibility for what happened to the helicopter. Serbia's army has a very high reputation and has shown itself several times. It was once an honor to be a soldier and if you're a man to join the army, to serve the army. I was a guard in Tito's guard when not everyone could go to Tito's guard. So you had to be clean and great-grandfather to have a good biography and I know very well what an army is. We have both good generals and generals with experience. And that this experience our generals convey to some other countries that have had or have a similar problem as the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's army is very important for our success in international relations. I haven't heard from anyone in those international diplomatic relations and through the media, and based on the meetings I've had, that someone is criticizing our army or that our army has done something beyond the authority of what its authority is. We can thank her that our borders are also very safe, that those living in border areas do not worry, and that the people representing the army, or officers and soldiers at a very high level, are doing their job. I'm sure Bratislava Gasic regrets his statement. It takes time to forget that and his message, but he didn't plan that message the day before or I don't know what. And I, as a host to myself, can say that he is a host. Bratislav Gasic also hosts children and a large family, and Bratislav Gasic, Prime Minister, is an example. He's one of your best friends, a high-ranking official in Unique Serbia and you, I apologize, a mistake. Don't mind me, I won't say that Bratislava Gasic and I are some special friends, but Bratislav Gasic is like the mayor of Kruševac and as a man who is a businessman, he's done very well what was his job in private life and when he became defence minister. I'll listen today, JS, to what you suggested, but please make it a criterion for everything. If today one of your best friends is leaving, where he verbally said, and that physically no one has had any damage, he has injured, of course, all women in Serbia, that you apply that criterion to others, whatever parties they are from. I think today is an indication that you are a righteous man and that anyone who gets a certain function must respect what his task is. Unique Serbia will vote for the shift of Bratislava Gasic because you said so and suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48754	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48755	First of all, with gratitude to you for your correct words to Bratislava Gasic, what I understood to Dragane as a wish, he is still vice president of the SNS, not... (Dear Markovic, from the scene: only if you find him.) Everything's okay, I'm kidding. Still St. De Experi said being human means being responsible. I made this decision and the others agreed to it in the government just to show that it was possible to act more seriously, more responsibly, and there was no pressure. Mostly, I would smile to press those who lived on Bratislava Gasic verbally, and who did much worse than Bratislava Gasic, who did much worse than all of us. I have prepared for you, and in the course of the debate, I will show you these examples that have spoken a lot more difficult about women, but that has never been talked about in public. Even if they said so, everyone saw it better forgotten, to disappear, and Bratislav Gasic remained as a paradigm of something rude, not because he was really more rude than these people, but because he had to put a political blow on the government that I led, and that was the only way to manage it. But they're not who we're doing this for, and I would never do it for them. They can protest every day where they want and all they want. We are doing this because of Serbia's decent Serbia, which does not see politics in every word, because of Serbia living for its future, because of Serbia living for its children, for its different faces, rather than for Serbia's day-to-day political setups, political intrigues and political swearings. That's why we're doing it. So did it do some good, so did they change their relationship or their dictionary? Well, it's not. It is hardly ever going to change, because in our country it has become a godly word both ugliest and most rude if it is addressed to the representatives of the government. They don't have any problem with that. If someone from the government, God forbid, dare to answer, even if it's lower intensity or weaker power, will literally be crucified to the cross in the general public. But I still think it's much more important how much responsibility and seriousness we show today, and what kind of society we want, and not what those who for understandable reasons are going to say about trying to get to power, want to get their privileges back, want to get their benefits back, and absolutely nothing more, and they don't have to choose the funds. Bratislav Gasic did his job well. Speaking of helicopters, since I'm not going to run away from that subject for one second, do you know how many times I'd have to resign for a helicopter or a plane? That is, by the way, Russian Federation Defence Minister, one of the closest people to Vladimir Putin. Do you know how many times? Not once, not ten times, not twenty, but 31 times, 31 times would have to resign. No one's ever asked him or asked him. Do you know how many times the U.S. Secretary of State would have to resign in the last five years alone? At least 24 times. No one's ever asked him or said anything to him. It is similar with many European countries. The problem with us is that, of ordinary things, things that, unfortunately, happen, which also happen from car accidents, which is also from jobs performed by soldiers and cops always and in everything, we make political cases. That is said and usually said by those who have no other political argument. But with that and in such difficult conditions, under the conditions of the most difficult possible heifes and haranga of Bratislava Gasic, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Government, for one second, I will remind you, I have not given in for one second. And I didn't care how much they were going to protest, I didn't care what they were going to say, because I knew what was true and what was motive and for that truth I wanted to fight for, for that truth that was so obvious to every well-intentioned man, that I think all normal people understood. We did it somewhere and in a kind of passionate way, because it was terrible how those attacks were carried out. As Andric says – passion is the expression of the best life force in man and a special indication of respect for itself. Somebody actually wanted what? Let's expose it completely. What did someone want with that hickey and that campaign? He wanted to say he was a murderer. He wanted to say that instead of saving, someone wanted to kill that child and the doctors. Is that what you're saying? Because if there were mistakes in the procedure, then they'd say, well, maybe it's someone in that military chain. But they didn't care. You've seen different institutions – give us a report. They pulled what was right with them from the report. When it comes to the end of the report, we don't like the report, because the report tells us, the disciplinary commissions, something we didn't predict, which we don't like. When the facts don't match, that's worse by the facts. I just want to remove this dilemma, I wasn't worried at all for one second about that kind of hajka and the campaign to be led against Gasic and against the state of Serbia and against the government after this case. I was terrified of his reaction. I was terrified of the dictionary, and I called him, I think, the second I saw him, and I said it to his face. That's what I'm saying today. You're right, Mr. Markovic, it's not easy for me to find a better co-worker in a party I run than Bratislava Gasic. It's really hard for me because I think he's a good man, because I think he's a valuable man, because I think he's a good host. But it's something that needs to change. I listed something in that moment that is, as I would say, a little bit personal, but each of you here, imagine that your daughter is a journalist and hears something like that. Well, that's unimaginable. It just can't happen. It doesn't matter who abuses it after, who does what. That's unimaginable and that's the essential reason. A better, more decent and more modern Serbia cannot be built on such a public discourse. This is why we show that we are different not only from those before us, Mr. Markovic, but we are different from those who give us the tirads and lectures, and on the day he did it or the day after Bata Gasic did it, they did a lot worse than that and they continued to give us the tirads and political lectures on this matter, without any shame, without any shame. Not to mention who supported them all. What we do, we do for Serbia, and we don't do for one, the other, the third man, the other or the third political organization. I think people in our country understand that somewhere. It is much easier for me to deal with numbers, to deal with the economy, to deal with many other important things, but this is also very important, because this must show a clean, white and light face of Serbia, and not to constantly show our face which, I fear, is not as nice or as close as Serbia's face can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48756	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48757	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected members of the Serbian government, with his work so far, including the proposal for the resolution of Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic and the Government at whose direction he is headed, shows that they are not being targeted by the government for the sake of power, but that they consider the highest executive power in our country as an act of national and state interest. When Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic said inappropriate words to journalist Zlatija Labovic in Tristenik on December 6th in Tristenik, he made an apology to her and our public on the same day, saying he had no justification for his statement and that he sincerely regretted it. He thus showed that he was not appointed a self-defense minister, but a defence minister. The problem is to make a mistake, but it's much bigger if she doesn't recognize herself, if she doesn't confess and correct herself. The apology came immediately from the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, who, however, said that the apology was not enough, that it was a bad message for all women, that the statement was a reason for the shift, that the draft must be withdrawn and that the government wants decent and modern Serbia. So we MPs and MPs from the DHSS-SP Parliament Club agree with the prime minister's finding that the said statement by Minister Gasic was a bad message for women, but we believe that the prime minister's words were a good message to the public that state officials must bear responsibility for each of their actions that violates the dignity and integrity of any citizen or citizen, in this case a woman and journalist. This is exactly the kind of decision that serious statesmen are different from some that are just politicians. We are aware that it was not easy for the prime minister to make this decision, but he made it immediately, therefore, quickly, as it is as soon as possible and realised here in parliament in an open and democratic debate. Otherwise, the prime minister's decision is a significant and positive newspaper in our country's political life and I really don't know a similar example in the political practice of Serbia, the region or the former Yugoslavia. When we talk about European rules of conduct and standards, that's exactly the attitudes, this kind of decision, these proposals give them meaning and content and bring us closer to the ideal of European orderly society, which means, above all, human, decent and polite. It is precisely because of such a relationship with citizens and citizens, according to vital state and national interests that have been expressed over the past three and a half years, the SPO and supports the Serbian government. We are with the Government from the declared and established principles of morality, honesty, integrity in political, public life and a fair relationship towards every woman and every man in our country, together with the baptizing and attaining the principles of responsibility for words and actions. Otherwise, as someone who served JNA 1985-1986 in Koprivnica and Karlovac and someone who had received the badge of an appropriate soldier, which was some of the highest recognition that could then be obtained, and an act which could also be obtained as an ordinary soldier in the infantry, as someone who had been a member of the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a long time, who followed the work of our defence ministries, I must say, Minister of Defence Bratislav Gasic has done his duty very well in this past period, because the root and comprehensive changes in our defence system can indeed be determined to go in the right direction. These changes began in 2012 at a time when the current prime minister of defence was taken over by current Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic and continued at the time of Minister Nebojko Rodic and, of course, former Minister Bratislava Gasic. I believe the ministers mentioned are responsible for restoring the reputation and trust of the Serbian Army, for developing and modernising our defence system, for strengthening the dedicated industry, increasing exports, training and professionalising military personnel, for improving the social and material status of military personnel. I would like to point out that the government of Serbia, the Ministry of Defence and Minister Gasic deserved that the Serbian Army was with its people at the most difficult times and with them. All we can think of is a quick and effective response at the time of the May 2014 flood. Many human lives and assets have been defended and protected by timely, determined response by state authorities. The most trained rescue teams from all over the world have given recognition to our members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army for the top professionalism and courage they showed in those days and weeks. It is also an important role of the Serbian Army in restoring damaged and collapsed facilities and infrastructures created after these floods. Mr. Gasic was not a salon minister, he did not just sit in his comfortable office, but was often on the ground, among the citizens, among the soldiers. He was in flooded areas, in military exercises, in barracks, in factories of the dedicated industry. He stayed with soldiers several times in the land security zone towards the administrative line towards Kosovo and Metohija, in that 300km-long band, whether it was the base of "Borance" on Kopalnik, the foot of Pancic's summit, or at the base "Šushnjak" or in other bases he visited with his associates. Material security and good living conditions of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army were one of the top priorities in the ministry's work. In the past year, I must point out, to commend, that more than a thousand members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence have been taken care of. For example, in resolving the housing issue of members of the garrison defence system across Serbia, there is a significant role in co-operation with local self-government, not only with the Directorate for the Construction of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to which members of the Ministry of Defence received keys from apartments on Belgrade's territory, particularly in Stepa Stepanovic's settlement. Co-operation with local self-government has produced 11 apartments in Pirot, in Leskovec 20, in Paracin 17, in Gornji Milanovac has provided 10 apartments in Vranj 22 apartments. There is a master plan by the Ministry of Defence to provide another 60 apartments in Novi Sad, Vrsac, Svilajnci, Kruševec and Užica. This is all due to the principle of subsidisation of loans, which provides housing for about 2,500 thousand members of the ministry, the military, and only last year about 650. According to the Law on Public Procurement, large savings in the defence portfolio and the Serbian Army were achieved, which was otherwise adopted here. The dedicated industry exported more than a billion euros worth of products last year. Thus, it doubled its exports compared to 2014. So it happened, for the first time, after 15 years, that traffic and exports of the dedicated industry were increased in that significant percentage. Serbia's military and the defence ministry have saved more than a billion and 200 million dinars, thanks to their safe, economic and rational business and behaviour, and these funds have been allocated to the dedicated industry for the purchase of necessary equipment and funds. By 2012, when ministers then traveled abroad, they were traveling with a dozen military figures and journalists. Minister Gasic abolished that practice. When he was traveling, he traveled alone, mostly accompanied by a military face. While his predecessors were housed in the most luxurious, expensive hotels, Mr. Gasic sought to save every dinar from the defence ministry and the Serbian government budget, i.e. the funds of Serbian citizens. Serbia as a military neutral country has built reliable friendships and partnerships both in the east and west. Our country's co-operation within the Partnership for Peace is becoming more and more relevant. I have to point out a very significant co-operation between our domestic defence portfolio and the U.S. Army in an area that may be the most dominant in relation to partners from other countries. The 2016 bilateral military co-operation plan envisions as much as 127 activities with the United States, which should be added to the training of Serbian Army members in the United States. In addition, half of all the international exercises that our members participate in are part of bilateral military co-operation with the United States. Military co-operation with the Russian Federation is on a constant rise. For example, in 2012, it was implemented with the Russian Federation Army of 12 joint activities, and this volume of co-operation grew, each year it increased, so that 34 joint activities were already in 2014 and mainly in the field of training and exercise. I note that in 2014 there was a joint exercise "Srem 2014" in Nikinci, and last year two joint exercises were carried out in the Russian Federation. Since 2012, a large number of military co-operation agreements have been confirmed and signed here. To mention only those we recently ratified here in parliament with Russia, Italy, Poland, Azerbaijan, Moldova. Serbia's military successfully participates in multi-national operations, so our country ranks among those actively involved in establishing and safeguarding peace and security in the world and to point out that members of the Serbian Army are participating in peace operations in Cyprus, Lebanon, Congo, the Central African Republic. So we are from a country that has had problems becoming part of the solution to the problem and the preservation of peace and security in the world. I would just like to mention that the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army have organised several extensive military exercises, and the united military exercise "Ravanica" by its own means has been an exercise that has not been organised since 1989. So for 25 years, we haven't had such a big and successful military exercise. It is a military exercise involving about 860 members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence. Because of what I mentioned, which is only part of these successful activities of the Ministry of Defence, Serbian citizens and have the highest confidence in the Army of Serbia, because data from relevant research, let's say from the end of last year show that 46% of our citizens have a favourable view of the military, which is much more than before 2012. With today's decision to make and to be voted by the SPO MPs, I believe that the percentage of confidence in Serbia's military will be even higher in the defence ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48758	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48759	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, today we have a debate on responsibility in Serbia's political life, even if that is the word spoken. This is something new in Serbia, something new in Serbia's political life, and that means that Serbia is changing. Serbia is changing for the better, introducing European standards, and maybe we don't notice that enough, I think others see it much more and much better than we do. I am proud that yesterday in the European Parliament a resolution has been adopted that commends what has been done in Serbia and what has been done in this period. No one mentions that, and that is a great result that has been recognised by the EU. The reason why we are discussing today and why we are sitting is the resolution of Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic. I would like to stress immediately that the SDPS will vote in favour of Alexander Vukic's motion for resolution and we believe that the statement made by Bratislava Gasic is reckless and this time is inappropriate. However, knowing Minister Gasic, I know he is honest and that the man responsible and his apology was sincere. I don't doubt that at all. That fact itself says that we still respect certain standards. Those standards are now high in Serbia. A high-level scale means below certain standards, which are EU standards, can no longer go. One of the things is responsibility for the public word. Please, this responsibility for a public word cannot be just for a particular group of people, especially those who are in government or who are in position. There must be the same arches. This responsibility must be for all public life participants. Being a public figure means responsibility. It means responsibility in its work, in its statements, and it means responsibility when we work for our country, for Serbia. That's what I have to point out right now and that's what I insist on. It also makes me very happy, the prime minister said some words in his presentation that I would like to hear often in this House. I'll repeat them, it's honesty, it's morality, it's decency, it's courtesy and it's responsibility. We often forget these words, and in this House they do not have the weight they should have in everyday life. If Serbia changes and changes, it must be in the public of Serbia, it must be where we live, in our environment, in every place we live and work. The resolution of Minister Gasic is also an opportunity to say something about his work. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia believes Bratislava Gasic has worked very well and has served as military minister. That has to be emphasized. It must also be highlighted what has been done in this area as regards the military, especially since 2012 and beyond. You know, the military was in another plan at some point. She was estranged. This army, an army of Serbia's state, accepts a new name - the People's Army. To obtain the term "national army" requires a lot of work, a lot of effort from all those members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, all those who live and work. We need the army of Serbia. If Serbia wants to be a serious state, it must have a well-organised army, a modernised army. Also, what's already said, this army, and it has an epithet of "the People's Army", because it helps the people, I won't emphasize in floods, I won't emphasize everything I've gone from Krupanj to beyond where people have shown me what was done in a short time, just to deny it. You need to go to the scene and see what it's done. That reputation didn't come from itself. It is the work of many who are in Serbia's military, and hence the minister of the army who led the organ. I would also like to point out that Serbia should have an army, a modern army, well-organized. Also, Serbia will not have an army to go to war. Serbia must have an army to defend the state of Serbia, and also organised to help various foreign missions. It's Serbia that has to show its pretty face. This army cannot and must not be alienated from the people, and if it wants to retain that epithet, it is this epithet of the people's army, I want the future minister to really continue on the path that is well-drawn. Of course, knowing and respecting Mr. Gasic, I want some new jobs to have results, I have no doubt, because he is worthy, responsible and he will know to do what is required of him, I know his views on life, on everything else, and that is why I wish him success in his work, and he bears responsibility, and he himself knows how he feels about all this was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48760	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48761	I would like to thank Madam President, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear Prime Minister you today who knows which path you confirm one responsible and serious relationship between you as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia towards society and the citizens of Serbia. You show by who knows which way you are willing to conduct a dialogue on all issues in a democratic game in the Republic Parliament, where different opinions can be heard, where different views can be heard, and, in fact, you in this way, in our opinion, make it clear that you as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and this government are absolutely not afraid of such a debate, there is no reason to hide anything, and you make it very clear that the truth is also of interest to you as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since we are talking specifically about the defence minister and the truth is Mr. Gasic's interest. Mr. Prime Minister, there are two key words for us when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – modernisation and reform. The key word when we talk about today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is courtesy. We're talking about the need to get out of public discourse all the negatives, all the things that could be defined as violence and become a decent state, a decent country in which we will communicate politely. It is very important to say that this is the first government, that you are the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to show work, not by saying that you care about decency and to the same extent that you respect the principle of responsibility. Neither in the case of Bratislav Gasic, nor in any other case, escaped from responsibility, no mistakes were hidden, lies were placed to cover any screwup. It is, in our opinion, the essence of decency – to work honestly and to be responsible for your mistakes, to have responsibility for what has been done. Mr. Bratislava Gasic, as defence minister, has, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary club, worked very honestly and responsibly his job. You, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, once said that Mr. Gasic worked ten times more, at least ten times better than those who had criticised him in the previous time period in the past few months, and we fully agree with you. With the support of the government of the Republic of Serbia as defence minister, Mr Gasic, in our opinion, had a clear vision of the development of the defence system. Serbia's army today enjoys huge citizens' trust. The army of Serbia was at a time that was very difficult for our citizens, for our people during a period of elemental disaster it was with its people and with its citizens. With the support of you as Prime Minister, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say that our potential and capacities have improved and improved the defence capacity of the country and that operational and functional security has been raised through investments. This and the previous government has shown that the dedicated industry is a driver for everything during 2013, and during 2014, and during 2015, significant funds have been invested right into the plants of the dedicated industry, correct me if I am wrong. I think that only during 2015 over 1,000 people, 1,000 citizens and Serbian citizens were employed in the dedicated industry factories. Also, the position and standard of members of the military and settled housing issues on the defence minister's initiative with one, I would say, is a fully socially responsible approach, which we fully support. In line with military neutrality, Serbia has developed friendly relations with countries' armies both east and west. The improvement of training and the continuation of participation in multinational UN-led operations certainly raised Serbia's military reputation, but also raised Serbia's reputation as a country in general. Representatives of the Serbian Army who participated in multinational operations, we have said that many times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will repeat this again today, are one of our best ambassadors that Serbia today has in the world. We believe that the results of Mr. Gasic as defence minister are visible and recognizable, that he has done a lot for the Serbian Army, as you said Mr. President in the opening statement, that he has done a lot for the Ministry of Defence and has done a lot for the intended industry. I will return to the beginning of the sentence, before I start talking about the results of the work, it would be incorrect not to talk about the results of the defence minister at the moment, because they are really visible and recognizable, but I will return to the beginning of the sentence when I said that Bratislav Gasic as defence minister worked fairly, and in the end he had the strength and courage to admit that he was wrong and to accept the consequences of that error. This is a serious step, progress in Serbian politics in which, Mr. President, absolutely no one has been guilty of anything for years and was not responsible for anything. It's also proof that we're becoming polite, that we're becoming a responsible society. You, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, are making a contribution to all of this. We accept your suggestion and suggestion when you said that we should not be representatives of parties and citizens, but an example for the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48762	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48763	Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers of Gasic and the other members of the Government, gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we as public officials know that the Constitution and the law obliges us to fight discrimination at every moment and place, and we must advocate gender equality. That's what you, Mr. Gasic, were aware of, but somehow in that moment, it was undetected to you, due to fatigue, various circumstances, that sentence that offended journalist B92. It is good that you immediately apologized, repented and promised to work even more and dedicated in the next period in the fight against discrimination and to fight for gender equality. With this proposal from the Prime Minister for your shift, you are punished and you are paying a price that no one in Serbia has ever paid so far, and thus this government introduces new standards, that anyone in the future who is careless, who will have to lose out on purpose or on purpose such a loss will have to pay the price that you are now paying. What you are present here today is human and politically correct, but it is incorrect that many of what you have said have tried to abuse and abuse by criticising the ministry's work and criticising the government's work. For me as a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, it was very important that every three months you personally and the Chief of Staff and your associates submitted reports on the results of the ministry's work. We discussed these reports on committees for hours and had the opportunity to give you words of praise and criticism. On this occasion, I cannot, as a member of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, look back at something that was good in my opinion, which shows good work for you as a minister and your associates. It is very important that you have achieved 1.1 billion dinars in your work so far for the sale of arms and military equipment, and according to the contracts signed in 2016, these revenues should be increased by 400 million dinars. The value of the permits issued for the export of arms and military equipment has been increased and amounts to over 750 million dinars. There are also significant savings from 1.3 billion dinars that you and your associates have achieved by working in the ministry. Very important information that more than 900 professional soldiers received a roof over their heads during 2015, while a total of 4,082 housing issues have been resolved for the last three years, from 2012 to today. Also, from 2012 to 2015, a total of 97 international exercises were implemented, of which 33 exercises with the United States, six exercises with Russian Federation armed forces and 58 exercises with EU countries. Serbia also hosted two international exercises: "Balkan Response" and "Loges 15". You've made a lot of international contacts, mostly for the last 10 years. According to 2012 surveys, namely "Transparency International", the defence system of the Republic of Serbia was in a group of countries at high risk of corruption in 2012, and according to the same survey in 2015 reduced the risk of corruption and Serbia was classified into this so-called Group C, where it is classified as a country with moderate risk of corruption. It is very important to increase the participation of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army in peace operations. For me as a woman, a politician, a MP and a member of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, it is very important to apply the 1325 Action Plan and the increased participation of soldiers in peace operations. We also have a lot of officers' wives. On the Committees on Defence and Home Affairs, we have often discussed how good it would be for Serbia to get the wife of the general. We have three colonels, and somewhere I thought that would happen during your term of office, because I knew you stood up for it. I think that would be very good for Serbia. The growth of production and the dedicated industry has also increased the number of employees in enterprises, and their salaries have been increased. Since 2012, 35,865 sets of new uniforms and 31,445 pairs of military boots have been purchased. The Zrenjanin and Požega garrisons were returned to the army, the casars in Somboro, Kruševec, Zrenjanin, the casary Topcider and Vasa Čaapić in Belgrade were arranged. It's only one part of the report that you and your associates regularly, every three months, personally submitted to the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. What I would like to say in the end is that the NS parliamentary group will support, regardless of all the insults you have made, Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's proposal for your resolution. I wish you on behalf of the NS Parliament Club a lot of success in your personal, professional and future political work.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48764	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will be working today after 1800 hours. The word has the People's MP Morocco Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48765	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, fellow MPs, today's session, as the prime minister said, was called to show new political decency in Serbia, which the government is declaring. I think the debate on this subject is everything, just not a promotion of political decency. If political decency was to be shown, a case following a statement by the defence minister addressed to a journalist, to whom, as we hear here, we have heard several times - the minister apologized, it was not the case. The minister apologized everything at night, when he realized that what he said was recorded in the camera. He didn't immediately apologize to the journalist and the others, but when it became a public topic. That is why we believe that this declared policy of decency has nothing to do with it. That's what the prime minister assured me when he said in his statement that he didn't care what those who believe the defence minister was responsible for when a helicopter crashed a little less than a year ago and seven lives were lost. Well, what kind of decency is that, if you don't want to hear what people have to ask about that case, what do Serbian citizens want to know? What happened on the night of March 13th last year? Why did seven Serbian citizens lose their lives? Is it, and that's what worries me most, whether the whole action was imagined to be in all the daily newspapers, and not just in one daily newspaper, which they obviously released before the press report on the successful finished action? Was someone’s concern to be promoted that day, which unfortunately cost seven lives? For these two years, as much as Mr Gasic's mandate lasted, it is not the only case when we of the opposition felt that he was not doing well, that he had come out of the law framework and asked for his shift. I will remind you of the first case when a fight took place in late September with members of Cobra, military soldiers, with members of Gendarmeria, members of Kobra, who were on the street along with the brother of the Prime Minister and Mayor of Belgrade. That case is in court today, but that case here in the Assembly couldn't get an epilogue. The assembly refused, and the board refused to discuss what was happening that day and how the Kobra members found themselves on the streets along with the prime minister and mayor's brother. In those days, a story of illegal listening was opened, i.e. an illegal monitoring of the activities of political parties by the VBA. This was discussed at a meeting of the Security Control Committee, where the Citizens' Protector who launched the whole thing was present, with which the defence minister refused to co-operate for months. And then we asked for the resignation and discharge of the minister. We asked for the minister's resignation when, I don't know what caused it, he said he knew that the former defence minister during his term, Mr Sutanovac, had been listening to the president of the Republic, Mr Tadic. Well, then, when they asked him for evidence and for his claim, he started saying he didn't mean it like that. I'm hoping that this case might someday find an epilogue in court, because in the institutions of others we couldn't get to the epilogue. Finally, ahead of the election that will take place in the next two months, the government has decided to promote a policy of decency. Then, for two months, we've had a dance with the minister being removed, or that he won't be a minister anymore, and we're waiting for that day. Here, we've met him today. I see the Prime Minister resented the people who protested for these two months and reminded him of what he had promised. I don't know if it's also part of a declared policy of decency. Should there be no objection in this country to the work of the Prime Minister and the work of ministers? Will anyone who thinks differently be called a non-worker, a traitor, an incompetent, a thief, a liar, all that is in the daily statements of the SNS that are being published and spoken of? Mr. President, please don't let me and my fellow MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48766	You've watched the transmissions of all the parliaments in the world. So, if someone disagrees, they have the right to react within the limits of order in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48767	Thank you for meeting me now after two years of being allowed in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48768	You are speaking to the Prime Minister, and a little public, do not urge SNS MPs to approve of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48769	You know that our Rules of Procedure is forbidden and you have repeatedly warned other MPs when doing so, but apparently the Rules of Procedure do not apply to all the same...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48770	Okay, do you want me to suggest that they're banging pencils on the bench, since it's allowed?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48771	... And that's probably part of that political decency.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48772	Ambassador, don't waste your precious time, but tell me what you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48773	Thank you for taking care of my time, there's no need to worry about the Rules of Procedure because it's your duty, not to worry about my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48774	Somehow you don't have a conversationalist, I kindly ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48775	I have no intention of responding to these habits that I now hear in the O.R. and I am ready to discuss and debate everything because I believe that the policy that this government has been leading for four years, the policy of deception and lies, the lie on which the May 2014 victory was based, when the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic went up the stairs in front of the National Assembly and said the elections were stolen. We've been waiting three and a half years for the result of this investigation, to see who stole the election. We didn't get that answer. We have been waiting three and a half years for the resolution of various affairs, to see who stole what in Serbia, and who contributed to Serbia being a country headed for Europe, a country governed by law, a country in which institutions are respected, a country where politicians behave responsibly and politely. It's a good thing we have an election in two months. Citizens should not be afraid when they go to those elections, they should vote freely, they should vote in the belief that things in Serbia can change for the better. In that belief, they can vote for those they think can bring about that change. I believe that this policy that manages Serbia in the previous four almost years is not a policy that leads Serbia to the better, is not a policy that brings better life to citizens, is not a policy that will make Serbia less poor, but a policy where more poor people will be in Serbia. It is not a policy where young people will stay in Serbia, but rather a policy that drives young and talented people from Serbia. This is not a policy in which education and work are appreciated, but a policy in which false degrees of vocational studies come to the most important functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48776	Ambassador, please help me, somehow I can't follow the course of the session. Do we have what you're saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48777	I'm talking about jurisdiction policy. I'm just asking you to finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48778	I'll give you a minute longer. Yeah, well, courtesy. But it's not on the agenda for politeness. We are saying whether to give confidence to Minister Gasic or not to continue to run the Ministry of Defence, we are not talking about confidence in the government. Help me, as you have warned me, to apply the Rules of Procedure. Just me. Maybe others understood you, but I didn't really. I'll give you a minute longer because of my intrusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48779	No problem. I can agree with you what the subject is, which is written at the meeting's meeting, but I was talking about the political decency that we are here for, as the Prime Minister said, and the question of accepting responsibility, which is all the things that are being discussed today. I call on all fellow MPs and those who have so far declared themselves and who have not so far declared themselves to vote for the resolution of the defence minister, for not being an enlightened "helicopter" affair, for not being enlightened by members of the military in the security of the president and mayor of Belgrade's brother, because it has not been changed and no one has sanctioned it because of the illegal monitoring of political parties' activities by the VBA, because we have not received an answer on the alleged affair of listening to the president of the Republic by the former defence minister, because the Anti-Corruption Agency has determined that when Gasic was mayor, he was acting as mayor, he has unlawfully assigned money to televisions owned by his family members. And finally, because he insulted the journalist and apologized to her only when he realized that the camera was on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48780	Thank you. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all, Mr Milicevic, I want to tell you that in Serbia's defence industry we hired 2,115 new people. What we had problems in 2013 and 2014 is exactly what you know from your city, in “Krusik” in Valjevo. We have a clear trend of growth everywhere else. But, as you know, I'm coming to Valjevo soon to open a new chaplain. We're going to solve a number of problems and I think we're going to beat Bosnia and Herzegovina on the market. We are also going with a new factory in Uzic, so on this issue Bratislav Gasic has done significantly more than I have done and many others who have been in his place, and it concerns the dedicated industry. I brought it here so I'll show you all the revenues and the number of employees per year in each of Serbia's defence industry factories, to see how Serbia is progressing on this issue. We're not satisfied yet, it's not good enough, we've got more problems. Salaries in "First Partisan" did not grow, in all other factories they did, I mean even in "Freedom" of Chachanska that they were quite growing. So there are very good, good results and contracts that were signed specifically for export were never greater and more significant. Also, I'll try to answer everything you said. I find your debate polite, although I didn't understand the need for elevated decibels, you don't get anything on the argument. But, you know, sometimes Joe Bernard Shaw said -- when a man wants to kill a tiger, he calls it sports, and when a tiger starts killing him, we call it cruelty. It's that kind of political hypocrisy that we're exposed to every day. I'll try point-by-point, answer every one of your remarks and show the citizens what the real truth is. First of all, I've been trying for the past year and nine months, as far as I'm the Prime Minister, not to embarrass Serbia, I've been telling the government the same thing. It won't be easy for me to find a hard word or a rude statement in that year and nine months, although there would be some I wish they were a little less milder. I don't think I've said a single word or a sentence. I didn't even when you used to say the words "stort", "storage", "bitango", etc., and then I didn't say any bad words, not a bad word, not a bad word. I think that's what people who have arguments can do, people who aren't afraid of the truth and who aren't afraid to argue. As far as political decency is concerned, I will show you today what political rudeness is and what you have served and what you have done in this House and beyond Parliament only in the previous year and nine months, what statements you have made, how you have addressed your political opponents. So I started that story with the definition of hypocrisy that Shaw provided. As for seven of our citizens who lost their lives in one accident, a terrible accident, yes, we were all terribly concerned. That night while you and everyone else were sleeping, the job of Bratislava Gasic and everyone else was to go around the scene, that by four and fifteen, half-five were trying to find a helicopter because our devices didn't work either. We couldn't locate it, it was a terrible fog, terrible cold and everything. I'm sure it hasn't been as difficult for anyone as Bratislava Gasic. We lost people, and in their best interest to help one child. But I wonder, who are the people who can use it as an argument in political struggle? I, honourable MPs, this is also important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, now to read to you only during their government how many tragedies we have had, a fatal accident. Just so you can see that no one on this issue has ever led such a campaign, a campaign of hysterias, lies, brutal untrues, and I think there's a difference in that. Namely, on 21 May 2008, it was not in the power of Bratislava Gasic, your political party, in the area of the village of Baranda, the municipality of Pančevo, was the crash of the aircraft's “Orao” registration number 25.114 000 from the 98 air base. Airship pilot Janik Tomas in catapultation sustained fractures in the first degree of the left sternum vertebrae. On September 24th, at Batajnica Airport, an aircraft crash "Super seagull" occurred when squadron commander Istvan Canas suffered fatal injuries. I'm asking you if you remember that at all. You don't remember. You don't remember. You don't remember because nobody ever wanted to abuse it in any way and it showed that Serbia was becoming a more normal country and a more decent country somewhere. On July 7th 2009, at Batajnica Airport, a MiG-29 aircraft crash occurred, while pilot Rada Rangelovic was also injured by fatal injuries at the post of Chief of Staff. Also found at the crash site was the charred corpse of Michael Ulemek, a soldier of the PSC. Do you remember those cases? I don't think 99% of Serbian citizens remember. Why doesn't he remember? Well, because some decent people didn't want to abuse it for political struggles, even if we did, and if any of us did, it was proof that we weren't mature enough, that we weren't decent enough, but even by how many people remember themselves they'd figure out whether we did it or not. On 3 June 2010, you are still in power, not Mr. Gasic or anyone else, at Lake Gruž near Knic during the mission of the flight to restore and perfect flight management technique in the performance of the combined maneuver, there was an accident of the aircraft “Orao”, during the pilot of the aircraft Slobodan Jocic, in the catapulting he sustained injuries to the spinal column. On June 18, 2012, you continued to be in power, on the Pasuljanska meadow polygon when the troops were trained on the march with a move to attack, there was an explosion of ABG-30 millimeter missile which resulted in fatalities for two cadets of 133 class of the Military Academy, serious physical injuries for four cadets of 133 class of the Military Academy and minor physical injuries for three cadets of the same class. The explosion, to be interesting, occurred in the immediate vicinity of the camproom during teaching. We have two events with fatal consequences, which is two days after I became a minister, by chance or not, and when I became a minister, I did not transfer responsibility to the previous minister, although these duties were initiated prior to the transfer of duties even though they were realised on the basis of the decisions of the previous minister and the then chief of general staff of the Serbian Army, I did not say it for one second, and then two of our soldiers were killed. So I'm just telling you, as you can see, that list is almost infinite. I have here words about Nebojsa Milic and Slavisa Markovic, whose families I immediately visited and saw what it is that the Serbian Army, which the Serbian state can help. And what's most interesting is that, and I guess we'll talk about that later, and that's the case of Goran Savić and the flight on Lasta, which is what happened on 26 September 2012, according to teaching, is the decision that gives the consent that the final summer test of the "Lasta" zero series of aircraft can be started before the introduction of the P2 prototype and military equipment. I gave you all this so that you respected MPs and respected citizens of Serbia could see what hypocrisy, how terrible hypocrisy we've been talking all this time. In all this, you've never heard of me accusing the previous ministers from this case, because I felt that no one had a bad desire. Because I felt that the intention was, regardless of certain negligence, some of the speeches that filed criminal charges and were criminal acts, I personally didn't consider it, it's the work of other authorities, it's not our politician's job, and therefore there's nothing the Assembly has to do about it, but other authorities should do about it. That there was no intention, especially the evil intentions of no one before us. But it wasn't enough for you either, because it was necessary to catch on to anything and say anything bad, please don't throw it at me, be polite, as I told you to study before elementary school, and I'm afraid that many of you, don't shout and that you're rude and you still have to yell at me, clearly telling me how much your arguments hurt. But these arguments can't be lifted, the facts are facts. You say you should've promoted your concern. All the time she's been promoted to worry, all the time. And at every moment we've talked to these people, their families, at every moment we've looked to help as a country as much as we can, not only as a state. You say Minister Gasic is responsible for beating the cobras because they happened to be somewhere. I'm sorry, it's a terrible sin to know my brother, you know, they were on my escort, and they went as a predecessor to my parents' house. The terrible sin, the most fearsome grace, is that they were beaten up, that they were beastly beaten and that they had not defended themselves for one second. I can imagine what would have happened if they wouldn't have given up God by chance. And it's a shame, it's not done, it's never been done to you. These are things that are absolutely not done. And you're doing it because you don't have any arguments. Because there is no policy you can promote. Because the policy you're promoting is a policy of exclusion and hatred and nothing else. Hate, ladies and gentlemen, eats the hater, not the object and objects of hate. Hysterical and smile and laugh at me better than anything tells me how right I am, but people know. As far as listening, speaking of which, I don't know exactly what Bratislav Gasic was saying, but I know what I'm going to tell you, even though I've never done it before, and I think I said it once along the way, somewhere I never wanted to get into it. You were listening to me. You were listening to Tomislav Nikolic. You've been listening to opposition leaders the whole time. You've had four actions with me that you've been listening to me through. One of them where I was tapped, through the MP here, present, because you found a legal excuse to declare him an extremist, so God forbids protecting the country from extremism, you're all those who would talk to him on the phone to measure it. Well, that's how you've been listening to me. I'm giving you information, and I can give you all the evidence I can about it. Whenever you want to go, I'll show you. It's not for the public. Well, it's a shame you're telling us about listening. It's like that other tap. Well, when we go to the polygraph, then we don't go to the polygraph anymore. Well, the lie detector, so we're not going to the lie detector. I resented Bratislava Gasic for poor co-operation with the Citizens' Protector although I do not always agree or can not agree with what he is saying and I could say there – it is a good argument. You're saying I resented something to someone who's protesting. I've never resented anyone protesting. Every day, dozens of people are protesting in front of the Serbian government. The only thing I said was that I wouldn't give up on anyone's protest and under any pressure because I was convinced that I was defending the truth, that I was protecting the truth and that I was absolutely right. Otherwise, it's a right, you have the right to a free gathering, very broadly in our country, there have been no problems in the last year and nine months, no more serious incident existed, not even in the freedom of expression of various freedoms, not even many extremist groups, we have not had any problems, nor will we have any problems. As for the insult, it's hard to even talk about it, it's hard for me to answer that, because we almost didn't listen to anything else, we didn't hear anything else. Whenever there's a serious debate, a debate that needs to be backed up by facts, numbers, anything, knowledge, approach, perspective, we'd be offended. You want me to tell you how many officials were looking forward to the most disgusting calls that were pronounced, and then it was even said – well, it wasn't one individual, but it was the crowds shouting; everyone was happy and satisfied that it was happening even though up to a year or two ago when they cried out in the stadium -- save Serbia; and I don't know how it goes on, which you never heard was supported on our side, not at that time. Also, as for the dictionary used, I think that people can hear it well, and that people see it well, neither “wrest,” nor “steam,” nor “bitango,” did it come out of my mouth, and when the wrong words came out of Mr. Babic’s mouth, I would also publicly warn him of such a thing. I even called one opposition leader on the phone and apologized for it. I think it's jurisdiction... National MP Zoran Zivkovic throws it away. As God, please, do not shout, for what you say will not stop me from telling the truth ever and will not scare me... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: The president said... And you won't even scare me...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48782	Mr. Zivkovic, pick up the word, and I'll give you my word. Don't interrupt the Prime Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: You said I was yelling... Keep going, please, Mr. President. I know someone would like us to take a little off this discussion, but I'm asking you to proceed and I'll take care of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48783	You were talking about fake diplomas. So all the college licenses you're saying were issued by fake diplomas you gave. It's not us, it's you. By the way, Your Honor, I don't have any fake diplomas. The school I graduated from, I ended up with a relatively good, very good, excellent success, a college with excellent grades. This was the University of Belgrade, the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which even had a scholarship to develop the scientific and artistic youth that I received as soon as I started my studies. I didn't do politics, nothing. This I have obtained by my work, by my teaching, by no means of help, and I keep asking you – what is this all about? You want to talk about some other people. I'm ready for those people you talk about every day the worst and say they're probably less educated, let's do any kind of test so we can find out if you're more educated than Heavenly Stefanovic or not. I'm prepared in any sphere of social life to do so, even though it turns out I'm wrong, that I'm responsible, but then you're also responsible for many of your colleagues. We made a deal and we'll try to do it. I think it's very important for Serbia's future. Also, you're saying that young people are leaving the country. It seems that no one has given you information – they go, it won't be easy to stop, there's a natural tendency for people to go and make more money. There is a natural tendency for people to perfect themselves, to live better, we cannot measure ourselves with the countries of Western Europe, with the United States, but the outflow from that country is four times smaller than it was at the time of your government. Four times smaller. I'll give you accurate and accurate data - four times smaller. So whatever we've reduced, something's easier, something's better. You say you're calling the election. I think it's an extraordinary opportunity. You're talking about changes. I think that change is very important, but first of all we have to think about how to change ourselves, not how we stay the same or equally bad, and how we'd like others to be in our tastes. So I would ask you to go to those elections that I don't want to talk about, to go to those elections, to participate democratically, to win, but only if the people say so, only if the citizens say so. I don't know who's going to win, I'm just absolutely sure of one thing, it's that Serbian citizens don't want to tap into the city, they don't want to go backwards, they don't want to go back in the past, Serbian citizens go into the future and want the future, I'm quite sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48784	It's allowed disdain, not to throw away, this is the difference. The word has Milan Krkobibić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48785	Dear Mrs Gojkovic, Mr. President, honourable MPs, today's session of the Serbian Parliament is atypical on the subject, but also on the debate. I hope she stays atypical until the end. Today's theme, honourable MPs, Mr. President, is a publicly spoken word and responsibility for that publicly spoken word. That word was possibly clumsy, reckless, unreasonable, but we all agree that it was not suitable for a public function bearer. A team before the holder of that post is the Secretary of Defense. Why do I say Secretary of Defense? Mr. Gasic knows that, I suppose all previous defence ministers also know that the leaders of such resistors must have a certain personal integrity. It's a big, complex system. Systems that don't tolerate improvisation and systems that require people to handle them from integrity. So, here I am inclined to be a little bit atypical, I don't know Mr. Gasic in detail, I know that the Prime Minister was also a defence minister and that all the people who were at the head of that ministry have this personal integrity. That's why I'd go back to this subject, which means "publicly spoken word." The ministry's work assessment of the minister's work, Mr. Gasic, was given. I would not lamentate over it, nor in any way in this address would I "forgive" from Mr Gasic. When I say "forgiven," under the pretenses, just because he's here today in front of us, sitting there, putting up with us, and he's ready to look us in the eye, he's got a future. If he hadn't been here today and we had discussed him, discussed him, expressed views, Mr. Gasic would have gone on a grant. As far as the Department of Defense is concerned, what I would particularly point out, and I'm going to hold on to that, these are the results that she purposely achieved. I'm talking like a businessman, they've made a move. I repeat, it was and it was and it was and it's going to remain a complex system and it's up to all of us to improve that system. It's about the results. It is important for each defence minister to define what he found from the previous minister and to move the system forward at least a little while at his departure. I think this system is moving towards better, and above all, in the field of the dedicated industry, where I see that you have a noticeable number of new employees, that you have new markets and that financial indicators are quite justified. But let's go back to this basic subject today. Today is February 5, 2016. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I think this is also a special date. In our political history, we have debated, debated and discussed large or less large affairs, large or minor abuses, and we will make decisions like this or such, but this is a unique opportunity for us, in front of all of us, to put out a publicly spoken word. A word is a miracle, dear friends. One great poet once said, "I've been killed by too many words." It is easy, sometimes thoughtlessly pointed out, then, like a lump, it goes and takes the form of an avalanche. This was a political avalanche. Mr. Gasic is buried with this avalanche, and we have to agree, but he's out of it and he's standing right here in front of us. Why did I tell you to remember this date? Today, Serbia, Serbia's political history is not the same as it was yesterday. Tomorrow must be different. Why? All of us who perform public office must think carefully about what we are, what we said and when we say. Otherwise, we tend to realize that our people – the people of short memory, that yesterday spoken does not commit anyone today, and therefore I see this debate today as extremely important, I see it as atypical, and I see it as something that will be healing for our political scene, that it will bring down tensions and that we will begin to deal with topics. When I told you about the Army as a big system, big systems don't tolerate improvisation. There are procedures. Everything that has happened in Serbia's military, in its history and in its history, unfavorable events, not only am I inclined, but I am absolutely convinced that there has never been an evil intention. We can say undetectedly to each other this or that, but I absolutely do not believe that there is an evil intention to question certain human lives, not only in this Parliament, not only in the previous or in this government, but also in future authorities. It's not part of the mentality and identity of this people. I'm going back to this part of the debate now. The Prime Minister reacted in the way expected of the Prime Minister, fully responsible. Was it easy for him? I guess not. A similar topic was touched by our great writer Mesa Selimovic - you are in a position to choose between a great and loyal friendship and a commitment that gives you the letter of law and duty and you have to choose. It's a difficult dilemma, and only people who have integrity can solve it, but also people who have a real friend who can understand it. I am glad that the minister is sitting here, that he did not go and say – no, I am not guilty, I do not accept it, or it is not rare – yes, I am now going to create a new political party. That's what it says about that human integrity. Therefore, from the point of view of our parliamentary group and myself personally, this should be a turning point of view on the Serbian political scene, to enable and open a new page of the political chapter, especially when it comes to publicly spoken words. Mr. Mijatovic, allow me to disagree with you, with responsibility for the spoken word. Public office holders have a special responsibility for the spoken word and this responsibility is much greater than those that are not, of course, with full respect, not all other participants in public life are free of responsibility. The parliamentary group and I will vote personally on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48786	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48787	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Prime Minister, Ministers, Honored Representatives of the Army of Serbia and fellow MPs and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we also welcomed this day, said the prime minister, very rare, when we replace one of the ministers of this government on a proposal from the Prime Minister. Gasic could have been removed in a different way, he could have resigned. Then it would be convincing that his regret and his apology are truly sincere and serious. It has been almost two months since the day Bratislav Gasic publicly told the cameras, saying, "I love these journalists who kneel so easily." Women in Serbia have experienced another humiliation, another insult, reviling, surprise and disgust has gone through Serbia, social networks have been heated up, journalists have been publicly organised. The media broke through the wall of silence and human rights organisations raised their voices. The reaction was so much that even the prime minister could no longer defend Bratislava Gasic, although he wanted to. The prime minister said Gasic was doing the minister's job well and that this statement is the only reason for the shift. He announced his shift more than a month and a half ago. He broke today, or proposing this session, presenting his decision as a great sacrifice to the citizens of Serbia because he gave up his good, almost best friend. Why has this issue of the shift of Gasic been delayed so long? There's one very simple reason. We can't get the impression that this session today actually needs to contribute to the creation of a pre-election mood on the threshold of a new election, a new election campaign. At this session, the government and the prime minister want to achieve an important goal, hypocritically courting women who make up such a large percentage of our electoral body, create an illusion of their principled proponents of gender equality, anti-discrimination fighters and representatives of European values. In that light, in light of these upcoming choices, we need to watch this session. Otherwise, Minister Gasic could resign himself and we would not talk about it today. So, the intention of this government and these ruling majority is to make this session their point and the shift of Gasic also, instead of being the topic of her responsibility. The Democratic Party will, of course, vote in favour of the shift of Bratislava Gasic, with great satisfaction, not sharing in this the prime minister's confidence and confidence in the majority about the excellence of Gasic as defence minister, because we respect what thinkers, theorists, the creators of the social democratic thought that we today respect, that freedom in one society is measured by the degree of freedom of women in that society. The people who represent this country and the citizens of this country, the people who have the highest positions... I'm talking about courtesy, colleagues from the ruling majority, so it would be good if you tried to adjust your cries a little bit accordingly. So those people who have the highest positions in this country, who represent the citizens of this country, they give a tone, they traverse the value system. You do so in the language you use and in the specific manner you present yourself to the citizens of Serbia. You show what is desirable behavior in one society, you dominantly, and if ministers treat women in this way, should we be surprised that we find such a language in the street, in traffic, buses, media, schools, etc? Well, they respect that the sexist statement by Minister Gasic is also a huge disgrace to this government. In this society that is traditionally anti-female, in which there are deposits of war and war violence, in which domestic violence reigns, we have statistics every day, where hate speech against women is embedded in everyday life and practice, where discrimination against women happens when they seek work, and then when they find it, they learn not to have children because they will get fired, in such a society 15 years ago this country has decided to adopt a strategy for gender equality, laws that will protect gender equality, anti-discrimination laws, including women. By his statement, Bratislava Gasic violated the country's laws. This is not just a matter of his decency or rudeness. We do not accept that this debate is conducted only in these frameworks. The laws of this country have been violated by Minister Gasic. The fact that the statement is directed at journalists, or journalists, is even more a reason for the conviction of Bratislava Gasic, because it is an indicator of his attitude towards the public. The minister who wants the press to kneel to him says that he understands the freedom of the media. How does he just talk to reporters when there's no cameras? Was this statement, however, by Bratislav Gasic a coincidence? Did she slip or not? Is it contrary to the tone and style of communication imposed by this government since 2014, but also since 2012? It doesn't matter, because we've had the same public discourse for four years. No, and that's why we don't believe he's lost her. Every day, people from the government, from the Republic to the local level, from various levels of inappropriate expressions and languages, clap our public. Political dialogue in our country has been deprived of any dignity and relations between political opponents and critics of the government are totally unacceptable to a democratic country. It creates and promotes a tabloid machine that violates the fundamental rights and freedoms and violates the laws of this country. That's what international documents say, I'm not going to quote them. Party statements with such hate language are being held. We know that this comes from the legacy of the practice "The Great Serbia". We all recognize that, but also the citizens of Serbia. Then it is said to us: "The people understand us better, for we are not kind, and yet the people are offended, for they are humbled and accepted as a free people." We don't believe our people are free. Let's remember those statements. You want me to name a few of them? "That the seeds of evil should be eradicated, Dragana Dilas," "Pajtic is a mental patient and a psychopath", "the opposition is the fifth column," and because of that statement, the prime minister apologized, "we will clean up his political opponents". Here is recently one of the ministers said that unsatisfactory doctors should move out, apropo evictions, and citizens who are not satisfied should find another state. Mr. Prime Minister, if you are really bothered by your favorite party friend and minister's statement, why and how could you, for your advisor, take Dominic Stros Khan, a man who in his own party and his own country has become contaminated, unattractive, unacceptable, and precisely because of his relationship with women who have respected him justly or unjustly, this is a matter of the country's institution? Contrary to his vast expertise, which no one slows down, his public functions in his country and in the general public in normal and democratic society have become inaccessible everywhere, but it seems you didn't mind. The fall of Bratislava Gasic is not only his shame, but it is the government's shame and responsibility in general, and most of all the Prime Minister, because he is his choice. That's his man, that's the vice president of the ruling party. How does the Prime Minister want us to believe that with such personnel, he thinks he's setting Serbia up on European principles and foundations and rooting out European values, human rights and freedoms in it? It's hard for us to believe that, but we believe even in your good intentions. Mr. Prime Minister, you like to refer to German examples and German politicians. I assume you also know the example of German Prime Minister Willy Branta, who, the moment he was shown that one of his ministers worked for some foreign services, resigned. He resigned because of his wrong choice, because of his responsibility for misjudged his co-worker. It's a very educational example. We are now coming up with another key issue – is this statement the only reason why it was necessary to resolve and replace Minister Bratislava Gasic? No, and the reason for his shift is pretty long. The list of reasons for his shift is quite long. From the very beginning, Bratislava Gasic has been a controversial proposal for a minister. If he had been removed when the first doubts and first affairs occurred, he probably wouldn't have been able to show us what everything is capable of saying. The people of Krushevac know a lot about it. Bratislav Gasic has repeatedly shown that he does not respect the laws of this country or the institutions that are based under the law. We remember the case with the Protector of the Citizens, and when he challenged the Protector's right to control the work of the state authorities. I will quote a statement by the Citizens' Protector: "The behaviour of Minister Gasic, who was not announced by the Protector in the VBA cabinet, was at the beginning and during the meeting below every institutional and elemental level of jurisdiction. The minister first challenged the legal authority of the Protector to access the case documentation, spoke of his alleged political ambitions, proposed to use his powers in the legal case, interrupted the VBA and Protector director's conversation and finally told the Citizens' Protector that the army served in the cafeteria, St. Kovac's coffee kitchen, forced the Citizens' Protector to leave the meeting. “ We remember the tragedy in the helicopter when seven people died. It's no ordinary case. It is true that accidents happen in various combats, exercises, etc. It's one risk that goes with this profession and should be deeply regretted for all the victims of these cases, but this is a special case because this was about civilians who wanted to be helped. You see, we don't want to judge or declare the guilty. We do not overestimate our responsibilities, nor our powers, but if the ruling majority really cares about showing responsibility, why did she not accept the proposal from Parliament Gordana Komic to set up a committee of inquiry in this Assembly, which would help in a certain way, with the equal participation of all the political parties present in this assembly, to consider the circumstances under which the tragedy occurred? I think for all the victims of this tragedy it would be of great importance and help, no politicization and no cheap political points. The way Bratislav Gasic led the military, the dedicated industry, about what the material position of the army is today, will be spoken by my colleagues. To point out once again, we will vote for the shift of Bratislava Gasic, but our vote is in no way amnesty of responsibility for all failures, both himself and the Prime Minister and the entire government. In the end, let me say one more thing. Sometimes in our society, machinism is something that, even with some sympathy, experiences easily. It's called - he's a macho. We must build together a culture and society in which every notion and phenomenon of machinism will be condemned. Therefore, the machinism, which Gasic showed in his statement, is not random, he leans on one way of communicating in this government, a language of hatred that is manifested to political opponents, the violence we see in local elections, to the one deception of citizens of various incorrect statistics. We believe that the citizens will eventually connect these two things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48788	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48789	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you said a rare day we welcomed, and you and I have never welcomed him to be removed from any minister. It just didn't work out with you. For much more difficult things, for much more difficult statements, much more difficult insults, you didn't think of. That's the kind of hypocrisy I was talking about earlier or Shakespeare said, "God gave you one face, you do the other." That's how you see everything in others that you don't see in yourself and how you don't see in others the good things you see in your mind. You said here he could resign, so that's the scariest hypocrisy. At least five of your officials spoke – must not be allowed to resign. Everyone you've called on, you've spoken to the public, you can't let them, the whole public knows that, because he's not the one who can go after this by resigning. Since he didn't resign, since we came bravely before you to tell us what it is you have, what it is you can tell us, then you said – you shouldn't have come here, you should have resigned. Was he supposed to resign now or should we have replaced him here? You don't know it yourself. Whatever happened, you'd say otherwise. And that's sad, I don't think I'm funny, even though I'm smiling because it says what your policy is like. More sad than funny. You say – it's a system that was created, it's not only Bata Gasic, I apologize to Bratislava, we all call it Bata Gasic, it's not him, and now I see that kind of rudeness doesn't bother you, as it did before. So, you say -- terrible what he said about the press, terrible what he said about the woman. I agree, so Bratislav Gasic, if we have the majority today, will be removed. It's terrible what he did and there's no excuse, he said it himself. Whether he said it in the morning or in the evening anyway, but he said it and we were waiting for him to say it. We have never welcomed you from any of you, nor those who are ten times worse in such a public discussion than Bratislav Gasic, which I will now show you and prove to you. You seem to like these experiences, so you'd like to learn more about these insults, on account of women, on behalf of journalists, and on behalf of everyone else. I'll read to you distinguished ladies and gentlemen, Goran Jesic is a member of the DS, the vice president of the DS. So he's got the same function as Bratislav Gasic with us, he's vice president of the DS. Here's what the vice president of the party said that it advocated European values, has long forgotten them, a party that says it advocates gender equality, has long forgotten it, here's to hear it. Journalist "Alo" newspaper asked DS Vice President – excuse me, what car are you driving? The answer of Vice President DS, I quote - what do you care what I bought, what are these two words that are terribly ugly now, you can imagine what two words are, they're unthinkable to read and I won't read them – what are these... What I bought. So that it can't be scarier – I don't have to report anything to people. Please don't throw it at me. It doesn't make any sense what you're doing. Now that I see you don't care, it's funny to you, it's funny to you now, and you've just had your mouth full of women's rights while you should have shown it to the people, and now you find it funny to talk about this. You see, the difference is that I don't think it's funny when Bata Gasic says it, or when DS Vice President Goran Jesic says it much worse. That's the big difference between you and me. There is a sequel – where else in the world there is someone you can question about what it has to do with property. Then one man says to him: "It is not fair, I expect better from you." He responds to it – what kind of journalist and newspaper, that's what the answer is. So much for respecting the journalistic profession, so much for respecting women. That's what he says, people tell him -- the problem is the way he treats a journalist. That is what he says, and it is an impolite question. People tell him, the answer is rude, and the question may be unpleasant to you. Although it shouldn't if it's legal and legal. This one suits him – crying, stealing. I guess that's still the highlight of what I would say is the philosophical approach of the DS representative on the European path. Then she announces - she is not a journalist at all, because what they make is not a newspaper, who else are you to ask me who your firm is for, who are your partners, and how much do you earn? For DS, these are forbidden issues, as they were even though their mouths are full of stories about censorships and dictatorships and everything else. Next, after the cocktail I organized where I served the press, they always answer every question and it's not always pleasant, but it's your job to answer the public to everyone, sometimes unpleasant, sometimes unprofessional, but it's your job, your obligation, and mine. Then he said - half-world journalistic. Is this some new European practice or tradition or something I don't know what it is? I'm afraid it doesn't have much to do with Europe and more advanced, more decent and better Serbia. That's what the supplement goes to, when another opposition political leader said Zvezdan Jovanovic Gavrilo Principe, and then said stupid is a journalist. The stupid journalist did not say SNS vice president, the Democratic Party vice president, was not responding and has not been removed from any post. He never said I'm sorry, one heavy side of the Serbian word I'm sorry. I don't understand that foreign service, but I'm afraid you have one side of the word much more pronounced, namely the lack of that foreign word, and that's sorry. Then you told a reporter who was talking about your source, the boss of one of your headquarters, not the same one who said about your chief of staff – your source is a donkey with a big M. Then you said – the same journalist, the same newspaper, the same journalist, the same text, the journalist who killed me in DM last night, I told her that she was a journalist like Omar Abubakar. Do you know who Omar Abubakar is? It's some football player, and he doesn't exactly look like that Omar Abubakar, believe me. This one is tall and black, and Jesic doesn't look like him. So I just want to tell you how he wanted to offend that journalist and that woman. Next, we come up with examples of other colleagues of yours, also vice presidents. It seems to have become fashion and very popular in your party, attacks on women, especially those who think otherwise, especially those who think, who dare to oppose you and who dare to say something different. Then a tweet is supported on Twitter that insults Marija Jovicic, employed as a junior adviser to the SNS group's MP in the Serbian Parliament, which says – do you kneel at SNS meetings. Well, since it doesn't occur to you to go public with it right now and be distracted, to apologize, at least the way I apologized to the public, even as I apologized to you after that stupid Babic statement about the fifth column, anything to do. It's funny, and I don't think it's funny. I'm sad that you're never able to apologize. It's okay to say for one statement that she's stupid, each of us has made such statements, only you haven't made them, until we start reading them, and when we start reading them, then we have all day until noon to read them, we can't stop. And all you have is a smile, a laugh, and there's no other responsible answer. The difference is, and the bottom line is, we put things in the right place. The point is that someone is responsible, and someone is simply not responsible. You were just talking about a fight between the cops and the cops. Ask your colleagues from the party you once belonged to, you should know that. You have at least nine incidents between the cops and the cops, because I'm keeping the state from telling you why and what were the reasons for these incidents? Come on, I'll tell you, I can tell you I guess one of the people here. Who were they protecting and why and in what situations were they protecting him? This wasn't like that. Just enough to keep an eye on you. Incidentally, even by the nature of the work I've been doing all this time, I've known such details, and they've never appeared anywhere in public, nor would it be normal for them to appear in public. So all I ask is that when you judge someone, judge yourself first. First, watch how and how you did it, and then judge others. You say Dusan Vujovic said doctors should move out. He never said it, but you make it up once, and you make it up through that tabloid press, which you really like when he has to say that I've been giving 120 marks to someone I've never seen in my life, some junkie, some lunatic, who knows who and then that's okay, that's okay? Now, such announcements that Vujovic said so and then we have the whole case with what Vujovic said and that man never said it. He just wanted to leave the O.R. because of what you said. No, you shouldn't have. They shouldn't have left the gym because the truth here is not written by those who have one eye, and the other eye when it's needed, and the other eye only opens when they need to look for something, or when they need to get out with those ideas or those attitudes, because there's not a lot of ideas that would suit them. You're saying someone wants to say we're not nice. We want to say that we are nice and unlike you who have not taken action against any of your vice presidents, we have taken steps towards the minister. That is why we are talking here today about the resolution of Minister Gasic, which is why we are different from you, because we will never welcome that day to you, and we are here on those days and how we welcomed. You were talking about first affairs. I don't know what the first affairs are, are you talking about tabloid journalism? You were talking about the helicopter again - they were civilians. It's a military helicopter, and the military serves to help civilians and to help their people, nothing weird, nothing bad. Otherwise, I can talk very professionally about it here, to see what orders are given in your time for helicopter takeoff. I have everything and orders here and a way to get out and to whom, when anyone asks for a link between Foca and Belgrade, when they need to be transferred to VMA. You think I'm gonna blame you for that? You think I mean something wrong with that? No, on the contrary, the army is there to serve their people, the army is there to help their people at all times and at all times. Somehow you forgot all these accidents, accidents. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I haven't forgotten either, not one. You forgot all those accidents and accidents and you didn't remember them, you just remembered those you thought were appropriate to you. You don't have to shout at all, not for one second, because I'm going to repeat, the height of the decibel you're using doesn't strengthen your argument at all. You were saying why we didn't pick a polling board, talk about cheap political points, so all you do is do it all the time, just keep looking for cheap political points. You know all the time that everything around the helicopter is clean, as you know there weren't any reporters at the airport, as you know they invented it on RTS, as you know everyone else did. For nothing and for apologizing, because that's how it was appropriate for everyone. I'm asking you now who was at the airport? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Throwing.) Well, he wasn't, he wasn't, or any of the reporters, and don't throw away. It would've been great if he'd been, especially if he'd been without a reporter, because that would've put all your story in an ambience, and the journalist was nowhere to be found. Seeing as I can see there's no answer to how you've been listening to me or why you've been listening. One quarter of Djukanovic was listening to me because of you. It wasn't because of you, it was because of them. What was the name of that action you were listening to me in? "Jumbir", it is. The action is "Djumbur" in which they listen to Djukanovic in order to listen to me and then all those who talk to Djukanovic, and Djukanovic was known as extremists, believe it or not, because he worked on Focus Radio. That was the reason for the tap, for you to smile. We lived in such a country, and they talk to me about the rule of law and about European values. As far as sexist statements are concerned, I agree with you and I am confident that you will condemn the brutal sexist and masquerade statements that come from your colleagues, just as I have condemned them and just as I have condemned those who came from Bratislava Gasic, and in that we differ, which I condemn all of them, and you only those who politically suit you, and those who do not suit you politically, never judge. Even if you condemn them, there's no responsibility. Also, you said that we don't know what big victims we're playing. No, that's what you do all the time. All the time you've been saying how much violence we've had in the local elections. Only in the municipality of Voždovac in 2011 was there reported twice as many attacks on SNS activists as all incidents that occurred in the previous three and a half years in all local elections together. Only in one election in 2011, local, on Vozdovac, only one. But what you're going to do, and what I said up there, I guess, for the sake of argument, is worse by the facts. When you can't understand the people's will and when you don't like the people's will, then best to make excuses and always have so-called. Apologising reason. The difference is also, let me tell you, the essential thing where you see responsibility and the fact that at a time when we think it's important to take big steps towards the EU, to keep great co-operation with Russia, with everyone, when we think that by 2020 we can take big steps, steps of seven miles to our membership in Europe, so that this reform road is not interrupted as long as it is realized, we do so at a time when we have a clear undivided majority in this House and I would say that we were not a minority in the people. I'm not saying that we had most of it, it certainly seems to me that we had unequivocal legality and rather clear legitimacy. What's the difference? In that you are not interested in the fact that you have no legitimacy at all where you rule, but only for so long in that power in such an illegal way can we remain and survive. The difference is, and I'm proud of that fact, which I would never want to be in power if I had six and seven percent support or 10% support, and you're acting like a drunk float, with both hands for a chair, just so that after 16 years you don't leave it. It's a habit, it's grown, it's not for the heart, it's grown up for the body, we can't separate ourselves from the chair, we're 16 years in that chair -- I don't give a chair at all costs, if they can choose the last possible day to be. That's the difference. We tell you - no problem, you question our legitimacy, here you go, here you go, win the election, show that the people's will is on your side, and it will be different. Do not ask me questions as they are asked in public – whether or not someone will stay away. Someone will get away and when they have four times as much as you have today, not if they don't have a clear people's will, because we're handling what we're going to do, what it is we can do for our people, not how long to sit in power, how much privilege we have to seize, and about other things that are with these privileges I won't even talk about this time. In the end, as for women and addressing women, it was strange for me today when I heard the expression, which I see our ladies in parliament use everything, it's a soldier. I don't think I've ever said the word soldier. Obviously, I'm going to have to change myself and study, and I don't have a problem with that, I don't have a problem with that. But I was also always against those like from the old days almost confederal Yugoslavia when everything went according to key. I'd like a woman to be 60%, sometimes 40%, depending on ability and diligence, not on our keys. I'm sure at all times I've shown respect for women, shown respect for their work, shown respect for you and for everyone else. I think so much more that what Bratislav Gasic did was not only bad, not only wrong, but I was really at first moment and horrified and that impression didn't change until today. But my impression hasn't changed for all these others who were much worse, much more disgusting than Bratislav Gasic, who you forgot and who you didn't mention. Why? Because it doesn't suit you politically. Well, that's the difference. There's a difference in responsibility and decency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48790	Thank you. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48791	Thank you, President of the Assembly. As for the fact that there hasn't been a minister's shift before, I don't think you, Prime Minister, are right. Minister Dinkic was replaced in our time, he was resolved, so that's not true. As for whether it was supposed to be this session or not, we didn't say it wasn't supposed to be this session, but we thought it was supposed to be two months ago, not at the start of the election campaign. As for legitimacy, we do not dispute your legitimacy, we do not agree with your policy and with the disastrous consequences of your policy. As for the legislation in Vojvodina, that legitimacy was won in the elections, the elections were won in four years, and when the time came, those elections would be. We don't run away from our responsibilities. As for Vice President Jesic, I have a logical question based on what you said, Prime Minister. If you represent the opinion that we should replace Vice President Jesic in the DS, will you remove Vice President Gasic from your party?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48792	President, you have a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48793	Gentlemen, dear friends, I think you've heard everything now. Now you've heard everything. I'm just gonna try to point out what we heard. So, Mrs Vuckovic said – are you ready to replace Bata Gasic if we replace Goran Jesic? They'd make people some kind of shop to make on principles. Well, we don't want trade, we want politics, and that's why we're replacing Bata Gasic and we don't care about Jesic. We show you that principles are important, that ideas are important, that the idea of modern and decent Serbia is important, not tants for tants or tants for corn. That's what you'd like, that's politics for you and that's what we're different about. Let me remind you, you're for Zorana Mihajlovic, that same Jesic said that she, may I say, is a milf. Do you know what it means? It's a creepy thing. Instead of going out and saying, that is a disgrace, you say, "Let us trade for a little while, you change this one, and we will change that one." Here, we're replacing ours because we don't think he can be a minister after such a statement, and let Jesic do it for you, let this other one be who he is, because that's what you deserve. Just like that, not better than that. This election story in Vojvodina, it's a sad story, and I'm not going to add anything to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48794	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48795	Thank you, President. President of the Government with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a truly strange and rare day in Serbian parliamentaryism. We should not forget that Serbian citizens are closely monitoring this direct transmission. It is an obligation for all of us, because in this previous three hours, we have mentioned almost many times the word of decency, to remember that we are today holding a class of political competence for the citizens of Serbia, all of us present today, and that we should respond to all the challenges, to different provocations both on the one hand and on the other. I'm ordering this to both the opposition and the position. It's very difficult, it's hard to participate in this debate today, because somewhere in the conflict between the political passions that led you to respond to the sent-off lie and, on the other hand, the truth you need to say, to come to the face of those who had previously told you a lie. There's a degree of decency and decency right there. It should be returned, but it should be returned to its arguments. I am today asking all participants in the debate to stick to arguments, to put lies and insults aside, because this is something that will not help anyone, and Serbia's citizens will long, long think about today's session. Today we show face all of us. It wasn't easy for anyone to organise this kind of debate today. That's my personal impression, and I might be wrong. I'm thinking from the point of view of someone who wants to be serious, for a long time to deal with politics. I'm thinking that in ten years, someone will list these statements of ours and honor us for what direction we were headed at that moment. Are we the leaders of Serbia at this point? Is this 250 MPs, all with representatives of the government, who are the most educated, most reputable, most responsible for what is happening in our country? All of our abilities need to be packed into laws, in different regulations under which we will live in our country. That's what we need to continue today's discussion. Knowing Prime Minister Vukic, for the past few years working together in the party, I see exactly how much energy he chooses the words he will address. I'm focusing once again, knowing him I'm guessing a thought flow in his head that triggers false provocations of opposition MPs. There's this measure of decency. The moment we hold today will be exactly the way we dictate tone and rhythm to the entire society in Serbia. That's what the prime minister was talking about at the beginning, about that kind of decency. The largest number of debaters in front of the parties today are women. It also sends a certain message. It's not a deal. I was surprised today when I looked at the list of authorities. This means that we want to address Prime Minister Vukic and Minister Gasic directly and say that we are looking at what happened in the previous period and what we are planning to do next. I am extremely proud of the government of Serbia, or Prime Minister Vukic, who wanted us all to look ourselves in the eye, to get a whole day's space where the special opposition will be able to conduct a part of the election campaign for free. So far in these three hours, as a journalist and someone who's been doing political campaigns, I wouldn't say they're doing it the right way. They knew long ago about this session, they were supposed to prepare much, much more seriously. For days I prepared myself by reading a bunch of material about the achievements of the Ministry of Defense. When you want to do an evaluation of someone's work, it's necessary, it's necessary to compare it to the previous period. What I was based on was a previous period, because it's the best indicator of whether we're out today or not. The period from 2007 to 2012, when Minister Sutanovac led the Ministry of Defence, brought so many irregularities, so many negative things, so many failures by the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, so much humiliation in that sector, and everything else. How did I figure that out? Well, looking at the figures that happened from half to today. You could hear them today from many speakers, you'll hear them during the day. We'll talk about it because it should be said that there are huge savings, that savings are more than 11m euros. These are the savings on derivatives, on energy, on fuel, on travels, on the reduction of many unnecessary costs. We need to say that our export licenses, our traffic, our weapons are over $750 million. Greater growth is expected. What am I talking about these numbers for? It's something that was much, much lower in the previous period. About donations to the Ministry of Defence, revenues from the sale of NGOs, nine million euros. International military co-operation by the Ministry of Defence doesn't require much talk. The agreements we made in the previous period speak for co-operation, Serbia's reputation in the world. What was then the defence minister, Mr. Vucic, and later Mr. Gasic continued in his international military co-operation significantly established the foundations for the next period. Standard of soldiers, housing issues, housing care, something that's been paid a lot of attention. Nine hundred members of the Serbian Army, the defence ministry, have been taken care of. What is very important and we will talk about it during the day – warehouses, army reserves, food stores, wardrobes, equipment, it was all empty. I'm just giving this as a thesis that I'm assuming we're going to talk about during the day, because we need to talk. We need to talk about why the warehouses in the army were empty, why was it ordered daily, why was it only ordered with one client? We need to talk about all this today. Today they're full of food stores, 100%, uniforms, army equipment. What we're talking about, it's a degree of corruption in the military. Transparens International was a radio research published in 2011 and recently in 2014. In those three years, a significant step was taken, 45% of Serbia's better position. Of the 77 indicators, in 33 indicators we have shown significant progress. So, the Serbian army today is in the 40 best-placed armies in the world, when we talk about the danger of corruption. Now we are also in Group C, a moderate risk, unlike the previous period until 2012, when we were in a group of high-risk corruption. There's only one more thing to say about the army. It's very important to me. We've re-returned secondary military education for sub-offices, which significantly helps the military's reputation in the coming period. Someone wanted us not to have enough schoolwork. Voluntary military service is something to talk about in Serbia. It's not supposed to be a principle, it's supposed to be a possibility for those who want to be part of that system. We once received more than 2,500 people for voluntary service in the previous period before 2012 to 1,000. There's a lot more, we'll talk during the day. What's startled me in my previous presentations, it's political hypocrisy. And you could hear that more than once. I want to ask the citizens to escort that degree of political hypocrisy they will hear by the end of the day. At this point, the colleague speaks very briefly, only at the beginning of her address, on gender equality and on the position of the woman in Serbia, only briefly, because it is convenient to mention at the beginning of the speech. The point is something else, the point is to get small political points. The point is to mention by who knows which way half-fake affairs or events that have already been given an epilogue, but to repeat them, keep repeating them because they do not have a political programme. It is difficult to repeat the items of the political programme, but it is not bad to repeat some of the general places, so whoever hears, he hears. You know, when you repeat the lie a hundred times, it becomes the truth. That's how they convinced themselves that they are winning and taking over power in Serbia. None of us, not one member of the SNS, can safely predict your next election. I'd be unserious to do that. We can rely on research, on forecasts. Each, until the last member of the SNS is seriously prepared, from the moment we took responsibility for power, is being prepared seriously for the next elections and we are yet to have a campaign, a serious organisation, a serious work with citizens. And this, free marketing today in the Serbian Parliament for the opposition, I don't think it's going in the right direction. A colleague, Vukkovic, is talking about decency, asking for courtesy, sitting in front of Dragan Sutanovac, who tweets about Serbian Parliament counterparts in the worst way possible, sitting in front of counterpart Pavicevic, who spoke so uglyly yesterday about SNS MPs, sitting in front of Mr Zivkovic, who spoke the ugliest, ugly words in the Serbian Parliament. Really, I'm sorry that my colleague isn't here to answer, how come, before you throw a stone at someone, think if I have the right to say it? Everything I've said here today can be repeated in ten years and I stand behind every word I say and I won't be ashamed. Can everyone say again today what they said here? When we talk about the bad attitude of SNS to women, according to the position of women, that was just ridiculous. By coming to power in 2012, really thanks to the previous election law, we have 30% of women in the Serbian Parliament. But what is not prescribed by law, which is not prescribed by quota, is the seat of the board president in the Serbian Parliament. We have 20 committees. Eight women in the Serbian parliament are presidents of the assembly committees. It can't be imposed, there's no quota, there's no law. You're being selected by your colleagues. They want you to be the one to lead the assembly committee. It's not from sociological research, that women run committees dealing with health, education, culture, social issues. Yes, and we're here because we care about these areas. Well, this time it's different. Aleksandra Tomic is the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Trade and Tourism, Aleksandra Djurovic is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I am the chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. Things change a lot. I don't want to talk about the position of President of Parliament. We had a previous practice and Serbia is proud of it. Not to mention the governor's target. Not to mention the minister's position in the Serbian government. Should we talk about that the SNS formed the Co-ordination Body for Gender Equality, which is in the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister. It never was, either. There was a body, a small body, a small administration in the ministry. We have significantly improved the attitude towards women, not declaratively, seriously, legally, assigning women exactly the responsibility, the most serious tasks. That trust that's been shown to women, well, that's the attitude towards women. That's the attitude of the SNS to the position of the woman. Violence, the rise in violence in Serbia, is all we can talk about. Of course there's an increase and we all have to fight it. No one says it's not like that. It is important to consider what the percentage of the increase in recorded domestic violence is, thanks to the strength of women, which we say every day intensively over the last four years, that we should report domestic violence, that there are mechanisms in the country that will protect them, and that we must work together to combat violence against women and family. Prime Minister Vukic was in a safe house, talking to the protégés of the house, talking to people and organisations dealing with violence against women and families. We've agreed on a further course in which direction we can help. I don't want to talk about how many individuals have helped institutions that fight violence against women and families, how much we have helped many of them get jobs, to help them in difficult, expensive legal processes, to help obtain basic documents, because these women and children have run out of everything, without a single document, without the basic resources. Now, that's the real attitude towards victims of violence, and that's how it's done systematically and seriously, it's declared the easiest. One more thing, I couldn't help laughing when opposition representatives say they will introduce European values to Serbia. That's what someone who's sitting on, who's the boss of Pitiæ, who's kidnapping the disabled kids. Those must be European values, you'll agree. One more thing about the Committee, whose chairman I am, was it necessary to form a survey committee to investigate the unfortunate events surrounding the helicopter crash? I don't think that would be good. I don't think it's necessary to give another space for free political marketing to someone who's going to mock the unfortunate fates of people. That would be easy political points, that would be a political circus. I don't think that in a situation where there were victims and members of the military and civilian victims that several MPs could make a significant contribution to the resolution and discovery of the truth. The other thing is, you got the results, the epilogue, as a result of the work of serious expert commissions you didn't like. But then that's what it's supposed to say, not hide under some other veil, insist on a polling committee. I am sure that during the day we will hear from other DS colleagues, I am keenly interested in what extent the previous ministers will have when they talk about the results of today's minister, Gasic. What Bratislava Gasic said, we all agreed, is unacceptable. What he did, they'll suffer sanctions. That's what we agreed on. But the defence ministry's results, he's the best defence minister, that's what the data says, everyone has to confirm. Another brief impression, last night I was in the King, in the stands, where there were about 500 citizens. Minister Gasic first, addressing himself, apologized to all the women present in the hall, if they felt offended and said it certainly didn't work easy for him to leave that position, because the plans he had with the Ministry of Defence, the projects he started, were passionate about with all his heart, he went forward, that can be confirmed by his associates, but he is aware that this is inadmissible, he is aware that we are now setting new standards in responsibility from the SNS, members of the government, for the spoken word. He accepted the shift and stayed to work in the party, to do his best, within all his capacities, to make them available to make the best possible results. And some of their colleagues, the moment they're asked to resign or relieve them, they're leaving and making a new party. They're getting mad so fast. Thank you, we will support, personally reluctantly, the resignation of Minister Gasic, but I want to hear many times today about the results of both Minister Gasic and the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48796	Thank you. Replica, personally mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48797	I thank you, Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, dear ministers, for reporting on a replica that was supposed to be possible even before, because there are lies here in an attempt to show Mr. Gasic's positive work being false about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48798	You can only replicate about the thing in which you received the replica, the rest must be the president of your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48799	Just please concentrate a little, and you'll understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48800	Yes, thank you for your advice and respect, of course, me as president.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48801	It was discussed how much and what results were in the past with a special emphasis on negative results by 2012 and fantastic results since 2012. I'll talk about the spiral of Serbia's army's collapse when it comes to my time, and the results are from a bulletin that betrays...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48802	Ambassador, with my greatest desire to allow you to speak, you do not wish to replicate your rude tweeting, to say whether it was so or not...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48803	I've been mentioned twice. I've been mentioned twice, ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48804	So please, take it easy. I have as much time as you want, but we have to stick to the rules of conduct in parliament. So you'll get the word, you're seventh on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48805	I'm sorry, didn't I hear you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48806	Please, is that within this courtesy that Mrs. Vukkovic warned us about? Is that so?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48807	Yeah, yeah. It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48808	So now be as polite as your party, so sit tight, and we'll continue here, you'll be the seventh, and you'll talk about whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48809	Let me finish the replica of my colleague who mentioned me twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48810	She didn't mention you twice. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: she mentioned me twice.) ) So this is Parliament, not some other public place where we can argue, throw and convince each other, and somehow by chance, the Rules of Procedure say that I lead. You've got 150 other MPs, and you can't hear two sentences. Well, the prime minister is a disgrace. Well, can't I get a few minutes to get a word in? ) MP, would you be kind enough to allow me to say something within the competence of the Democratic Party and your criteria about how someone behaves politely in Serbia and how someone is rude? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I only ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. I respect the Rules of Procedure and sit down, please. And where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that I have to sit? I can respect him even more, make warnings, but somehow I don't want to respect the whole. I am taking the hand of the MP, because he is not satisfied with how I conduct the session, he does not allow me to lead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: What is this? What's this for? ) Okay, I understand that you don't want to introduce the principle of responsibility for the first time in our country's history, but please don't harass 249 MPs who would really talk about the subject we're here for. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Well, I just answered to talk about the subject.) That's right, you're the seventh on the list. Please do not torture other people and torture the entire Serbian public who carefully observes, monitors the course of this debate and acts of violence with me. I'm very strong, mentally, to endure all of this. I know your radicals, your brushes... El so, thank you for everything, it's important that you don't know me from the thief, that's the most important thing in Serbia. Dear Shutanovac, from where I don't know you. ) Now you have shown what it looks like within your party respect for a woman who has a high, responsible function, and now we interrupt this, because I feel humiliated when I discuss it this way. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Please, first speech, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48811	First, to determine the facts, according to the prime minister's words in the past days, today is January 36th and it is not Friday but Monday, as it was promised that the minister would be removed by the end of January. We received a memo from Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, which says, on the basis of members of this and that, I request and propose that the defence minister, the defence of Bratislava Gasic, be resolved, so I ask whether this applies to the defence minister or if it is a special part of the defence. That's what the document says. Of course, I don't think Mr. Gasic is guilty and of course he should be removed, but it's not his fault, he was just doing what he saw. He'll be remembered for a lot of things, mostly because he couldn't find that battery for MiG-23 or 29, so he had to find it for Putin, but everything else is that he looked up to his party leader and Prime Minister. This means that, for example, the attitude towards women, of course, is inadmissible by what Gasic said, but it is also unacceptable what Vukic did towards Olija Bećkovic that he took off the programme. According to Danica Vučetic, according to many other women who had to flee journalism because Vukic replaced them. A helicopter, a helicopter affair, the death of seven people who are due to high indemnity, primarily the Secretary of Defense. The situation was that he ordered a helicopter to be picked up without need, because the child could have been transported by car, and there are clear data about it. A helicopter was picked up for another purpose at that time. He was raised in impossible conditions for flight, forced to attempt landing at an airport where he never landed. These are all the acts written in a report today on the Ministry of Defence site of Serbia. On that same site, those same documents said that Minister Lonchar was at the airport. That's what it says. I don't do research. Therefore, this is inadmissible, and this should have been done in a serious investigation, not to indicate, or partial guilty persons being punished for not being able to advance in the army for a year, two generals, as I recall. That's sad. Compared to anything in the past is a disaster. It's a disaster because I'm not going to justify what happened before, but if anyone thinks it was illegal, let them start an investigation today. By the way, Vuk Obradovic has been removed, one of the ministers due to a similar act as is now Gasic, and also Dragan Vesenov and Tomica Milosavljevic, etc., have been replaced along the way. It's a tap. He complained to the prime minister that he was tapped and said he was illegal; as far as I could tell. Legally? If it's legal, then don't complain. If it's illegal, then you're violating a member, so I don't remind you of that, 332. A criminal code, which obliges you to report to the perpetrator of a criminal offence, if it was an illegal tap. Other ministers also learn from their party president and from the prime minister. This is the smallest government in mankind's history, there's a minister who's also the Prime Minister. All others are statisticians who get from day to day, from situation to situation, from topic to topic, a little space, but of course they themselves say, if someone asks them any more serious question, they say -- as the Prime Minister decides, as the party president decides. So that's evidence, there's no need for me to prove it to you. So we'll get back to the fact that our economic situation is phenomenal, that we were surprised by the 250m-euro surplus in January, and then we admit that there's 100m of something else that's been sold permanently, and that's totally fine. But if you have a surplus, and I'm getting word from some of my friends from Kucura, so share the backlogs to farmers, workers who have lost their jobs, and the state owes them wages, do something for this country. Don't be surprised, don't faint.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48812	Thank you. Five minutes. Please, just a little more quiet so I can run the session. The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48813	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, repeating the same things, as Franklin Delano Roosevelt said, doesn't turn a lie into the truth. As you speed up your exposure, the higher your tone, it also doesn't make it more true and accurate. I'll try to analyze everything you said. You've come from formal remarks. Bratislava Gasic does not serve as defence minister before the end of January, just as I said. The assembly's resolution is required and before that, Minister of Finance Vujovic is performing his duties. It was done in January. Maybe this could be both in March and April, maybe I'd be a month, two or three late, but with such decisions you're never late. There's never been a similar decision. The cases you mentioned, not that they had anything to do with this, and not that they had anything to do with the statements, but they had something to do with what someone was talking about trying to rape, not the statements. So it wasn't about the statement, it was about how who and who and who he was jumping, chasing, and I don't know what else he was doing. And it was a political affair about what it would do and how it would react. So, if you were most bothered that someone who typed the text was writing a Cyrillic letter, not to be using another language of "defense" instead of "defense", I accept, very sorry about that, it's one terrible mistake we made. You say – Bratislav Gasic did not find the battery. Bratislav Gasic found batteries, but they weren't batteries from yesterday, but from much earlier, but nobody else told him that these batteries existed and weren't in many conditions and those batteries were some of the others from your time and from your list lost, so they disappeared. So much for batteries. As for the mention of Mrs Bećkovic and Vucinić, I do not know what I would have to do with the team, and as for Mrs Vucinic, I must also tell you that I appreciate her work very much. I don't know where you found me about Mrs. Vucinic, I greatly appreciate her work, I don't think anything like Mrs. Bećkovic, but I won't even think of anyone to justify myself for anything I've talked about countless times and what I've already had to swallow countless times as an axe on my head. As far as Danica Vukinić is concerned, I absolutely think she did her job well. A helicopter. You say - Gasic sent a helicopter even though it could drive. He couldn't drive a car. He sent a helicopter not into tourism but to save one child just born, to try to save his life, with the best possible intention, and because it's our responsibility, because it's the obligation of the state. It wasn't that helicopter that went to tourism or to spend money, but to save one child, forced to land at an airport that didn't land, it was said to land where it was possible to land and where the control authorities said it could or could not land. You're talking about comparisons that they're a disaster. I think so. Every story you've ever produced is a disaster. Every story you run is a disaster. The disaster is decent in Serbia's ears, according to the ears of modern Serbia. If you want, it's the ears of normal Serbia. You who talk to me, talk to me about newspapers and talk about it in newspapers, you say – Vukic needs to go to the bathrooms, and I am proud to go around and go to the bathrooms in schools, hospitals and health homes in Serbia. The ones you left us in such a terrible state and that have not been renovated for 30 years. Yeah, we're gonna renovate them, but there's something else I need to tell you. That's what you're saying in the papers that you've been tearing up like this, you've brutally torn them up because it's a decent Serbia. You come to a press conference and then you take your newspaper and you rip it up in front of the press and you tell them it's garbage. If I were to quote you -- Serbia would have to if it wanted to survive so that this bastard wouldn't read; and then you leave, so as you say, I'm not saying it, and I don't mean it, and you say, "Vucic needs to go to the bathrooms." That's the difference between you and me. I'm proud to go to the bathrooms, and today I won't say it's garbage, and that's the difference. That's the difference that Serbian citizens see. That's the difference in decency, Your Honor, the huge difference. You say in something sold on kiosks is not a newspaper, in what is made of recycled toilet paper, and then inside says – We will seek protection from Zivkovic's call to the lynch; and then better I guess they forget, the toilets that Vukić will renovate and reconstruct. You're talking about legal listening or illegal. I would never have mentioned it if I hadn't been mentioned in the debate. By the way, I don't like that kind of stuff. Yes, it was done in accordance with the law, although I think it's law enforcement. It was done formally in accordance with the law. You are right, at the time there was the right for the competent state authorities to, if they consider that there are different extremist groups, have the right and the obligation to monitor the work of these extremist groups. They then placed in those extremists people who were certainly not extremists just because they were in contact with me or with Mr. Nikolic, so that they would legally have the right to listen to us and do so on a daily basis. So now some citizens are assessing whether the law and the protection of the law was the reason for it or whether the political needs of your coalition partners were the ones that produced it. You, sir, have otherwise allowed yourself the most terrible words and allow them and you must always think that haughtiness is worth it and that there is no good enough answer to haughtiness. And I think it's good enough and the best answer to being polite and responsible. And the more arrogant you are, the more polite we will be and the more we will want to have that normal Serbia. Well, you called your political opponents Zorana Mihajlovic and Stanislava Pak political blondes. When did one of us let that happen? When did one of us let that happen? Well, never anyone. There is no word you will choose and which you will say in a decent manner. You are the opposite of everything we fight for. It is you who are the politics of Serbia, all true what I have said, that you would hold Serbia's policy in the past, in the past of haughtiness, in the past of rudeness, in the past without any arguments, in the past of ignorance, in the lack of education, in the past, which should drown us all together and bring us back into that mud. Now, that's the thing that whatever you're trying to do, we're not gonna let it happen. We have the right to fight for Serbia's future. Serbia's future is our goal, to be different from what you stand for, because these are not even ideas from what you plead and what Serbia should look like. I think Serbia is a normal country and it will be both more modern and decent. As for the surplus, so we've been showing you here that we're going to have that 100 million, in the National Assembly I told you, MPs, you all remember that I told you about 13 billion, that we don't count them in the budget, and that they're going to come because we gave you a digital spectrum for Telecom, Telenor and VIP. You all remember, I've repeated that six times here in the budget debate and said, "We're holding it as an extra reserve." You say we pay the wages. Who? The workers of the ISK, who you shut down. Well, here, the salaries are paid to the workers of the ISK. The ISK is back in business, and you've closed it. Yes, salaries are also paid in the Ironworks you have closed. Yes, salaries are paid for many factories in Serbia that you have closed, in many factories in Serbia that you have closed. We can't do everything overnight, but what we can do, we can fight every day for every single one of those factories you've destroyed, for every one of those factories you've resold, that you've privatized and only the tycoons have become rich. We can, we can fight and we're fighting and we're boasting about the surplus, we're boasting about the stability of public finances, we're boasting that we have 9% lower unemployment than it was just four years ago. I don't think that's enough. I think people have a hard time living, but I think people see well who's fighting for them and who's fighting for Serbia and who's fighting for every factory. Yeah, we're just paying off, and they're paying off for all the farmers, everything that's lagging behind. They also went for military pensioners, for what you did to us in 2007, everything has already been paid off. So we started also to pay back the three hundred million euros of debt that "Srbigas" left us, which you left us in "Serbiagas" of old debts to "NIS" and "Gasprom" and we're paying it off, we've already paid 50m euros, we've taken the rest into public debt, and we're paying it back. All the things we didn't do and didn't deserve, we're coming back today, and we're fixing today. We'll keep fixing that. But as I would say, repeating the truth cannot turn them into the truth, and no matter how many times you say it, there are others in the world who measure someone's results. Our people will never be satisfied, they've never been satisfied, and I understand that. They have a reason. It's been a long time to live and very little trust in anyone. But I'm just asking you to respect what the IMF says and what the World Bank says, and what the IBRD says, and what everyone else says about the figures is expressing what the government did, and these figures say that something is better, and that it will be even better if we continue with the difficult, serious and responsible reforms, and without responsibility and decency, there will be no normal or modern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48814	What? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. () Replication to exactly what? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Ministerial address. ) No, it does not exist in Article 104 at direct address Oh, my God, am I gonna get my ass kicked today? [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I have no right to replica!]] Ambassador, I've been very patient, for five minutes you've talked about everything except the agenda, but since the Prime Minister is here, I have an understanding that someone doesn't want to talk. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Prime Minister, do I have the right to replication?- I'm sorry. Oh, my God. I will call upon Mrs Natasha Vukkovic to help me to have a part of the hall where she sits and calls for the courtesy of the MPs on my right, to help me bring this debate into a certain course. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Terrible! Well, I believe it's terrible when someone is decent, and someone else isn't used to it, but is used to the force to look for what doesn't belong to him. National MP Zoran Zivkovic throws it away. Thank you very much. I hope someone recorded one of the series of insults I've received in the last two years, but good. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Thank you very much. Omen six nomen, but it doesn't matter, I'm too busy. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48815	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, honored guests, I will first at the beginning, appreciating these unarticulated sounds sent by my fellow farmer, however dared to make a statement in this House, since they too consider him a sanctuary of democracy, but in practice they cannot prove it. Namely, it's about correction. The party representative of the former regime here said that freedoms in one country, one society can be appreciated for the freedoms it enjoys in the original, the quote reads "majority", in that country, in that society, and the party's representative of the former regime, of course, has plagiarized, but they are against plagiarists, and said that freedoms in a society can be appreciated for the freedoms enjoyed by women. For me, women are not minorities. They're also the numerical majority. Not in moral, nor in numerical, nor in any sense do I regard women as minorities. I have further evidence of the hypocrisy of the party of the former regime and its members. If they didn't know what that saying was, she could ask a colleague who had created those sayings for a hundred years, who sat next to her. He would surely have said, remember, all the sayings he had experienced in the last 100 years, she could have asked a respected fellow MP to explain to her that this saying refers to minorities, not women, because women are simply not minorities. Gentlemen, gentlemen of the government, education, the courtesy you spoke of is proven here as well. When you remain raised and polite to those who are extremely vulgar, ruthless, our people would say rude, blatant, who are yelled at – garbage, cattle, etc., and you have to find some extenuating circumstance for us here who suffer all this and to pay taxes on these insults. Mr. Prime Minister, my fellow farmer would be the biggest taxpayer in Serbia. I think he would make up for the 525,000 euros he received in a resourceful takeover, as it is said, of Fruske Gore, or its slopes. It would be his military achievement, unmistakable, which cost us not 525,000 euros, cost us 1,025,000 euros. He got what he had with the company sold to another firm, a tycoon who, by the way, was a friend, so that proves their fight against the tycoon. He sold it, but since this land was the subject of nationalisation and the subject of restitution, now the state land can no longer return. He must pay about 500,000 euros to legal followers of the Jaksic family who, my God, were guilty after the war only because they had 50 hectares of the country. We've had a bunch of these since the Prime Minister. Also, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, courtesy must be two-way. This is a photograph in which Antonella Riha, the great leader of the protest, who said, I suppose, to the democratic achievement of the former regime's party, is that the protests are aimed at forcing the Prime Minister to force MPs to vote for the replacement of the military minister, very democratic. Journalists who advocate democracy come to ask the Prime Minister to force MPs to vote for a shift. I thought democracy was something more, but it looks like these decent guys are a little smarter. Here next to Antonella Rihe writes, directly next to her, all these passwords are from one printer, "Gasic scum". The organizer of this protest was NUNS, UNS, NNV, Gruhonjic, Sidinovic, Vukasin, of Vranje there are no lies, 100 kilos of Vukasin, 200 kilos of lies, and disinformation is not counted. Also, I have to warn you, when we go out to one part of the press, this doesn't talk about all the journalists, of course, that we don't know, Mr. Prime Minister, whether we're in front of the press, I'm talking about the work of journalists, or political opponents who just masked their political work, bought not against the government, not against the MPs of the majority, but also against the state. That's my opinion. So we don't know if they're asking us for information or if we're being provoked. We're never clear. This absolutely did not surprise me, as did Jesic, who remained unpunished by this NUNS, UNS, his friend Gruhonjic, with whom his brother shared sponsoring arrangements in India, for the "Media Group". So, that kind of insult, of course, has run out of apologies, no punishment, no nothing. In order to be decent, to be brought up by Serbia, it must be multi-way, mutual, we cannot respect someone, and they can repay us with constant insults. We are men of flesh and blood, and we can be kidnapped by a word too word, can be a little unsaved joke, with which today the Assembly is most likely to deny the confidence of the once-resolved minister. As a victim of incredible insults to decency, I must say it's not polite to do this, but you can't even stay cold when a member of your former regime's party, who did this, still unpunished, is here to threaten with a reckoning, swearing, beatings, etc. I stayed decent. You must understand that we are peasants who love the army, unlike my fellow farmer, he didn't like it very much. When the state was to serve in 1978, when I was in Croatia's Karlovac, he skillfully avoided military service. When the state was to serve, the weapons were to be borrowed, while I was under arms in Croatia's Karlovac, he was minus one negative, not for the military. Later, when he began to serve the state, when he was to serve the army, he said goodbye to the weapons. He was young, but he thought he was Hemingway. When he was supposed to serve, he didn't want to, but when he started to serve the state, then in 1999, of course, he'd disprove it, I have the right to say, I don't answer for the words spoken here, I know that the Ministry may have denied me, but this is true, he's involved in the arms smuggling worth a million and a half marks, which he personally took to Dimitrovgrad for the purchase of nuclear ammunition during NATO's aggression pact. We didn't get any ammo, and the money was gone, most likely my fellow farmer got away with it. Here's who wants to take a look. I've got everything. In order not to be denied, I have all the numbers and all the SNA reports, OB sector reports, etc. since 1999. I don't think I'm responsible for the words I said, since I believe this is part of some military secret. When it was over, I said goodbye to the weapons, and then he said, "Give me the weapons." He got permission to wear it. This can't be explained by doctors or otters. How does someone transform themselves so quickly from good-bye to arms smuggling, until you give me the guns? This is already happening when the state started to serve itself. Ladies and gentlemen, don't appreciate us for my fellow farmer...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48816	MPs warn me and say this has nothing to do with the agenda. I understood that you were pulling a parallel between one and the other understanding of responsibility and decency. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48817	I'm also talking about decency and military issues, mutually. So it's certainly very military, and I have to say that we farmers have been very happy to serve the military and the state. We avoided serving the state, but we gladly served it for centuries. In my head still echoes the plunger steps of that tired Serbian army, that tired Serbian peasant army that goes through the Curse, not wanting to capitulate. In the heads of the peasants who have not fled the army still echoes that tired butt of the steps of the Serb army that goes through the frozen land, through the snows, marshes so as not to capitulate. It's the Serbian army. Still in my head, in the head of all the peasants, not those of the Sparrow's Pashalu, they have nothing to do with it, echoing the tumult of military cocktails, the French, on the feet of Serbian peasants, the tut that was faster than the French cavalry, the tumult of freedom that wanted to free his plum, his field, his country, and to freely raise his flag. That army belonged to me. It's our military ideals, it's a tumultuous freedom that's increasingly clear in Serbia, but they've had other tuts, tuts across Fruska up there. What's that for them? It was worth taking over the Frusch Mountain, and they managed aggressively to enter the Virgin Islands, so my fellow farmer's winery says... . Virgin Islands, all with apostolics. What a sneaker run. One of them is for the tumult of freedom, the other one is the tumult of shame. And with that fight, our money's gone, too, so that's not funny. Also, the roads lead to smuggling against the state authorities, so it disappears, at the “Presa” company led by my fellow farmer, 130, untraceable of course, 138,000 bottles of wine, but the imported one, the one to compete with our wine, not the one he produced. He didn't even produce for honor. He was just competing with our wine. The value of 138,000 bottles of wine was worth 89m dinars at the time, about 900,000 euros. I have all the records from that company, which say that the former director of the winemaker, my fellow farmer, untraceablely carried 138,000 bottles of wine. Now, that's the lukewarm freedom they used to use. We're through the Curse, they're over the Virgin Islands on the Frusch Mountain, a strange path. Mr. Gasic, it was Sunday, 6:12, it was Sunday, my colleagues remember, it was Sunday. We who work Sundays know it was Sundays, we who work Sundays, although it is not by God's orders. Sometimes because of the storms that we're on both the plow and the pole, we know we shouldn't work on Sundays, but we have to work because others haven't worked. We know it was Sunday, the mistake was Sunday. You've never worked on Sundays. You didn't work on Saturdays, you don't work on working days. That duchess of yours, when you want to look for him, don't go to executive council and banishment, you should go to the gym, to Brione, there you can find him. It's been a week. We who served the army know it, we who did not flee from their armies, but other armies fled before us, we know it was Sunday. They don't know anything, they only know how to spend their time in cafes, they only know how to deliver insults, they don't know how to do anything else. We didn't get the state, we got the state without the state. And Mr. Gasic, gentlemen of the Ministers, we have a strange way ahead of us to get Serbia out of the crisis. We didn't get the state. There are sayings – when you get lemon, if you're smart, you make lemonade. They kick lemons, take the stone and throw us at them. Mr. Gasic, trust that message, at this point, life has given you lemons, but if you are smart, resilient, you will make lemonade and I firmly believe it. Also, there is the saying of Dostoyev (Dostoyev). If you go down the road and you stand on every dog that barks at you, you throw stones, you will never reach the goal. No stopping. No matter how many whistles in the election they'll whistle. I firmly believe that the election will be overjoyed. Our people know that they appreciate work and that they don't like to be punished. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, we've won a state without a state, a country that we can get out of trouble. The glory of these fellow MPs, with my little help and your minister, and it's our turn to get the country out of the trouble they've pushed her into. I'll, with that in mind, quote, I'll tell a great man about me. Twelve years this country is ruled by the worst, in Vojvodina 15, I'll add. Twelve years of this country is a disgrace and shame, 12 years we are ashamed to be citizens of this country, especially us in Vojvodina. We have no reason. When we put them away completely, we'll be great again, we'll be proud again, we just need a little bit. They are one mechanical obstacle, especially to us in Vojvodina, on our way. Together we'll get out of that way. They are no longer power for us. They're one gang of usurper who still doesn't know they've been replaced. This was a quote. They are gentlemen, you by the television, they have wiped you off the list of people who don't deserve to live a life, that you don't deserve to live a man's life. They erased you, erased your salaries, your job, your bread. Here comes the election, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens, peasants, workers, time not with rubber, but with a pen in the elections to erase them too. Delete them. Delete them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48818	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48819	Article 107 of the previous speaker made a series of lies about my personal life. Information that isn't information. It's pure lies. You let him do it, and that hurt article 107. Because of the public, and not because of the predecessors, in 1978, I was recruited completely normal, of course, like everyone else. Then, in 1983, I signed up for military service myself and was recruited, and they can all check on the gentleman in uniforms, in the Guard. I was supposed to go to January 1984. In November 1983, I had a serious accident, and I was treated for a year and a half. And fired with diagnosis, and I guess there's a doctor here called "osteomelitis". Then you guys laughing, you Nis doctors who should know that in particular, which is why you don't normally go to the army anywhere in the world or here. As far as my business is concerned, it's an absolute lie to a lie. None of that is true. If any of this is true, it's illegal. Then I'd like the former best law school student, now the Prime Minister, to say nicely what's right about it. There's the Minister of the Interior, and there's probably the Minister of Justice, so let's see what kind of crime I've been doing with any of my behavior, in any job I've been doing as a private since 1986 or as a politician since 1992. I'd like to be told either now or ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48820	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48821	I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48822	Please, just a little bit, first of all, I'm guessing you don't want an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48823	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48824	That's what I thought. I'll give it for the others. He didn't mention you anywhere. I'm sorry you guys recognized each other...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48825	If you're trying to be naive, it's really pointless. It's clear to all of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48826	That it's you. I thank you then, I'm sorry I didn't react. Thank you for helping me, I've held back. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48827	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, dear guests, I will be very brief. I'm advertising an article. 103 and 104. I'm not asking you to vote on it. I appreciate Mrs. Chairman being tolerated. It's a mixed replica with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The MPs have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure but do not have the right to abuse it. But I appreciate the permissiveness of the Madam Chairman, because many things have become clear. I wasn't talking about diagnosis, but if you were talking about it, it'd be running away from the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48828	Thank you. The Prime Minister wanted to report after Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48829	Only two words that speak about what we want Serbia to do. You're just kind of right, Mr. Risticevic, from my point of view, of course, I don't think you're quite right when you talk about pressures coming from different media and about who's a politician, who's a journalist, etc. In fact, journalists have the right to have their own political stance. And it's not a problem for some people to look forward to saying "Wolf Puller" or "Gasic scum," it's okay. I don't think that's supposed to come across any special convictions. It's just that I think that's what I need to get, that people need to see it, that it's just to be clear then that it's not about wanting someone to be objectively informed, it's about expressing that political court and that's okay. You have this right all over the world, in England you have the day after the election -- half the newspapers are white, they're very happy that Cameron won, half comes out with the black cover. It is not disputed, but everyone there knows who the “Gardian ” is written of “The Times, ” written by“ Daily Mirror, ” for which everyone else writes. So, they don't even try to say they don't have their own political stance, as is the case with us, and they have it more clearly than they do in those Western democracies. I think we should show, and I don't catch myself very often, always a lot more respect for the press, for these people, whether it's good for us or not. So, I know I didn't make a mistake once, because I came from it, Marianne, that I know what political intentions are and what political desires are of one of these people, and then I entered that kind of political debate needlessly. The man is, every one of us is ordinary and has his emotions, but what can't happen is that it goes beyond the limits of decency, and we can't answer it in the same dictionary when they tell us – to the scum, the faggot, the Gasic scum, whatever they say, it doesn't matter. So we can't say the same words and we have to show that we're different. No matter how many times we've made mistakes, today's cabinet session is exactly an opportunity to show what it is and how different and decent Serbia is in the future. Today, some MPs are already speaking – ask the prime minister if anyone should get the word or not. I never once turned to Maja Gojkovic. She is my party colleague, whom I highly respect, very resourceful. She's a good, serious lawyer, she's a woman who does her job well and she has her duties and duties, as I have my duties and my duties. (Zoran Zivkovic: Throws.) I'm sorry to interrupt. Thank you for letting me continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48830	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48831	So much for being polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48832	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48833	But, yeah, she's right... It's good for people in Serbia to hear this. I asked them to stop talking and tossing. You heard the way, and then the man who was looking for the word said that I was throwing it to him. You all saw what I said. You're right, when the one who talks and uses the microphone is probably throwing it away, because you're the center of the world, so no one can stop it. Once again, I apologize for interrupting your very important conversation for a second, and thank you for letting me continue. We will continue, Mr. Zivkovic, precisely because of your behavior and after these choices and after a lot of other things, and I am not sure that citizens will ever want such a policy of the past, and the policy of the past is that you tell me who should be arrested or not. It's a job for the D.A.'s office. It's a job for the police. I don't need to give any statements about this, and that's why I'm not able to answer your questions positively or negatively – whether there's something or not. Whether or not there is something, the answer is always given by the competent state authorities. So in that case, and in any case, the prosecution, the police, the courts will give their answer. That's how the rule of law works. It should, and I'm sure it'll work even better in the future, but in the past, we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48834	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. The conditions are not met. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: Directly mentioned me. Mr. Zivkovic, I hear very well. Mr. Zivkovic, the Prime Minister has used your last name, not in a negative context. Unlike the fact that you have been throwing and insulting all along, Mr. Zivkovic, and there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that someone should have the right to replicate if they misappropriately throws and insults, so that the conditions for replication have not been met, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48835	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, today, before us, the MPs, the request for the discharge of the military minister, the request for the discharge of the minister who is my personal friend and longtime associate, and although in the afternoon work, Mrs. Dubravka Filipovski explained the reasons why my party New Serbia would be reluctant to support this request from the Prime Minister for discharge, but I simply could not report today on the matter and not say a few things about Mr. Gasic, and even about this one today. First, Mr. Gasic was a good and successful businessman and mayor, i.e. the president of the Kruševac municipality and excellent minister of the Republika Srpska Army. What I want to underline at the very beginning of my debate is one topic that, somehow, all day long like this, I have to say, and the grounding in this National Assembly, which is unfortunately this accident and the fall of helicopters. Dear People's MPs and Prime Minister, I was one of the last to see that baby from Novi Pazar, and I saw those people who followed her in that sanity, because that day I was at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture in Novi Pazar, and I was returning from Novi Pazar to Topoli. What I particularly want to point out is that there was a huge dive that took place in Bogotak Banja in front of the Kings, and my vehicle was right in front of that sanity. I am only saying this because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I am saying for the sake of the Serbian public, that it is known that I, and I believe any of the MPs, would have been at the place of Minister Gasic and had received a call and a request to raise a helicopter and to transport that baby to Belgrade, so that each of us would have done so. I still have to point out, because somehow from this debate that was in the last hours, it's like it could've been done in a car, like it didn't have to be picked up by a helicopter and unfortunately what happened later, which is that seven people got killed. Once again, I, I believe, and any of the MPs from this House, would do the same. The second topic I would especially like to mention at today's debate is the results that Minister Gasic achieved in his ministry, and these results are primarily seen in something my distinguished colleague, Mrs Obradovic, mentioned, which is exports, and these are the results of Serbia's dedicated industry, where exports have already reached about $750 billion, and I believe that by the end of the term, Mr Gasic was two more years to reach a billion-euro figure. During this debate, Mr. Prime Minister, I received an e-mail from the worker "Peter Drapsina" from Mladenovac, whose blacksmithy was once working for the dedicated industry, i.e. for the SDPR. Unfortunately, this is one factory that is also the victim of this unfortunate privatisation and this transition, and we all know who brought the Privatisation Act. But I have to point out that these people are expecting help, too. The SDPR has already hired parts of the factory, workers and in general the whole environment in this central part of Šumadija expect help from the new minister who will perform the duty, Vujovic, and above all from the entire government, to help people and to expand the performance of the dedicated industry, to get these people a job and to get these people employed. What is also important, because of a little time at the very end, I must point out, and that is a huge haranga that has risen against Minister Gasic. I had the privilege of hearing from Mr. Gasic later that day and realizing that he understood, to apologize. That's what we heard from our dear ladies, a colleague here at the National Assembly. But apparently it wasn't enough that it took one huge media pressure, one haranga. I honestly believe it is connected to a lot of factors, and one of them that I particularly want to point out is Serbia's military neutrality above all. It is something where Minister Gasic insisted, and these are joint military exercises with Russia. It's something that hasn't been right for many. We have, unfortunately, heard that in the previous days in the European Parliament, and that is precisely from those MPs who are not Serbian friends. It is something that I also pray on behalf of my New Serbia party, that both this government and future governments persist, which is that we do not forget our eternal friends, to persist in military neutrality. I want to finish this address first and first of all to wish Mr. Gasic good luck. There'll be an opportunity to see you again very soon. Mr. Gasic will be in some new public functions in a few years. I am truly looking forward to this cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48836	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is issued by MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48837	I thank you, Mr. Becic. It is not, of course, the speech of a respected colleague, Mr Jovanovic, but it is about the present MP, the vice-president of the Democratic Party, who is having so much fun, and here from the Assembly Hall he directs a tweet, not one, but a series of tweets that humiliates the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by comparing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with the reality program. I can even forgive him, but what I can't forgive is what he wrote in that tweet. Comparing and writing – Maja about honesty, referring to the president of the National Assembly of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. I think it's scandalous and primitive when one MP, one man, if we know there's one saying in our people - who about... And I don't want to go on with that saying. If at one such session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we talk about jurisdiction, where we talk about a normal, decent, orderly Serbia, it wasn't enough that he hurt other colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, but he hurt and insulted the president of the National Assembly, comparing it with who, I think he deserves one conviction. I think the least we can expect from him is a simple apology. But if it doesn't happen, and I know it won't happen, it's good that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see two faces. The person responsible, decent, normal Serbia we want to build and which we are building with this session today, compared to the one Serbia that compares and insults women in the most primitive and worst way, as the DS Vice President is doing now and at this time while this session is being held.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48838	I thank you, Mr. Granny. It is difficult for me as chairman that I cannot prevent the conduct of the MPs and thus, as Mr. Zivkovic had just added to the president of the National Assembly the same word, the word - thief. It's as difficult as the chairman. I will now, by Article 112, give a ten-minute break. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue to work and I hope, for the sake of Serbian citizens, that something like this will never happen again, that impoliteness in this way and treating colleagues will never happen again. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stefana Miladanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48840	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I believe that a member of 107 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The gravest violation of the National Assembly's dignity by the opposition's representatives - to bring the National Assembly down to the reality level is a shameless attitude and I believe that, at the very least, a colleague who insulted not only the MPs, but also the MPs should apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48841	Thank you, Mrs. Miladanovic. Many times personally at the National Assembly session, I asked some MPs if they needed to insult their colleagues to do so according to the chairman but not to insult their colleagues. I'm sorry they didn't have the courage to accept it and the dignity to treat their colleagues that way. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (No) Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go, Mrs. Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48842	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Vucicu, our authorised representative, Mr. Kotric, has delivered the position of SPO and I will repeat it - that we support your proposal to resolve Mr. Gasic, as we have so far all your proposals and supported, but we believe that Mr. Gasic has been doing an excellent job in the ministry, which tells us to present the results, but we are aware that you want to make a big difference between this policy and those previous policies that were being conducted, and so also when it comes to your closest associates. When it comes to the results of the government, in which Mr. Gasic was also minister, I must make special impressions with your recent statement, which contains all the determination, commitment, both your and the summation of the wishes and aspirations of Serbian citizens for a safer and more beautiful Serbia, both for their children and for future generations, Serbia that we want to leave behind for them, and it is – we finally know where we are going and where we are going to go, that is a map of Serbia for Europe, there will be no delays. And where are we going? Well, it's exactly the path that leads to EU membership through Serbia's international credibility, because Serbia today has friends both in the east and in the west, as well as in all parts of the world, and through building trust in the institutions of the state, by separating the authorities from the tycoon. Today, it can't be said that tycoons have their own country, because they can no longer edit it as they wish and according to their intent. The serious fight against organised crime and corruption, the fight for reform, the development of the private sector, which is basically every modern economy, the consolidation of our budget, which is also a condition for new jobs, as well as for the growth of living standards, investment in education, health, culture, infrastructure, in one word, building a decent, tolerated and successful society. That's exactly the way we're going, and where do we want to go? Well, in Serbia with results, in Serbia that will be a safe country for our children, for ourselves, for future generations, a country of independent institutions, untapped police and an effective judiciary. It is true that this time it will be difficult, you said, because we are facing really difficult challenges and it is important and we need to correct the mistakes made by previous governments and show the people determination and courage and commitment in implementing these painful but necessary reforms. The determination, you showed courage and courage because over the past years and decades the public of Serbia was also familiar with many promises, but the ultimate effect was not something visible. In the end, I just want to point out once again that we finally know where we're going and where we're going to go. It's Serbia's ticket to Europe, there won't be any delays. It's a path that SPO supports and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48843	Thank you, Mrs. Kosoric. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a MP, Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48844	I thank you, Mr. Becic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(1) This, of course, does not concern the presentation of the distinguished colleague Kosorić, but refers to what we just heard and experienced, the most frightening, most likely, the most primitive demeaning of Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, but thus the most likely, most primitive and scariest insult of all women in Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party, due primarily to Ms Gojkovic's respect for the honourable folk MPs from all parliamentary groups and also the SNS parliamentary group, does not want to take part in the debate and dialogue with such people as DS Vice-President Mr Sutanovac, who, not for the first time, and I believe that there will be no last time, also addresses the presidents of the Assembly and other MPs and members of the SNS, and thus all women in the Republic of Serbia. I expect no apology, but what is least I can expect - one general condemnation of such people who will say anything just to hurt each other and belittle them. That's not the Serbia we want to build. The Serbia we want to build is a decent, normal, orderly, Republic of Serbia-friendly, normal citizens. Furthermore, in today's debate, we do not want to share the same space, the same hall and arguments with people who are willing to insult women in Serbia. That is why the SNS and the parliamentary group give up the discussion further, but also the presence in the same hall as DS Vice President Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48845	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm sorry, but I understand the reasons why SNS MPs want no longer to participate in any further discussion. I respect that view, and I can only conclude that all SNS MPs have withdrawn their application from the list of speakers. Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević. Here you go, Mr. Kruževic. I'm sorry, Mr. Kruzhevic, I didn't see the Prime Minister come in. The Prime Minister has an advantage in the debate. Here you go, Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukitch. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48846	I thank you, Your Honor. This is a bit of an awkward situation right now, but I think it was logical to even get an apology for those words, but since it wasn't there, what do we do? Anyway, I just want to tell the citizens of Serbia, and everyone in the room that as Prime Minister, I have to stay in this room, so I'd like to go out of the room with my friends, but I simply can't do it in accordance with the law, or in accordance with the responsibilities I have, and it's my job to stay in this room that as long as it's mandatory to participate in the debate. I just hope that people in Serbia are today and that they have had the opportunity to see what Serbia should or should not look like in the future. In any case, I am asking only all the MPs of the people, as I am telling myself and always all the ministers, that something similar will not happen to us in further work, and in... I hope neither Maya nor anyone else will have to go through these statements and these kind of words that go into the future. Thank you again. So, I just wanted to explain the reasons for my staying in the O.R., nothing more. Thank you. I apologize to you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48847	Thank you, Mr. President. I find it as difficult as the chairman, since that tweet was not alone, there is a series of tweets where Mr. Sutanovac insults the National Assembly, the MPs, and I find it difficult that I, as chairman at this point, can't stop it. I apologize to all the MPs for experiencing this. Now, I would like to give the word to the gentleman, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Djordje Milicevic, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48848	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Article 107(1) First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group that, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, we fully agree with you. People from the debate so far have seen what we want for Serbia. When I say - we, I mean representatives of the ruling coalition. The answer to haughtiness is decency and responsibility. The most decent and responsible thing that MPs and MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia can do at the moment is join our coalition partners from the Serbian Progressive Party with whom we share responsibility, we share values when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we share the same values when it comes to the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With all due respect, first of all to you, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, we will join our colleagues from the SNS and we will give up and we will not participate in any further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48849	I thank you, Mr. Milicevic. To this I can only repeat, that it is terribly difficult for me and that I am ashamed that I did not have the opportunity to protect the National Assembly, the MPs, because of these tweets that insult dignity and the National Assembly and the MPs. Here you go, sir, Peter Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48850	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will also, in accordance with Article 107, because there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, leave the work of this parliament. We'll get back together with our coalition partners. We no longer want to participate in this work and in this discussion and in trying to degrade the highest officials of this country. I don't think that's good to hear from this assembly. This is not good because of Europe, which we are seeking, it is not good because of everything this government and this Assembly has done so far to suit Serbia, to be a country in which all young people will want to live and what will be the example of other countries in the Balkan Peninsula and beyond how to work in one country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48851	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. I understand when there are no arguments, but that insult is used, that by insulting the National Assembly and the dignity of the National Assembly and insulting their colleagues that they are the only arguments they have, I cannot understand. So I can only accept your reasons for leaving the Great Hall of the National Assembly. The word has been made by the People's MP Dr Milorad Mijatovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Miatovic. Mr. Sutanovac, at least be a little polite after all you've done and let your colleagues who have the advantage come forward before you speak at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At least be a little polite, Mr. Sutanova, please. If you need to continue to insult, to throw, to yell, I have told you many times to do so to me, but not to your colleagues in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If that is your need to meet it in this way according to the chairman, respect your colleagues. Please, Mr. Mijatovic, I apologize for the way Mr. Sutanovac wants to deny your right to report to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48852	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, SDPS, as a party that is part of a coalition that shares values in the coalition, which we highlighted, which I said in my discussion, respect, morality, truth, that's what the SDPS does, above all, respect. Since it wasn't in this debate today, we're joining our coalition partners and we're leaving the O.R. I must stress that we are doing this out of respect, because the word respect, morale, must dominate this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48853	Thank you, Mr. Miatovic. I repeat once again that it is extremely difficult for me to be offended in this day, in this way, by Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, who is being insulted by the MPs and by the humiliation of this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48854	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48855	Here you go, Mr. Arsenovic. You have the right to speak. You've reached out before anyone else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48856	Since I'm also on the list for hearing on the Secretary of Defense's shift, and since I have the feeling that more of my participation in this further debate is losing meaning. I intended, on the contrary, to suggest and appeal to tolerance, to understand, to respect human values. However, all I would now say is that I think it makes no sense and that is why both I and my colleague Momo Colakovic will give up the discussion and in this sense join the coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48857	I thank Mr. Arsenovic. I am sorry that, in the absence of argument, the debate was left out of this room, so she moved to Twitter where some MPs thus insulted their colleagues and the president of the National Assembly and the National Assembly. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48858	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor, I don't know if I should say the former defence minister, we're very grateful that you're here today. I want to use 30 seconds to say what's on my heart. Of course, NS MPs will not participate in further work because of the arguments, I would not like to repeat what previous colleagues have given. So, this debate requires a minimum of dignity and respect for people, and in this case we see first of all one woman. I must point out, Mr. Prime Minister, you may not like this, very much respecting the Secretary of Defense, whether we should say ex or in any future position, because by chance, by all accounts, I know that he was a very good defence minister. You cut how you cut it. Introduce new principles, maintain a word and I know that it is particularly difficult for you, because we ourselves are in a party and we are all party and we know what they mean both private and human relations, but you have shown that at this point Serbia is above all else, even above party friendships and respect. We NS MPs came today with confidence, with bitter taste in our mouths that we would vote for one man not to be a minister, who we otherwise think was a very good minister, perhaps the best, I apologize to you, Mr. President, you have been a defence minister for the past few years. We came here to listen to the arguments of colleagues from both the ruling coalition and fellow opposition and to learn something together, that what was there was. Mr. Prime Minister, in my humble opinion, has introduced a principle that, I think, in a long time, no matter who's in power, in terms of what's laughing and what's not laughing and what can and what can't be. At our principled position, both New Serbia's MPs and the ruling coalition are responsible for the insults and for the dignity this parliament and the home should have, we are not able, or we will not continue to work on such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48859	Thank you, Mr. Markicevic. Today, preparing for this session, I thought we would have a better Serbia, a democratic debate and an argument of arguments and opinions here. We had only what the MPs had, some MPs of the opposition through Twitter showed how much they respected their colleagues, how much they respected this high house and how much they respected the president of the National Assembly. I apologize once again to all the MPs for having experienced this today. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48860	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, we will not give up the discussion. We believe that we have worked for two months, waited, also offended by the behaviour of Minister Gasic, who eventually led to today's debate, an insult he gave to one journalist, one woman, and indirectly all the journalists and all the women in Serbia, and we have listened and talked about it many times today. Today, this attempt to distract attention from what is the topic, which is one, according to the prime minister, a new policy, a policy of accepting responsibility and a policy of decency. I believe that MPs of my parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS, ZS, in these past two years are fully in line with this policy, that we have not violated it and we want to be here today, to say what we think badly about the work of Minister Gasic and the work of the entire government. We don't want this farce, which is now the majority's meeting, to be converted, to agree to that. We will participate in the work, in the discussion until the end, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to vote on the confidence of Minister Gasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48861	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Before I ask you if you want the Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure, I highly appreciate you and I expected you to at least try to condemn your fellow MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in this exhibition. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. ) The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48862	I'd just like to talk, because if someone doesn't think if I'm the only one today or at this point who dares you as many as 16 or 17 in total to answer, I'll be the only one left, and I have no problem showing that the arguments are on this side. So, I don't know how many of you and what you've been waiting for. I repeat once again, we have waited for you for more than a decade for one such case to be done and for one case to show that you can take a different and large step forward. You haven't done it in over a decade, and then the people said theirs. As for the insults and the farces and hypocrisy and everything else, that's what your behavior says every time. Once you don't get a word in the Rules of Procedure, you go outside and hold a press conference. Today, people went out because someone said, “Who, Maya, about honesty? ” (Dear Shutanovac, from the scene: not true.) ) So these are scary things, not to say that you have not responded to many other frightening things that have been said here the way we have reacted. Whatever we asked them, they could never say "I'm sorry" or "we're guilty" or "there'll be responsibilities with us." As far as we're concerned, we're here to do this. All MPs will return to the vote. They have the right to express their position. This is purely legitimate and legal. I'd do it myself, but I don't have the right to do it. I don't have a right, it's my duty to represent a proposal that I signed myself, and that's why I'm here under the obligation to stay and answer. Otherwise, to tell you the truth, such sentences and such behavior that cause disquietment and entertainment in the MPs, and not concern and bad mood, it seems to me that it speaks much more about those who say them, than about those against whom such words are spoken. So, I don't have a problem, and that's why we're here. You go on, you're saying everything you imagined. I think it's good for people to hear everything you've imagined, because you're going to get an answer from only one man, not hundreds, and I don't know how many people who have been willing to participate in the debate today, but also from that one is something good. You have your rights, democracy is the form of a political regime that we all support in the spirit, and we will always fight for the right to you to express everything that you have done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure here in the National Assembly. So, go ahead, and we'll keep answering. Don't be mad at those who want to show that they're people and they want to show their little protest, nothing more than that. This is not why those who have spoken such words end up at either the media stake or in court or anything else, but it is not bad for people to have the right to express their opinion in a legitimate and legal way, even by leaving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Nothing more normal, nothing more reasonable, nothing more polite than that. As no one has ever defended you, do not defend anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48863	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48864	Mr. Chairman, Article 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Members of the SPO will no longer participate in this work. I am the third term MP, the second time I report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, although there have been a million reasons for reporting and not only me, but my group of MPs have never personally offended anyone. Whether we agree or not, in politics, we were merely offering solutions, persuasion that we were doing the best thing as MPs. I didn't want to talk today for two reasons. I consider Batu Gasic one of the best ministers, surely the best defence minister since 1945. That's number one. Number two, Bata Gasic, as well as the prime minister, is a good friend to me, but if the government, the prime minister, and Gasic himself, have honored the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the entire Serbian public, then everyone should do so. It's not enough to say that we're just for Europe, you have to act like one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48865	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48866	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, I want to thank you for letting you know that the MPs of the SNS will return to vote, because we were just wondering if they would participate in the vote, and since we have received an answer from the directors of this play, I thank you for your notice. I expected today to win a decent and modern Serbia, Serbia that promotes gender equality, over Serbia that promotes the kneeling of women, whether it's a journalist or not, and here all day long we've been listening to mourners, pitys, understanding, justifications, and it's only not said that it was a lapus. Mr. Gasic, in my opinion, only acted in accordance with his life principles, character, temperament and education. Now, chronologically, it took you two months to send a request for a minister's shift, and I remind you, or there's no need to remind you, you know it well, because you were racing to make this government you're running the fastest-formed government for the first time in Serbia's history. It only took you six weeks since the parliamentary elections to form an entire government with 18 ministers. You can't find just one minister for two months now. So all of your statistics and your laurels, which you picked up as the fastest-formed government, simply falls into the water. But since you cannot find a minister, I ask you – what are the criteria for selecting a minister? We're here from you about Mr. Gasic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48867	Mr. Senic, I'd like to ask you to come back on the subject. We're talking about a minister's resolution here, not a new minister's election. I went over it to insult Mr. Gasic, but please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48868	I'm insulting?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48869	You just insulted Mr. Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48870	What did I say?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48871	Okay. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48872	So we heard that Mr. Gasic, I quote what the prime minister said, said that his friend, an excellent associate, is a good and valuable man. Why didn't you break up with the Prime Minister when he said that? So, please, don't bother me. With all due respect to you, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister, formerly, leaving or future, these are not enough recommendations to be a defence minister. I am not an expert in the field of military and defence, but I have therefore asked people who are expert in this area - what reference did Mr. Gasic make to the defence minister? And none of them knew how to answer me. Only one, he probably told me in a joke, and now I quote: “He probably glued the tiles or painted the garrison in Kruševec, I don’t know exactly, ask Vukic. “ So of all the things you said, I have concluded that the only criterion for being a defense minister is being one of your best friends or one of your best friends. And let me tell you right now, under that criterion, you certainly won't be able to find a new defence minister, because you've placed all your best friends and best friends in ministerial posts and executive functions. So, they're gone, probably. Let me go back. I don't blame Mr. Gasic at all for being forced to participate in this farce today. For me, Mr. Vukic, you are the only and only culprit, not because you have proposed your friend at all, without any competence for that place, but because he has not been removed before he told the minister that he loves it when she kneels, or easily kneels, a journalist. So when the helicopter fell, I don't know why there was any excuse not to have the minister removed? You are instructed that in Russia there is 31 reasons for the defence minister to be removed, that in America it was 24 reasons, etc., but I remind you that in Russia and America there are no helicopters falling because a media spectacle is being staged. By the way, there is no excuse why Mr. Gasic has not been removed before. Not to remind you that he refused to provide information about an incident involving the military police and your brother, the Protector of the Citizens, etc. All in all, I wish to you as soon as possible, provided your directing succeeds and your MPs return to parliament and vote your proposal, i.e. You've adopted your proposal to find the Secretary of Defense as soon as possible. And I suggest that this time it can be a woman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48873	Thank you. The MPs will come and vote when the day of the vote is scheduled. They don't have to go back to this session, Mr. Senic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48874	I'm glad that at least quietly you tried to make the worst possible and insults and untrues, but we're going to analyze everyone. That about the director and the show, the director was always your party president, I'll remind you, the one who didn't allow any media to announce that he resigned but the order to shorten his mandate arrived. It's the same one that when you mention my brother, the beaten up, and not that he beat someone up, you forget to say that you've had nine times a beating of cops and armies because of the weird relationships your president's been making in different places. They only fought nine times, with all the official official notes. But, you know, somewhere shame and shame don't live. I can't help you or anyone else. You're talking about direction. It must be directed that I insult Maja Gojkovic, or someone else. Instead of showing some kind of difference and showing that you understand that kind of political lesson that we all must have learned what can and cannot, no, everything that you are allowed to do, the other is not, and everything else is not allowed, you are. You're talking about pity and grief, no pity or grief here today. It was a finding that Bata Gasic was a good minister, that he worked well and had to leave the post. He didn't complain to anyone in any way because nothing happened to him. The man is alive and well. There's no problem with his work. What he learned from this will depend on his future. No matter what it was in our party, he wasn't, he was doing some other job, anything, it's always up to him, his diligence, no one else. You say - the only character for selecting a minister is that he is my friend, since all the godfathers are set up. How are you not ashamed and ashamed? Well, you're the best man you've ever appointed minister of defense. Bata Gasic is not my best man. Your president has appointed the godfather as minister of defense. Here's the best man. You're just forgetting who your best man is. I guess you're starting to believe your own lies and the fiction of the tabloid press, and then you don't know what you're going to do, but you're going to insult yourself, but by the way, and I told him, so I'm not going to get an answer. You'll get every answer. Do you know why you'll get the answer? Because I'm not afraid of you at all. I'm not afraid of anything you can say, because my conscience is clear. I work honestly from morning to night, every day. I didn't steal a dime. I have no godmothers in business, no tycoons in business, no interest in anything, absolutely nothing. I live normally and nothing better than how I lived, unlike you, but we'll do it another time. What two months' notice for a shift, well, you're right, I needed it, it's not two, it's a little less. But you always like to add, as you talk about four years, etc., as you reduce those 16 years in power, so you always like to add here. So, it's true, I needed a lot of time, because I didn't plan what Bata Gasic did, because there's no directing with us like you, because we don't have a script like you, because it's our life that creates circumstances, not what brings you one or two points less or more. One more thing, as you can see, I didn't have a spare variant, although many wrote about Bata Gasic being replaced, you can see that I didn't have a spare variant. They are now writing on the paper -- Serbia's representative to NATO. He won't. They say -- will be the director of "Mtela" in Serbia. He won't. Just let them stop making up all those who make up every day. Stop dealing with the Chapraz-divines, you're doing serious business and serious politics. Stop dealing with the directings and scenarios you've imagined in your head, instead of dealing with facts. You say, he acted according to character and discipline, and with what character and discipline you came forward when you talk about the gendarmes and the Cobras, and you know for yourself why and how the gendarmes and the Cobras fought in your time, not because someone was attacked... What's your time? You're right. Then you were the board president here, the president is the same, if I'm not mistaken, and then now, Boris Tadic, in his time. Yes, in his day the gendarmes and the Cobras fought nine times, nine official notes about it. (Alexander Senic, from the scene: I didn't see it. You didn't see it, so it's good. This is where you saw my brother getting beat up. If he hadn't been beaten up, he'd probably be a killer or I don't know what he is, lucky we could see it. The reasons why they fought, I'm ashamed to tell you. Believe me, I'm ashamed to tell you. Shame on me, Serbian citizens. He'll never show up anywhere. I'm ashamed to tell you why the members of our security forces fought. I'm terribly embarrassed. You'd better watch... (Alexander Senic, from the place: What? ) You don't have to throw me away, I'll finish my words, how and in what way to build decent Serbia, but to transfer to others what you would first to yourself in a hundred times larger and harder volume you could transfer. What are those references? Did he stick the tiles in the garrison? I didn't know he was putting tile in the garrison, but it's not bad. You didn't stick any tiles in the garrison or anywhere else. Nice if it was glued, but Bata Gasic, meanwhile, managed to glue the tiles into many garrisons, to bring the army back to many cities. Bata Gasic managed to glue those tiles into Krusik too, soon the last tile will stick to the Uzics, or someone else to continue what he started, and in many other places in Serbia. That's a big difference. I don't know what's wrong with that when some pretty tile, good and honorable occupation. Someone's doing their job fair and square. I don't see what the references are to whether there were others who were becoming defence ministers. What were they better at? In what? At the age of finishing school? By what? By what criteria? Or what we're allowed to do, others aren't. References and reasons why Mr Gasic was elected were shown to be correct. What wasn't good was his reaction, which is why he's paying a high price today. A price none of you were willing to pay ever. A price you weren't ready to pay today, with a small one, you weren't ready to pay. Not to mention the resignations. The price that you were about to be disgusted with what Bata Gasic said, and you laughed at everything that was much worse and much scarier than what Bata Gasic said, and you were told by the vice presidents of your current party, or yesterday's party, and you didn't have any problem with it. You're talking about helicopters. Just recently, a rescue child was shot down by a five-dead helicopter in Slovakia. They were saving the kid. No one asked them to resign the minister. Slovakia or Kazakhstan. I'll check it out, and I'll tell you by the end of the session. Five dead along with the baby, so there was no scandal. You've been making an emergency scandal. You don't know what else to do, because you're living off that director and those imaginary scenarios. You don't know what else to say or what to say. That's where they wanted to get their picture taken, and the press was waiting for them at the airport. What reporters? There's no press. Do you have a reporter's name? Well, you don't have it, of course, because no reporter was waiting at the airport. All the fiction of fiction arrives, as well as for the display at the water polo game, as well as for what I was in Dubai, as you said. I was two years ago for half a day, when I represented "Belgrade on Water", not so much, three hours ago, but not this year and not New Year's Eve. Lies come in, lies catch up to each other, and who cares, we'll get on with it. What we did about Bata Gasic, no matter how hard it was for me, which is hard for me, because it is my friend, and I'm not ashamed of it, and that's why we have to work here today and not be comfortable and it's not easy for us. I hope he stays. He did a terrible thing, an unforgivable thing, and that's why he pays that price. This unforgivable thing is unforgivable only for us and only for Bata Gasic, for me and for the government he runs, and for you it is very forgiving when it comes to your people. She's just unforgivable when they're ours. It speaks of political arbitration and does not speak of any political principle. It's the thing people in Serbia certainly see. In the end, I love that policy "we hate Vukic". It's the best policy... (Alexander Senic, from the scene: I didn't say that.) I didn't say you said that. No, I don't think that policy is being read in what someone's going to yell at. That's what every man can feel, see and recognize. I think it's an ideal policy, because this policy leaves us in the best possible way to show how much we love Serbia, how much we don't hate anyone, and how much we're able to change first, and then try to influence others to make our country look different. Tolstoy said a long time ago that shame and shame remain. I feel proud that I am the Prime Minister responsible for carrying out his duty, which the government at a difficult time, in one of the most difficult times, has made a lot of difficult and unpopular measures and decisions, but what slowly and surely the country has begun to draw out of the crisis. In that line of work, each of you, if someone didn't think I was talking about coalitions, on the contrary, I wouldn't have done it by any chance, could contribute, in the future, someone less, someone more. Maybe you'll do more and we'll do less, but I'm pretty sure what we did five, six and seven years ago, we wouldn't repeat in the future what I want to do to you. I want you to live a political life for the life and future of Serbia, not for the hate and removal of someone you couldn't or couldn't win. I think it's one much more serious, one much more responsible goal, and if we had many good ministers on the lager, I would have made up my mind, but we don't have them at all, they're not in Serbia at all, although each of our citizens thinks they'd be the best football selector, as well as the best minister in any area, in any area. That's exactly why it lasted, but it was about 50 or 100 times shorter than how much one of you needed to remember these subjects at all, and to do something like that you've never done before. In the future, I hope you learn lessons from this, so maybe you do something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48875	Thank you, Mr. President. (Alexander Vukic, from the city: Kazakhstan is a helicopter. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48876	Dear Prime Minister, at the very beginning, I want to let you know that someone has deceived you. No one wrote, nor did he say, "Who is it that Maya wrote about honesty?" My tweet referred to the absurdity that is happening today in Serbia's parliament, which is that you are teaching us jurisdiction, that Marijan Risticevic is teaching us culture, and Maya is teaching us honesty. Not about the honesty in which you thought, you and your colleague, Gasic, but about the honesty they know about, first of all, the citizens of Vojvodina and Novi Sad, and we know who we were here, that Mrs. Maja has changed all the seats in this assembly and all the parties that work here. I could talk about it for a long time, but I don't want to waste any time. Mr. Prime Minister, in 2012, upon arrival as defence minister, you said in September of the month, I think September 12th, that the Ministry of Defence is the best ministry of all ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In your interview on December 12th on television, you said the Ministry of Defense had no affairs, nor were there, quote, although many wanted to see them. You boasted about the results of the Department of Defense and I was grateful to you for showing that dose of decency that you lacked at the time. For what? Because in the meantime, you left this place even though I am in public, and you personally, said that I am glad that you came to that position believing that with your power, the political power that I had not allowed the defence system to advance, that the Serbian Army is making progress, that wages, diaries would increase, that people could pay off the loans they had raised. What happened in the meantime? In the meantime, we've come to the spiral of decay since an inert of the military's progress. From what point? From the moment Mr. Bratislav Gasic is headed by the Ministry of Defence. For what? Because he spent all his time convincing Serbian citizens and members of the military that he had inherited a destroyed army, a destroyed defence industry, and that it was he who had made fantastic results. Which segment? You're talking about 768 million licenses issued. Here, there sits the honorable Mr. Miloradovic, who can teach you at least something. Seven hundred and sixty million were issued permits and 231 million exports. Two thousand eight years, 580 million permits, 224 million exports. So, they tell you things that you obviously don't get to study, someone's cheating on you just like you did on this tweet today. And what did he do wrong? A lot of things. It's full of files here things that have been done badly. But I'll tell you what's important to me for the defense system, firstly, the projects that were done have been stopped. We saw it on the parade that was done for Putin and Lasta, that's how it exists, we saw "The Sparrow", we saw "The Pegasus", we saw a lot of things that never came back to life. For months you've been talking about "Nora", so here's what Mr. Miloradovic has to tell you, so "Nora" exists for 10 years, about "Lazara Two", how many pieces you've sold, Podkin's villages you build around Serbia that you can't see and have no results. You may be angry. They're facts. But even that's not the most important thing. You know, in 2009 there was a bigger crisis in Serbia than in today, across Europe. Germany was in recession. We've cut everyone's salary in the state administration. You know who we're not? Army and police. For what? Because these people are carrying a gun. Because people are risking their lives, just like in that case a helicopter or in all those cases you've listed, you haven't said about Doskovic's case, the senior sergeant who, given the circumstances of his colleague, got shot in the chest and I never attacked and there's Mr. Gasic, let him say. Did I ever call you because there was an accident in the military? On the contrary, I have sent you a message of support. Is that how it was, Mr. Gasic? Let me tell you -- don't worry about a lot, you're not to blame, but let these things never happen again. Mr. Vukic, there's one thing I can't accept, and that's the suicide of a pilot for a reduced salary, Mr. Major Ace Petrovic. You cut people's salaries, you cut the salaries to the military, you cut their drastic diaries, you brought them to the edge of the existence, and those who took the loans for apartments can't pay off. All this is happening in time while the Ministry of Defence is headed by Mr. Gasic. I could tell you a lot of things, and about listening, I'd like you to finally tell Mr. Wolfie who ordered your secret listening, because I'm telling you that no one sitting in this room did that, that we finally know who did it? Also, nothing less important. To remind Simeon made a recommendation for Mr. Gasic's shift. The Nautilus that was elected to the Serbian parliament, as well as all MPs, i.e. the government. So a lot of things have been done wrong. There are big results, but you just walk into the Ministry of Trade and Tourism site and look at everything you're saying just doesn't stand, 750 million permits. So, what? How much was exported? Well, less than 2010. And you will be told by Miloradovic, who was in the SDPR at the time, I will also tell you Zrnić, the general who sits here. That's true. Mr. Prime Minister, I personally think the defence minister, Mr. Gasic, is not worthy of the post. The reason for the shift you've listed now is certainly important, but it had to be replaced before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48877	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48878	Miloradovic just told me you weren't telling the truth. After you asked Miloradovic, you said Miloradovic, Miloradovic came to me, so he showed me the papers and I'll read them to you. So we'll go back to everything else. So, as far as the license is concerned, it's a total of 815 million 397 thousand, I think it's dollars, and as far as exports are concerned, it's three hundred and four million and 940 thousand, that's what the realized exports sold in 2015... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What year? It's not there. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48879	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, be polite, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48880	So that's the official data I'm getting you out of here. I can go to the factory for the factory, get the company to read to you, but I'll try to get back to everything you've been talking about. You've said the most terrible things here and shown what it means, not political, but human rudeness. You're Mr. Sutanovac fired, you personally fired 10078 people, 10078 people. How many of them killed themselves because of you? How many of them died because of you? How are you not ashamed and ashamed to say such things? That would never occur to decent people. That honorable people would never say, shame on you. You came here to talk someone killed themselves because his salary was reduced by 10%. Shame on you, it's your fault for bringing our country to bankruptcy. And you should give us sermons and lectures here. Ten thousand seventy-eight people are out of work. How many of them and their families had nothing to eat because of what you've done, and we've reduced unemployment from 26.7% to 17.6% and hold our sermons here. I've never accused you of being guilty of the death of any of these soldiers, I've only shown you what hypocrites you are. What hypocrites you are when you do it to someone else, and you forget about yourself for your time what you did and how you did it. You've never heard a bad word from me. You've never heard a bad word from me about the military or the Ministry. You haven't heard it today. You want me to read to you who you fired. Not that you've cut 10%, but fired by different categories. At the personal request of an agreement without the right to retire 2142 persons, the power of the law without the right to retire in 1927, here's to read to you... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: What year? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48881	Mr. Sutanovac, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48882	He doesn't have to. Let him throw. Let him go, Mr. Becic. I prefer it when they show their decency, when they show that they have a lot of opponents, when they see that 20 are too much to have an opponent. We wish there wasn't one. That no one can think differently. So I'll read you year by year, professional soldiers 1049 plus 791, 2011 year 287 plus 151, 2010 year 196 plus 146, 2009 year 85, 141 plus 113 2008, 2007 340 plus 381. Every number exists, Mr. Sutanovac. You've left all these people without bread. You left them without bread, and here you give us a lecture that we had to treat Serbia, which we had to give the hardest possible injections to make the country survive, to survive, because you led the country to bankruptcy. How can you not be ashamed to say such things? And that's Bata Gasic's fault? I'm sorry, for 188 of those 10078, it's not your fault, unless I'm saying it's cause of death, like you said, which is just embarrassing to me and to think I'm saying that kind of words. You weren't telling the truth about your Mr. Sutanovac's tweets, as usual. Your tweets read, quote – Vučić about jurisdiction, Maja about honesty, Marijan about culture, reality of the Assembly. It wasn't exactly what you said. And to everyone it's clear, let him interpret whatever he wants. Then you add -- a wolf about decency as a soldier about shortness and someone about honesty. Wasn't that clear enough, too, Mr. Schutanovac? That wasn't clear enough either. Is that not clear to you, Mrs. Vuchkovic? Or you'd understand if someone said it. Or does this insolence have one side of the world and the other has no rudeness? Was that not clear enough, Mr. Sutanovac? That wasn't clear enough either? Is that not clear to you, Mrs. Vuchkovic? Or would you understand if one of us said that? Or is it insolence and there's one side to the world and there's no decency, and there's no other? Your problem is that there are finally people in Serbia who are not afraid of the headlines that will announce what they want, who are not afraid of all possible attacks and who are allowed to fight against you and to oppose you in a democratic way, by political means, and not by that, you are blood that killed yourself. How can you not be ashamed? You still told us about successes or failures. I think today our dedicated industry stands something better, for the first time our dedicated industry pays, better than in my day, for the first time the dedicated industry pays taxes and contributions, they haven't paid before. To us, the biggest debtor is the flag of arms in all of Serbia. It won't change for another two or three years, absolutely sure, but for the first time they started paying, everyone else pays taxes, and that's a big deal for us. It's a big change compared to what we had before. We even have salary growth in the OIS, which you know is the defence industry of Serbia. So, I'm not sure we could have followed that up, we have a new 2115 employees. We'll have even 3,000 more now. That's good, and that's what you should be looking forward to. These are the things you should be commending. They were supposed to invite you to the opening of the chaplain. As far as NOR is concerned, our serial production, since you know the whole process, all the documentation has been delivered to the OTC, our serial production is either March 31st or April 1, 2, 3rd is moving around the NOR. As for Lazara, we've already worked, I'm not angry with your colleagues, maybe I'm a little tired, and I need concentration and peace, so, as far as Lazara is concerned, when Bato, I think the same thing should happen in late April at the beginning of May at the latest to go to serial production, even though I know it's been talked about for 15 years. I hope we get together, ten, how many? Okay. How many Milorads? Eight years. So I believe we're finally going to go and we're finally going to do everything we haven't done in the previous period, just like we did with NSK and a lot of other things. As far as "Lasta" is concerned, the 15 owners are now arriving, in 10-15 days, you can come see them, we'll show them to our entire people. Our "Utta" did it and I think it's well done. So that's about the good stuff. I've also prepared to answer in a different way. I take away my right to act irresponsiblely and irresponsiblely and take away my right to answer you personally. I'm taking away my right because I think what you said today and wrote much better and much more about yourself, and about the political party that you belong to or the parliamentary group, than I could say with all the arguments and all the information about you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48883	I thank you, Mr. President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48884	Mr. Prime Minister, may I have your attention, please? You're cheating on us again. Thousands of people, young soldiers, were employed in the process of professionalising the Serbian Army. People who sign an accession contract Serbia's military have a limited contract and they're coming out of the system and it's possible 10,000 have come out of the system, but the new 10,000 have also entered the system. So, you have a problem with your associates who give you the flat-rate estimates that you're making the wrong conclusions from, and I believe that's because you're exhausted, obviously, like you said. What you're talking about, I'm saying -- it's true, 10,000 of them have come out of the system, just as much has entered the system. Without 10,000 people in the Serbian Army, there would be 15,000 people, that's impossible. They lead you astray, and you say things that don't stand. I remind you, a very important thing, that "Lasta" and "Lazar" and "NOR", all of this was realized in time when we were in power. I'd like you to listen to me. I wish Gašic didn't show any circles here. I don't know what he's doing. I listened very carefully. It's interesting that right now in this room no one's throwing anyone away. Finally, we can discuss the way the citizens of Serbia deserve to follow parliament's session. Thanks to who? Just now the SNS that got out of the O.R. That wouldn't have been possible if they had stayed. They lead you astray, all those projects you're talking about. I'm asking you, how many NORs have you sold since 2012, and not an annex to the contract that was made before 2012? How many “Lazaras ”? Not one. Bangladesh, Kenya, everything. I can't talk to you like this when you're talking to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48885	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. I don't know why you're cheating on the public, you've been throwing it all along. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48886	To tell you the truth, you haven't heard these accusations from me, not even for these 10,000 people, I told you today after your monstrous stories here, about how it was someone who killed themselves. It's so monstrous that I don't know what else to tell you about it. You know, yesterday you criticised Nebojsa Stefanovic for 1,500 people, because the system needs to be healthier, there must be a system. It was a terrible problem back then, and you've got 10,000 fines and everything normal and everything. Wait, where's the logic, where's the meaning of everything? You're talking about how much, I don't know, we've sold nine, we're going to get a full report in a few minutes and how far it's gone to Kenya, how much it's gone to Bangladesh, as much as any other place, but you'll be invited, so please respond, not as your president when we invite him to come to the anti-terrorist exercise, and it's as Prime Minister Vojvodina, so he won't come, as if it wasn't his country. I called him myself, I got him on the phone, I called him myself. He even confirmed he was coming, so he didn't show. So, you'll be invited, so let's cheer together, because that's how responsible people are supposed to behave, when you see how the serial production is going and how much progress the Big Plan factory has made. It's not personal to what I opened two years ago, it's now much, much better and hires a lot more people. Besides, 2,115 people are more employed, not newly employed, but more employed in the dedicated industry sector than it was, it still means something. So, since Miloradovic is here, I have great confidence in Miloradovic, who is probably our biggest expert, I think that even the contracts he has concluded lately, this one is of 95 million, if I am not mistaken, etc., that they are talking about the good and bright future of our own purpose, if our diseases, our irresponsibility can be overcome in these factories, which you know are in burdensome problems and torments inherited from the past and in which it is not easy and easy to solve things. I don't want to talk about the "Serbian Bank" that was led to bankruptcy, which was supposed to finance the dedicated industry, precisely because it served tycoons and politicians to collect their profits from it, not to really serve their purpose and purpose. What's startled me is that you're talking about how nobody's throwing anyone away right now. I've never thrown it at you before. Sometimes we can exchange a word, but that's – not when you're talking, not when I'm talking. But you accused SNS MPs of it. What would you like, another 20 of you to shout in your voice all the time when I'm the only one here who has the right to speak? For the sake of the public, it would make it easier for me if the ministers had the right to speak. None of the ministers on this matter have the right to speak, except me. What else do you have to do to make sure that you're so nice that 20 of you didn't jump with the sticks and get me out of here? Thank you for that fineness. This wasn't SNS's fault today. This is your fault today. It's your fault today, it's a shame not to admit it, and it's a shame none of you will admit it. It's your fault 100%. It was like those stories we had with Croatia in politics, so as two sides to calm down. What two sides? You give us sanctions, don't let our trucks go to Croatia, as two sides to calm down. Like, the atmosphere is like that, they're all like that. It's not everybody here, it's just you. You said – Vukić about decency, Maja about honesty, Marijan about culture and Vukić about courtesy as a soldier about shortness and someone about honesty. That's your word. Well, it's a shame, it's a shame for someone who wants to do public work and it's a shame for someone who would like to talk about decent, modern and advanced Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48887	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48888	Mr. Prime Minister, ministers in the government, you, Prime Minister, have succeeded in what you wanted. For days you have announced your battle – against all. For days you've announced that you'll show here, quote, and give the opposition's MPs a chance to get rid of you. Of course, you said that with irony. You needed one tweet to put parliament in your pocket, to show it in the most brutal way, regardless of what we absolutely condemn all insults at the expense of anyone, and especially at the expense of women, let them come from either side, all without distinction for judgment, but you used that tweet for the first time in our history, as you like to say, MPs of the ruling coalition, over 200 of them, to take a break. And just before I was very happy, you confirmed that they would return to the vote, because the public had already begun to speculate that people would not come back to vote. The public that is sensitive, because they no longer know what reality is, what is fiction and farce you spend daily in the Republic of Serbia. He doesn't know anymore whether you really want to avoid voting on the shift of Minister Gasic or not. And thank you for clearing that up. What you haven't made clear is why we're here in the first place. We are not gathered here to replace the Army of Serbia, nor Milorad, or, as the distinguished gentleman is called, we are gathered here for your call, because you have proposed the dismissal of the defence minister. And why have we resolved the Secretary of Defense, i.e. Why will we resolve it if the progressives are worthy of returning to the congregation? The same ones who, for months, years, the biggest, most horrible things said about political opponents. You have introduced public discourses into Serbia such as "the traitor", "the thief", "the junkie", "the psycho" and everything else. Look at your party's statements, you don't have to go any further than that. Not to mention what your MPs, who applaud you here, are saying about political opponents. Don't think I'm adjudicating anyone who's offended women or anyone else in any unfair way. That's what you've never heard from my mouth. Remember the fifth column. You've reacted well, Prime Minister. I publicly commended you. Before that, I asked that you personally plead and reprove the Ambassador Babic. You did it, but you didn't reprove him when he said we were genocide, you didn't reprove him when he said we were psychiatric cases and you didn't reprove him in many other situations. Well, you'll agree, it's a little illogical that you're surprised that the opposition wants you to see something else, not to drive your MPs out of the assembly, which the citizens chose to represent their interests. It was tragic to see the great allies of yours, the runners on your list, like SPO, SDPS, and I don't know who else, who come out here and say they can't stand to listen. And it is tolerable to defend Minister Gasic? We listened here to praise the minister, about his work, and Minister Gasic deserved to leave the post before this incident, and of course we will vote for minister Gasic's shift. Many MPs before me spoke of the reasons for his departure. I'll tell you one thing. The defence minister who makes such a problem with OMBUDSMAN, such a problem with our country's institutions, such a problem that today has relations with the general staff, such a problem, although it may not be directly wrong, it is your fault to reduce the wages, to reduce the daily work in the Serbian Army, and you know it well that these people now look at you and expect to live decently the uniforms they wear, and you took that away from them. You, not Gasic. Gasic is the perpetrator of what you seek. Now we have been brought into a farce situation, to talk only about the last pearl in the necklace of all possible failures, mistakes and failures of Minister Gasic, not the many other things listed so far. Yes, none of the ministers can speak except you, that's true. But the minister needed much more content and more often to answer questions in this assembly, and he didn't, so now you're saying it here. You know very well, Mr. Wolfie, what you wanted to accomplish. You're an atlas that carries the globe on its shoulders. You don't sleep, you work hard, until the last citizen of Serbia lives in misery or leaves it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48889	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48890	You're an atlas that destroys this country. You are what Ann Rang wrote and what you admire.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48891	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48892	I'm glad that a lot of people thought that it was coming to an election censorship by showing that you could be even more insulting than your predecessors, because I guess that's the only way. I'll try to answer everything you said. It's about direction. Well, you're the only one, you're just cutting and doing, your whole group, the group. You're talking about allies here. Well, you don't have one, not an ally, but a man, not in the congregation, or anywhere else who would be. For you there is no one to enter this hall nor to go out, nor will any man desire it, for you are only important to yourself and your reflection in the mirror, but that is all that matters. There are other things I don't want to talk about right now, because you're the one who's having a hard time walking out of here to law school, so you crash a state car. Are you the one with more expensive shoes than two average salaries in Serbia? Are you going to give me a lecture today, you who should tell me how and how it is directed and the script is made? You are the ones who have allowed yourselves to speak to us. The public wonders whether they will replace Bata Gasic. They'll change it because our word means something, and yours doesn't mean anything. Because our word binds us, and you are not bound by anything. As far as the commanding officer is concerned, I don't command anyone, especially not the MPs, and I didn't think of them coming out. I was even surprised. I just got a message that they were holding a press conference. But I apologize to you both on their behalf and on my own that these people are people, that they have their emotions about the public, it's not the public, it's you and the other few haters who have only one policy, which is – we hate as much as we can and it's our electoral slogan, it's our slogan not only for elections, but for every day. Now, that our slogan will never be. It will never be our slogan. You make fun of it. You work, you don't sleep. Yeah, I do. I do a lot more than you do. I want you to work at least half that time. Then you'd have an ally and someone to come after you into this room and get out of it, but you have to work. You have to work from early morning to late night. Like it or not, that's right. If you have to tell me it's a lie, tell me – it's not true, you didn't work here and that Saturday, you didn't work here and that week, you didn't do that day. Who knows what time I came from London this morning to have meetings and to come here. I'm the only one here from all of you as many as you are, 15 or 16 at this point, who hasn't left this room. You all went out for a walk, someone to the restaurant, someone to the MP's room, someone over here, someone over there. You all as much time as you want, and I don't want one second, because I respect the MPs, I respect the National Assembly and I respect the citizens of Serbia. I haven't left this room for a second. Maybe that's not normal either, but I'll agree, but that's right. It shows the respect I provide and which I give to those who pay us, who choose us. You were talking about wages and journals, because I guess that's the easiest topic. You've destroyed not only wages and journals, but you've destroyed the whole country and led to bankruptcy. You're talking about uniforms. They didn't have uniforms in your time. We bought 35,600 uniforms and 34,445 pairs of boots. That's what we bought, not you. New uniforms and new boots. We made sure those people could keep working. Yes, temporarily, as much as we had to because of your haughtiness, ignorance and the fact that you brought the country into bankruptcy, we reduced receipts. We're slowly increasing. We've increased by 2%, we'll increase further, but that depends on the results. It depends on how much we're going to do and how much we're going to make, not how much cynicism we're going to spread. It is the champions of the world, but in what you are champions of the world, it brings neither allies nor those who will come in after you or out of this room to come out. In the end, what I think is very important, and that's that dictionary we use and you keep saying that someone tells you that you're a traitor or I don't know what. Don't make it up. That's what you use every day. You use that as some kind of a race, like some kind of rhyme in everything you say. You don't even know when it's up to you or how anyone said it to you. When Zoran Babic said that, I personally warned him. I personally called the boss of your party back then, after you changed four party heads in a few months, and I apologized to him for that, and I'd always do it. I think it's the face of a decent Serbia and I think that's how someone should behave. When I said it publicly, then it became clear to everyone that it shouldn't be a language or a dictionary, but what do you care, you'll repeat it hundreds of times, because it's only possible. Because you don't know how to make your future, but -- I'm the one who hates it the most, you saw what I told you. Well, you've told me a terrible thing. I'm so scared I don't know where I'm going to get out of here. There could be 20 more of you. You're not going to scare me, and I'm not going to get out of here. And whenever you make fun of it as much as I do, I'll tell you, yes, I work at least twice as hard as you, and it's not double as it is twice as much. Work, diligence is the most important thing in life. You can build a new world on that, not cynicism, not hate. But I wish you a lot of success, I want you with less anger, less bitterness and less cynicism you speak, fully convinced that you will have a great political future, only for that you will have to do a little bit more work and another little thing - to get people's trust, and people's trust is not easy to get. I think the citizens of Serbia have heard all this well after all. Last time you told me to live for someone applauding me in the congregation. As you can see, it looks like we made a deal, so I made them come out so I wouldn't listen to those applauses. (National MP Borislav Stefanovic applauds. That's already, as I would say, a smart political move. It is already a smart political move and serious progress and I congratulate you on that, Mr Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48893	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48894	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, you who are master of cynicism and irony, you know very well what my applause meant. I know you're getting low on concentration, so don't be embarrassed because you're missing your taps here in the O.R., but it's also on the side. I really don't want to get into the controversy, but I'd have to answer a few things. First, it's not right to keep saying that someone hates you. I see that you have this internal problem politically and I don't understand at all where it comes from. You are, in effect, transposing, as if you have a device inside you that transfers criticism, most often argued, in the feeling that someone hates and haunts you and that they are all against you. Another problem you have, mirror problem. It's called psychological transfer and you know it well, you often use it. You tell us about the mirror, then it looks comical, really. Third thing, don't count the columns as many as anyone has, make fun of the people's will in some way, until they're checked in a democratic way. If you are partners and associates and allies, as you said, Rasim Ljajic and Ivica Dačić, SPO Vuk Draskovic, Palma, PUPS and the whole team, we really don't need such allies. You know why? We won't beat you, and it will last, and it won't be short, so we understand each other, and it won't be easy with you, since you control everything alive. We'll beat you with politics and ideas, people. You are neither the first nor the last to underestimate us, but you know very well, when you look inside yourself, that you will be defeated by both opposite and better policies than what you do to us. We don't hate you, we hate what you do to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48895	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48896	I'm done. I'm glad you understand, and you're covering it up with insults, that Mr. Gasic is your choice and that he was absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48897	I hope you're pleased with yourself for insulting all your colleagues by calling them tappers. Here you go, Prime Minister. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48898	You're right, I may not have understood everything very well, but I don't underestimate anyone for one second. On the contrary, I think that you are very strong and I think that people who are so irresponsible, as you are in your statements, that they always get the easiest and reach the greatest power. Well, it's not the first time in our country and it's the easiest way to do a job like that. As for the mirror, I better not talk about it, but in that mirror, when you look at it, do you sometimes see the ones you mentioned today – both Rasim Ljajic and Hansel Dacic and Palm and many others? You sat with them in the same government, sitting in the same assembly. They were good to you at the time, and they were the best to you in the world, and today they are the worst to you in the world, and with them today you will not, even though you wanted to yesterday. They were wonderful and good to you yesterday. They're no good to you today. It's a strange principle, or maybe it's because of a choice that's yet to be held. You speak of insults, and every word of yours is an insult not only to common sense, but an insult to every other man. As for irony and cynicism, and when I have them and when I use them, I always repent and try to get it out of me, and it seems to me that it becomes a fundamental virtue to some. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to recommend you to do this one more time. You are much better off than cynicism, irony and everything else because when you work, when you have sacred goals, when you have important goals, when you want a different Serbia, when you fight for it, then you achieve results. When you don't see it, there's nothing from the results. Just don't tell us about honesty, and don't tell us about who's responsible for the economic situation in our country, for firing people, privatizing factories, privatizing companies in our country, because you destroyed them all, destroyed them, robbed them, robbed our people and left them naked and barefooted, to see how every factory we can run and what it is we can do. We're gonna fight, we're gonna keep working. I'll remind you of what the great Tolstoy has said, and that is, everyone loves a lot of helpers. To that I would like to add the words of Roosevelt that I like the most, which is that the reward belongs to those who are in the arena, who are fighting, who are both dirty and sweaty and bloody, not those who stand on the side, kibbutz and earn and would always do better than those who are in the arena. In the end, all fame for justice should belong to those who are such fighters. You'd better look at the state of our country, how much of it we've managed to cure, what it is that we've been able to fix and see what it is that we haven't been able to fix and what's supposed to be better. On that matter, both your help and everyone else would be very welcome. And until then, don't be angry that I'm going to keep my rights to myself, because you're talking about me every day, and you're always saying the ugliest possible thing, and always in the language of insult, I'm telling you, sir, just once in two months when I come to the National Assembly and when I can tell you in person. I think it's fair, I think it's gentlemanly. I think it's a reflection of a democratic culture and I'm just asking you not to forbid me and not to grant me the right to answer you, to think differently and to be able to fight for my policy, which I think is responsible, serious, to lead Serbia's prosperity and that it's very, very different from what you stand for. My right, and as far as Bate Gasic is concerned, he was my choice, as my decision to be replaced. We could have done everything together that you've never done. What you haven't done today, but you've continued with insults and women, you've continued with insults and colleagues, you've continued with insults to everyone. Since some of them are taps, and you're supposed to be very smart, some of them are like this, and you're some kind of elite. You're nothing. Just a man like all of us. I'm just a man. You're not offended that I don't think you belong to the elite, are you? But for what? I'm just a man, an ordinary man, completely ordinary, completely normal, don't make me tell you what the difference is. I wish you a lot of success, and I wish you good luck, and I hope to see you here again soon. I guess we'll have some discussion to her right up until the election, and I believe after the election. Good luck to you. I have always found your applause and your presentations in the congregation interesting, and I hope that will be the future. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48899	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stefanovic, you have no right to a replica, especially since you have previously used the worst insults to the Prime Minister and to your colleagues. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48900	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, for starters, I welcome your decision not to adopt Mr. Gasic's resignation and to transfer the debate to parliament. I think it's one very good thing, although I suspected from the very beginning that it was a farce, which was confirmed the moment the ruling majority MPs came out of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whether someone will vote "yes" or "against" Mr. Gasic's shift, therefore, is completely irrelevant. It's important whether women, mothers, or sisters have a different relationship in our society. Will Serbia's journalists get better? Will Bratislav Gasic's shift, or resolution, reduce violence in Serbia? Will the shift of Bratislav Gasic reduce fear, reduce the misery and humiliation that Serbian citizens feel for the fourth year in a row? For Serbian citizens from their corner one Bratislava Gasic more or less in the government of the Republic of Serbia, they do not care. Humiliation is what is enormous and which they have felt for four years now, as the Serbian Progressive Party has ruled Serbia. If all this is not a farce and I may be completely wrong, then I want you to answer my question – what is the measure of dignity for the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What is this measure that represents the limit between dignity and unworthyness? If this is an insult that is truly terrible, then why did you not replace Mr. Gasic when it comes to a helicopter, when it comes to an affair that was happening with the Anti-Corruption Agency, which referred to various corrupt actions? Is this a relationship to independent institutions, as you know, the Guardian of Citizens, could not perform his duty to which the National Assembly has authorized? If the standard of dignity is an insult or a relationship to independent institutions or corruption, then there are still some ministers in the government that you chose on your team. There is Mr. Vulin, there is Zorana Mihajlović, there is Mr. Lončar and many others. Bratislav Gasic is today exclusively a paradigm of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the way the SNS is headed by Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia is humiliating the citizens. It's the citizens who feel the fear today, who feel the misery. The election ahead of us will not be an election for Alexander Vukic or for the Democratic Party, it will not be a referendum of this type. The elections in the Republic of Serbia will be elections between, on the one hand, humiliation and on the other hand human dignity. Whether and how and how Serbian citizens will allow themselves fear, misery or humiliation in the coming period is what we will see in the next elections. In any case, it is not clear to us what standard of dignity you and your ministers have when it comes to the policy you are implementing in the act, which is why the citizens of Serbia have been completely degraded and humiliated for the fourth year in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48901	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48902	Just remind me, I'll answer everything. Respected members of the government, honourable MPs, as is the case today when the head of the parliamentary group spoke, said why Bata Gasic failed to resign. She said -- why Bata Gasic didn't resign. Now says the speaker -- it's a good thing Bata Gasic didn't resign. Well, it's a good thing he resigned or it's not good that he resigned. And that's what I told you, and I told you that that's the point, whatever he did, you'd have a complete comment. Whatever I did, you'd have a conflicting comment. It's a good thing people saw it. You say, farce when someone left something. Farsa, I repeat, is that you have offended the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the most terrible way. Farsa and you couldn't say sorry for the terrible insults of your vice presidents and a girl or a woman who works here in the Assembly and some journalists. Shut up all the time. Shut up all the time because it doesn't matter. It's one little sorry is too big a mountain for you to be able to skip or bypass it than if we can hide somewhere in the foothills and yell at the eagles at the top of the mountain as they blame us for all the misfortunes and troubles. You're saying this is a question for our women, mothers and sisters, it's true, so Bata Gasic is no longer a minister and therefore it's a shame not to say sorry for what your vice presidents of your party said. And they said much worse and much harder things than Bata Gasic said. It is also a shame for that part of the public who always sees the culprit not in Bata Gasic, but of course in the Serbian government, was not their Bata Gasic target. It's the same ones as Mr. Stefanovic who, as in the mirror while he was sitting and saw his picture sitting here, how he ended up with himself and his picture came out, and it's my duty to sit here all the time and hear you all and to answer everyone. And you have just as many minutes or some have as many minutes as their picture is in the mirror and they don't hear anyone, because they're much smarter and much smarter than everyone else. You're talking violence, and today, for the first time, women have a chance to report it. It was not violence that increased, but for the first time women reported violence, they should not have reported violence before. Now, these are positive changes in society even though it's disastrous how much violence we have. Although it's disastrous how many disgusting bastards we have who beat up women and who think it's normal. I don't have words I'd use for people like that, they're not people, but today women can say it and they can come to a safe house, they can say it anywhere. It's a change for all of our society, and I don't deserve it either you or anyone else. Our society has been moving forward evolutionaryly, and it's a good thing that's the case. You're talking about the measure of dignity. We have shown our measure of dignity and our limit today, and you are your boundlessness to the extent of unworthyness. There's no statement you can make after which you'd say I'm sorry. There is no word you can say without being ashamed of it even though it is much worse and much worse and much worse than any letter that Bratislav Gasic has spoken. On the Anti-Corruption Agency, have you considered the final decision of the Anti-Corruption Agency? She goes along with Bratislava Gasic, but you read the first article in the paper. Here's your second-degree solution. You were talking about some crime, the humiliation of citizens. You mentioned Minister Zorana Mihajlović, Vulin, Lončar, are you kidding? Do you really want to talk about crime? You talk about crime and corruption? You talk about crime and corruption, I'm just going to show one example to the citizens of Serbia, I don't know what the court is going to say, I've never called a judge, I don't think I know anyone unless someone was a colleague of mine in college, but I saw him 20 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, a criminal report has been filed in due time, I don't know what stage the proceedings are at, I suppose, like all the other proceedings with us will take place for 20 years, because the courts won't judge such cases. It's another vice president of yours, Millyvoje Vrebalov... (Dear Shutanovac, from the city: What is he? I don't know. He's the vice president. I don't know what the vice president is. He's yours, but he's a tall man. Some Igor Reba, Zoran Jankovic and Stojan Subotić, were suspected from 2011 to 2013 in the reconstruction, adaptation of the facility for the purposes of housing and stay of children distracted in the municipality of Novi Becej, the Heterland Castle in Bočar, falsely depicted in their work the volume and quantity of works carried out on the facility, spent the money paid for the construction of the facility, for the payment of their earlier debts and their own needs, and then disabled the compensation of investors by using inadequate means of payment of bonds without cover, thereby providing damage to the Fund for the capital investments of the AP Vojvodina for the illegal property benefit of the company "Gardi" of 61 million 722 dinars. It is about 541 000 427 euros and still somewhere around a million and 100,000 euros in total damage. A home for disabled children has never been built. Nothing's ever been done, but the million and 100,000 euros are gone, and when the police ask them, where's the money? There's no money. There's no money, there's no home for children, those kids don't know where to go now and how to be taken care of, but it's political rematch, it's political revenge, and every one of them is such political revenge. Like the one who earned 20m euros on the land of Novi Sad, this most popular minister of yours, which you are now saying is a great persecution over him, a political prisoner, you're telling me about crime and corruption, and because it's become we can say anything we want and how we want. True, our problem is the courts. Our problem is the courts, because some have implemented reforms by setting up their judges, not by really wanting a more effective judiciary. That's the thing, and that's the things we have to change. There's still no verdict for such terrible things. There's still no verdict for the disabled children's castle. No money, no missing money. Missing money, eating a cat. There's no money, and there's no home for carefree children, but it's political persecution. A terrible political persecution conducted by the Serbian government, I don't know who else. Well, great if it's political persecution. I think people know perfectly well and see what political persecution is and what political persecution isn't. As for the choices you keep talking about, I don't think about the choices, but I'm thinking about the second part of your sentence, which is fear, misery and humiliation. The people stopped fearing Serbia, stopped fearing those who had nothing but shame and have, who are able to rob disabled children and are allowed to speak openly everything they think. As for misery and humiliation, in such misery you have brought us all to such despair, you have brought us all to such despair that for years it will not be able to return. Some new governments will be involved when they arrive, but someone will succeed. The important thing is that Serbia has gone out of that ambition and is going faster and faster and you cannot stop it or anyone else. And whoever wins that election will have to go that way. No one will be able to throw out the IMF the way you kicked him out of here in 2011, because we need discipline, because we need responsibility, because we need seriousness, and your solution was -- well, now we're forcing them out, so we're going to raise salaries and pensions to tell the people that we love them more than these foreign villains who don't know anything from the IMF. Was that politics? Well, it is. Now, that was humiliation, that was misery and that was fear. Today fortunately, there is no more, but, of course, let us leave the citizens of Serbia to evaluate them and to assess who, as well as how they behave, who will and in what way they will behave in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48903	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go, Mrs. Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Wolfie, I am an ordinary Member who hates no one, but has his own opinion and I hope this time I can express my opinion to the end without interrupting the chairman. Somehow, Minister Gasic's shift, which you suggested, spontaneously, and thanks to you, connected to the concept of decency. Obviously, your sense of decency has just been demonstrated in today's session. Unfortunately, you have shown Serbian citizens that you SNS MPs do not understand what this word means. You should set an example for ministers, MPs, and citizens with your proper conduct. I don't think your explanation for Minister Gasic's shift was sincere. You did this by assuming that the statement by Minister Gasic would raise the public's voice. You did not want to be forced under public opinion to replace Minister Gasic. You warned by announcing the shift of Gasic's reaction to the public. This government, and rare exceptions, is the image of haughtiness towards opposition MPs, according to journalists who dare to ask unpleasant questions, according to intellectual circles that criticise the government's work, as well as representatives of independent regulatory bodies. The lightly expressed rude qualifications, given to opposition representatives, your party statements that remind you of your radical times, do not represent an example of decency, on the contrary. You and your government, of course, I say again, honor the exceptions, your arrogant MPs and members of the SNS give a model of conduct that almost four years ago was almost forgotten. Mr. Prime Minister, please behave first. Then, you courteous your members of the government, of course not all, and of course your MPs, and then ask others to be polite. Ask Minister Gasic to act as someone who understands his mistake at this time. It seems to me that he's exulting right now, because he knows that instead of a ministerial post, there might be a far more attractive position waiting for him because he's the closest associate of the prime minister in whom he has confidence, I quote your words. So the courtesy you were talking about at the beginning of the session is just declarative, you can't be seen in behavior, you're being dishonest, and that's obvious. Your desire for Serbia, as a decent society, will be realized when you understand and accept the word perfectly and accept it and accept it as a model of your own behaviour. Then, motivated by your decent behavior, your closest associates, whether or not they are good people, as you say. Your model of conduct will be accepted by your MPs, and finally by the others. Give an example. Unfortunately, more praise has been given here about Minister Gasic, talk about the military, peace missions, the situation in the military. That today, Mr. Prime Minister, is not a topic. The topic is the rude conduct of Minister Gasic and his resolution. Unfortunately, Minister Gasic obviously does not feel like a penitent. It is evident that his mistake is not understood, unfortunately, by MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, applauding Minister Gasic as some kind of winner. Obviously, your opinion matches theirs. It is obvious your desire to join them in applauding, but act politely and barely refrain. That's my opinion. So, suit this debate and bring it back to the topic – the proposal to be resolved by Minister Gasic. In the end, a decent prime minister does not speak to the Messenger – shame on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48905	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48906	For all of this, I can remind him of Nikola Pasic, since he was the role model of Watchston, and then they told him at one point – what you did now, Bajo, Gladiston would never do, and he said: “What kind of English are you, so am I, and so am I, Gladstone.” You've been insulting us all along, Your Honor, to me more than once. It's already been funny for you to know that we'd be acting a little differently but, well, we don't act like you know that I would applaud, but, well, I don't applaud, but you feel it. Then you know that I've been looking forward to some applause, even though I haven't shown it, because I know some others wouldn't like to see it. So, are you psychic? What's the matter? I think it's polite of you to respect someone and answer them that, if you tell someone – shame on you, I really think it's a shame what one gentleman here said, saying someone is guilty of someone's death, because of their pay, and he's probably responsible for the lives of all those 10,000 people who lost their jobs, not of 10%, but without a job. I think it's elemental rudeness. What ugly word is spoken? Well, none, you can't find her. That's jurisdiction. What I won't let you all, it's that you humiliate us, insult us, that you don't get the answer, that you knock our teeth out in a political debate, because we'll always be ready to fight and because I won't run away from you and I won't get away from you. Every time you call for a congregation debate, I will always come without fear or trouble. What else was Bata Gasic supposed to do? You say: He will go to a much better place, as you quote me. I didn't say that for a second. I just told you he won't be the director of "Mtel" either, that he won't be an ambassador to Brussels, either. How did you come by that? You have something I don't know, so tell me. Who did you hear that from, or do you think that again? Because I know it's impossible for you to hear from anyone, because I don't have that decision. So you're thinking again? And you know what people think? It's usually an auto projection, so you would do it, and then you imagined that it was already done with us. It's not. Bata Gasic will not be any of it, at least not in some significant future period. He'll deal with the political party, do his own private business. I hope he'll be as successful as he's been until now, nothing more than that. I just don't know what else to wish for. What else do we have to do to him? What else do we have to do to him? What's that he hasn't been through? Here, I'll remind you who you didn't condemn when you talk about decency. We've been talking all day and judging what he's done. This is where the gentleman mentioned earlier told the girl – are you kneeling at SNS meetings? Is that better and better than what Bata Gasic was talking about? I think it's exactly the same. "What do you care what I bought? What do you care what I bought? I don't have to report anything to people. “ That’s what you tell a lady and a journalist, and there is no conviction for it. That's what I've been trying to pull out one word of conviction all day, for the vice president, for those who give us sermons and lectures on good behavior, and I haven't been able to win. Yes, it's about Goran Jesic. And in all that time, I haven't been able to get one excuse, and you've been getting our thousand pardons all day, and you're getting your shift, Bata Gasic's resolution. You say: "He is looking forward to another business." I've never seen anyone so hard to take a shift decision from that place as Bata Gasic. Do you want me to tell you that I've talked to Bat for days and nights about it, days and nights? Because it's not -- take the phone, hey Bato, you've been replaced, because that's not what people do, especially not responsible and serious people, especially not friends. But you must know what is allowed and what is not allowed in our Serbia. Words like this, things like this - cattle journalistic, stupid journalist, your source is a donkey with a big m, that's all right. Oh, yeah, I know, you have nothing to do with them, you're right. Yeah, I know. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, you're right, everything I've said has nothing to do with the subject. What has to do with the subject is with those people who really look into the future and who understand that we have to change ourselves. Those who understand best that others should change, and they do not come from themselves, and according to that, Your Honor, I accept what you have said. I'm going to change myself and I'm going to change myself my whole life and I'm going to study and I'm going to do more and I'm going to be more polite and I'm going to be better and I think it's an important thing and an important conclusion. And you're right, you don't change yourself, but watch as you change me, that's the smartest thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48907	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48908	Thank you. Appreciative to the Prime Minister for deciding to seek the resolution of the minister and not even surprised by the atmosphere of today's session, because both the government and the president and most of them have mixed up. We're not opponents here. You have no opponent here, no one, no one from the Prime Minister, no members of the government, and no one from the minister whose resolution will be voted upon. And that is a very nice illustration for the proposal that the Prime Minister shared with us and that we also agree with, to build decent, polite and moral Serbia. In such a Serbia, the rule of law is respected until the last letter. With an advance risk and a request to excuse the Prime Minister, the first thing he should do on behalf of these joint constructions and decent, moral and polite Serbia is not to communicate with us through dichotomy. One who knows he has value and has a result doesn't have to compare it to make his white look whiter than it is. That's good for everyone. It is absolutely good for everyone to introduce such a way of communication into discussions on issues concerning the construction of the rule of law in Serbia, because that is what this is about. But to everyone, of course, to the choice. The fact that Minister Gasic is reckless, I have no doubt and frankly, and thus my experience is something I rarely describe as an experience and an impression in the debates in the Assembly, and I believe it was truly funny to use the content of a sentence that is not funny anywhere, after some time and an apology, and that is a reason for resolution. - Today's debate is publicly said that some MPs will vote reluctantly, yes, but reluctantly. This is not how moral and decent Serbia is built. Either you have awareness of what you're voting for, as Minister Gasic had awareness of why he has to apologize, or you don't participate and you don't understand his own Prime Minister when he talks about courtesy, morality and decency. These are our common problems. It's not a question of political parties. Since I am deeply convinced that the minister has an reckless solution to the rule of law and in other sectors, this is an opportunity to answer the question I am asking as a national MP, which I am putting on the Committee of Auditors, where the Assembly has a completely legitimate right not to speak – who is Minister Gasic and with what content did he give information on the basis of which he concluded that it is necessary to issue an oral order on the mission of helicopters? It's an important question and an even more important answer. There is no answer to that question in any report. I was told it was the subject of an investigation. If so, it is enough to tell me, or the Prime Minister, because you cannot address me, that this is the case, and since the Prime Minister, as well as any member of the government, is bound by an ethical code which cannot comment on investigations, or anything related to investigations, then I will understand. Among us, whether or not spoken, it remains that the public of Serbia lacks an answer to the question – who supplied you with the information, who explained the information to you, followed by your oral order in the subordination to be a rescue helicopter mission, because this is important for solving the tragedy that we have together heavy memories and complicity with families. Finally, character is man's destiny, and if we want to change the society in which we act with our character, we need to understand that we cannot be in power and communicate as if we were an opposition. It is a little bit of a problem I hope will be removed and we will understand what public responsibility is, and what is the responsibility of the opposition in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48909	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48910	With most of what Mrs. Comic said, I agree. I don't agree that it's of crucial importance, but it's not on me, nor on her to say it's most important, nor on me to say it's irrelevant, a matter for the prosecution leading the investigation to bring a solution or to press charges against certain persons or to suspend proceedings. So I'm sure the prosecution and the competent state authorities will make their decisions in accordance with the law. Here I have countless orders from Sutanovac, me, Rodic, Gasic. Do you really think that every time you ask if you've heard from the Chief of Staff or if you've heard from the Chief of Staff or if you've heard from the Minister or if you've heard from anyone else? There's a procedure that you know, military, how helicopters take off, but at that point you're looking at how to help people, you're looking at how to help and who to help, how to do something for someone. Who's thinking about something else at that point? Nobody. Of course, that's my layman's judgment on it. The prosecution will give its legal answer that we've been expecting for a long time, so I think it's time for that. As for the rule of law and democracy, do not forbid people to think and to gladly or reluctantly draw certain conclusions. It's their right, as is your right to say at the first moment that it was better to resign, and then you say it's a good thing he didn't resign, and that's your right, but I don't know what of those two to answer. It seems to me that what we give ourselves as a possibility and as a right, we rarely take away others. Also, as for the courtesy that we want to build and different relationships, I wish I'd heard from you what you heard from me, when it comes to Bratislav Gasic. I wish I'd heard about your vice president and these other vice presidents, that you'd condemned it, as I haven't heard, but I guess that's also saying something, and I don't think it's bad that we had a chance to find out about it today. This thing about Maja Gojkovic was so ugly that I just don't have words, so ugly that you tried to cast a shadow and say that farce is what everyone else in the protest did. I don't know what a farce is, but what you've done today is scandalous, it's rude, and it's much worse than that, but what we're gonna do, I guess our political life, hopefully, will be able to get out of that stale gunpowder in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48911	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48912	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen of the Government, representatives and gentlemen of the Army, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my discussion and debate, I want to direct to the citizens who have been running for me to represent them in this House and, with great regret, I must conclude that we now have a situation that the people chosen by the citizens are not able to hear or participate, that they have their own position on what I am about to say and what happened during today's debate. On several occasions, I received messages that by 14 hours the debate seemed to be an uninformed man, as if it were a promotion of a new class of officers or an inauguration, assigned some distinction, and in fact we were discussing the replacement of the minister of military Mr. Gasic, who, as a public figure, had to, working in public life, adhered to a code which everyone had to adhere to, at some point did not endure and normally did not have some big stories. I felt that one military minister should act as any soldier, as I would have done, to be aware of his mistakes and to accept his own responsibility. But it turns out that all the stories about how we have the best, not the slow one, I am not at all in this story to be able to discuss everything more, have created an illusion in people and people have asked me if we live in a country where scientists need to prove that they are ashamed of their scientific achievements, that those who achieve the ultimate results of mathematics and physics have to justify what they have received or that there may be no place for them, that honest people who see thieves should be afraid for their lives because they have seen a thief or that educated, written fear of teaching illiterate and uneducated...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48913	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48914	Just one sentence. I'd like to finish with this, since many smart people have been quoted here, I want one smart man, my father, to quote. He told me when I went to the studies – son, first you have to beat yourself, so you can beat others, so I ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48915	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48916	I don't know what this place looked like to promote a new class of officers. I don't know who or what messages you're getting from, and I don't think that's supposed to be interested in anyone, with all due respect. Your father wisely said that – a man first needs to defeat himself, so that he can defeat others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48917	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48918	Thank you, Mr. Becic. As far as I understand the debate so far, Mr. Vukic has proposed the discharge of Minister Gasic, whose work he is otherwise delighted with, exclusively because of statements, rude, uncultural, dirty statements sent by journalist Zlatija Labovic. In that sense, my question is for the prime minister – what differs from Mr. Gasic's statement and, let's say, Mr. Vukic's statement of 24 August 2015 when he spoke of idiots who led the country before him, in which it differs from his several statements today that someone in this Assembly is hysterically doing something, in which it differs from the statement that Mr. Pajtic is a psychopath and a moron, from the statement that he is a yellow vampire, that he is not yet finished, and that all the criminals, ractics, drug addicts and drug addicts, and everything about the opposition are still needed? These are all, therefore, things that come from the SNS, so I'm interested in what exactly is this statement, Mr. Gasic, different from the way SNS communicates with everyone who opposes it, in any way? You know, Mr. Becic, I never say private things, but here's one private thing, what Mr. Vukic said Mr. Sutanovac said about our president, from word to word, it says on a poster that's stuck to Novi Sad, with my picture, which was glued to by the SNS. Well, I'd like to thank all my colleagues for the support they gave me on that occasion, Mr. Vukic, for taking me for protection on that occasion, and for hating me on the same occasion, how someone insults my MPs, and how someone insults women in Serbia. The fact that someone here has a face to compare the impromptu action of Minister Gasic, which there is no decision...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48919	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48920	I've been told I have two minutes and 25 seconds, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48921	In time, I warn you that your time is running out in five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48922	The fact that someone dared to compare Mr. Gasic's impromptu action with regular actions in which there were also tragic victims, speaks of how serious it is to introduce some kind of decency into...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48923	Thank you, Miss Jerkov. As you instructed me, posters weren't SNS posters, and so were those graphites that were in the New Sad. Thank you. There's a word for the Prime Minister. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Ali, thank you for your protection.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48924	There is no doubt that we have protected you and Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic came out with an official statement condemning such posters, the SNS is not involved and it would be a great shame if we had done so. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: deal with it. But I want to tell you, don't throw it away, I haven't thrown a word or said anything for one second. So, look what you've done now, you say -- these are posters that are against you, full of passion, and I understand that, full of heat and heat, and since these strengths and grizzlies are not on what Maja Gojkovic said today. I just told you that we were reacting, we're not behind it, we're reacting to something that someone else was doing. Did your party do so, as she did with "Death Pitiæ"? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: What was she doing? ) Well, let's say "Death Pajtic" took a pattern from the DS, one took "Death Fascism", and the other took "Bravo Pajtic" and concluded "Death Pajtic" to accuse the SNS of it. What do we do? All that noise in public was, it lasted two, three days, terrible graphites, until we found out and until the person who did it was arrested and who did it. As for today, you said Mr. Gasic's statement that she was rude, rude and rude. What are your colleagues' statements that are much worse than Mr. Gasic's statements? Are they rude, rude, dirty to the cube? Since they are at least several times worse and more drastic than Mr. Gasic's statement. We can't hear you say that. It didn't occur to you. Well, you see, I don't mind saying that for Mr. Gasic's statement. That's the difference I've been showing you all along, not a little difference. You say I said some idiots ran the country. What does that have to do with this statement? It was my political court, first you know what the word "idiot" means, second I think they're just irresponsible people, so come on, maybe it's an excessive word. I don't really think, perhaps, an excessive word, but I really don't think that they're extremely irresponsible, unserious, unworking and malicious people led the country when they could lead the country to bankruptcy, when they could lead the country to such a leap of fiscal deficit, when they could lead the country to such debt growth. Yeah, I mean it. When they could destroy every company in the country, when they could fire this many workers in the country, when they could bring us from 9% to 27% of unemployment in just five years of their government, what else can I say about such power? What does that have to do with women's insults, and in doing so, I'm thinking again that I may not have gone too far. But, excuse me, how come you don't get out of your mouth for one second what is all this stuff your colleagues did? These double standards, those double arches in which you have the right to call someone scum and to make it great for you, in which no one can answer anything, is something people see in Serbia, is something people in Serbia recognize. That is why we will always fight against such completely idiotic, pointless posters against you, completely idiotic statements against Maja Gojkovic as they were today and much worse than that, and much more than that because it is the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the humiliation of the institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and of all the MPs in it. I just think it's something that's inadmissible, something that's inadmissible. In the end, I was pleased that today's session could show all our differences, could show that Serbia is still becoming a more polite society, just don't blame those who couldn't show their protest in a different way, and that statement is not forgotten as you forgot the other primitive statements given to the SNS advisers so they can kneel, so it's never mentioned again. So, the only way I'm assuming and the reason the MPs managed to leave was for it to be noticed. It's nice to see at least one thing, one little thing that we notice about someone else, not just the one we like and whose window we've broken down with a lot of rocks a long time ago. That mirror that belongs to Borko Stefanovic would be good if sometimes we all took it before we gave someone else what we've already forgiven ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48925	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48926	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers, today's discussion will certainly be and will be the annals of parliamentary debates from where the Prime Minister, after two months of a shameful act by the Serbian government, comes with a motion for his resolution, to the fact that the government and MPs of the ruling majority are constructing an event that has nothing to do with the assembly meeting and come out of the hall and everything that we have talked about today. I want Mr. Prime Minister, first of all to answer some of the things that you spoke about today, as well as to say that unfortunately from your idea to honour Serbia's political scene and political discussion, I'm afraid we haven't received any of that idea. At the end of your presentation, you said it was true that your statement about the idiotic conduct of a country in which someone increased public debt, in which someone increased public debt participation. That would then be allowed to say that this government is working idiotically because public debt has been increased by almost four years by $10 billion, or euros. That public debt increased 30%. Public debt was 14.8 billion euros four years ago, today it is 24.8. Public debt was 45.4% four years ago, today is 75.5% of GDP. This, as you say is allowed in Serbia's policy, the idiotic government has led to the fact that the average wages in Serbia are the last in the region. This idiotic government has led Serbia to be the last country on conditions for foreign investment in the region. And those are the numbers you say you like to talk about. I've given you some numbers, you can answer your fake numbers about the reportedly reduced unemployment rate, you can answer the lies that four times fewer young people leave the country today. I'd really like to see where you got that information. On my claim repeatedly brought here, as four times as many medical workers in 2014 and in 2015 asked the Medical Chamber for permission to leave Serbia, than it was in 2012, the health minister likes to respond that not everyone has left, but it is sure, as in 2012, not everyone, four times, if requested, has gone four times. I'm afraid in 2016, if there is no change in these elections, they will ask for permission and go even further. What you were saying, Prime Minister, several times today, is that something like what you're doing today has never been done in Serbia in the last 10 years. Please tell me when a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in those 10 years, or I don't know what time period you want to count on, he said to the press – what do I like about journalists who kneel like this? When did a minister say that, someone didn't react like you did? That didn't happen. On my criticism that what you are doing is farce and that you will not lead to Serbia's political scene, you have called on me and my colleagues several times why we have not apologized for the statements of people who are neither in my party nor in my parliamentary group. Should I ask you to apologize, say, for all those statements by Vojislav Seselj, which I believe you consider to be shameful, inappropriate, and, of course, do not contribute to Serbia's political scene, just because you were in the same party for 15 years? Is that going to lead us to a proper political scene? What is the issue when I say that the defence minister was supposed to answer because he allocated money from the budget, that is, during the time he was mayor, contracts were concluded with televisions owned by members of his family? Is that not written in the explanation of the Anti-Corruption Agency? Does it not say that the minister acted contrary to Articles 27 and 32? The Anti-Corruption Act? You told me to read it. Here, I can read it to you right now, not to say -- we'll hear it, I'll read it, or I'll say it later, as you like to do whenever you discuss it. What is interesting is that in the country of Serbia, Minister Gasic, when it is found to be contrary to the law, finally gives the agency a warning measure. When another official does so, that same agency makes a recommendation to resolve from a public function and that functioner, the president of Vračar Municipality, then resigns. It is responsible behavior and respect of institutions, not ridicule, as now the minister laughs at what the Anti-Corruption Agency has established, and I see that since yesterday, smiling in the Assembly has been forbidden. At our criticism of the minister that he said a year ago that he knew that President Tadic had been tapped by Mr Sutanovac, at the time he was the defence minister, you answered me – there was a wire, I was tapped. You said it yourself, unfortunately, that it was legal. I think it's bad if the law is misused for listening to political inexperiences. I do, and you can also tell me if it's true or not, since you're the Secretary of the National Security Council, even though you've been Prime Minister for almost two years now and you said you're not going to perform that function, so here it is, that you're obviously going to end your term without leaving that function to someone else, that it's not happening today? To comment on the minister's behaviour, when a case of cobra's fight with the gendarmes was investigated, you're telling me there were nine such cases before. Please and I condemn each of those nine cases, and I don't know how you think we are doing political and life dialogue in Serbia if the answer is – you've done it nine times, and we're only doing it once. Does that mean you can do eight more times to be the same? Every such thing needs to be examined, sanctioned, and I don't know how you think we're getting out of this state that's today, and it's not good, I agree with you, if that's how we conduct the discussion – you've done something nine times, and we've only done it once. It won't lead us forward to Europe, it won't lead to a better life, it won't bring my remark that this government is promoting people with fake diplomats...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48927	Mr. Djurishic, eight minutes and 20 seconds, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48928	I think I had nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48929	No, eight minutes and 21 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48930	Then I apologize, and I was talking about fake diplomas not because I have a problem because someone has a bigger or smaller school than they have a fake school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48931	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48932	I don't have a problem with you saying what you're thinking, even if it's rude. Yes, this "idiotic" government did not inherit 45%, but 64% of the public debt, because everything taken in 2012 is your authority's responsibility. You've been making budgets and making budget commitments. You have to keep in mind that it's after that. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is not true what you say. No, what you're saying isn't true. It's okay, you 20 are louder than me, you can yell at me not to say anything, that's okay. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I do not want to yell, comment with my colleagues.) I'll let you comment again, just let me know when there's enough commenting. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The Chairman gives the floor. And you're not going to stop anytime soon? To tell you the truth, not waving your hand or anything else, you can hardly convince me of everything you've done. You're talking about the level of investment that's the worst. We've made the biggest move. There's no more important thing than the Duing Business List of the World Bank. We moved on that list from 91st to 59th place. We haven't been that high in the last 10 years. We don't think that's good, we'll fix this place up to be 40, 45, we'll see if we can get into the first 40. It's exact data, there's no lies, there's no fraud. As for the level of direct investment, in Serbia there were no more than 2015, a billion and 610 million in the region, and there were not so many in any other country in the region, despite the fact that it was insufficient and that we needed two billion, just so much about your data, just so much about what you were saying. As for the ministers who spoke, you always said worse things than you said today, as you allowed yourselves to say in this assembly the most difficult words of – garbage, cattle, scum, and everything else, so you never endured any controversies or anything like that. You didn't even condemn today that some of you were from your party yesterday, but it doesn't matter, I guess you're uniting with them today, so it's all the same, too, because I don't think you should bear the responsibility of the vice president of one party, but you should only be held accountable by the vice president of another party, and especially the one who was much worse explicit and much more boastful than he was vice president of one party. But well, those are your principles. I didn't say one second – you did it nine times, because we didn't do it once. People just got beat up, not a single offense did. After all, soon the end of that trial, but there is absolutely nothing against them, are finished both internal and all other investigations, absolutely no act, except in your stories, except in hate, which does not have to be proven – I hate you, but in how and how many times I will try to tell someone bad about his family. I just imagine what would have happened if my brother had hit someone the way they beat him. By the way, your president called me that day and asked me how your brother is, it's terrible. After that, you remembered that hate is a lot more important to you than that. It's not done, it's absolutely unacceptable. But what do you care, when hate can bring some political point, and this other doesn't bring. Team up by fact, not for the first time. They see citizens, they see citizens great. They see citizens, they can read it. As far as things are concerned, we didn't participate in privatisations, you did. All that is privatised in Serbia, 90% of it has been kidnapped, robbed, destroyed and destroyed. What, did you leave us an MSK working? What, did you leave us “the ironman ” who works? What, did you leave us the giants from the crab to everything else that work? Well, you're not one. You've ruined everything and ruined everything. Then someone came who had to get chestnuts out of the fire and who had to fight in a different way for the future of his country. That's what we're gonna do. And, this idiotic government, whatever you say, came to work, made a deal with the IMF, which you drove out after 15 days. You figured out how many inconclusives there are and with their heads no matter how many escaped. That was 2011. Here you have experts like Mr. Vujovic, a man doesn't believe what you've been doing. People don't believe it. He's your shadow teacher, Professor, as you say. So he can explain it to you. He wasn't his mentor, he was his teacher. But the point is, people, this has to be, when you're treating something that you have to take medicines that aren't cute. It's not baby syrup, it's not fish syrup. Our country has been completely destroyed and will not be a paradise on earth in five years, but it will be a much better place to live than it is today and a much more decent place to live. I'm sure we'll make it in that business. And that's nine times you, so we have the right to eight more times, we haven't made a single fight between the jacks and the cobras or anything. Not once. I repeat once again, I am ashamed of what people have been fighting over and what people have been fighting about. I'm embarrassed as a citizen, and I'd be ashamed to tell anyone. I can tell you in four eyes, Boris knows what I'm talking about, and everything else is just so I don't know what to tell you about it. You want me to remind you of what my family and I have been going through? You want me to remind you that you talked about it – did he have an ID or not? Well, it turns out he also had a ID. And imagine he didn't have an ID? Then I guess they have a right to kill him. Then you talked about how he didn't know what kind of phantom company he was, so it was established, so the people arrested. Arrested people, nobody cares. Who organized the company? You're as silent as a bay, as the worst mob. Because it was obviously done with the support of the former regime, with your support, to be prepared for me and the family before the previous elections, and then someone decided not to do it anyway. But he'll push himself to the end. As he pushed through with the company, he'll get through with who's behind it, as well as many other things. But these are little things compared to what we have to do for the citizens of Serbia. For Serbian citizens, we must say one big thank you to them, because you can meet with the Prime Minister of Germany ten times a year and you get praises, and because you can talk to all the world leaders and that the World Bank and the IMF and the IBRD tell you how important it is and how good it is for Serbia to progress, and for everyone else to see on the side, it's not my merit, it's not the merit of this government, it's the merit of Serbian citizens. They had both patience and patience. They knew we needed bitter drugs. They understood well that honest people needed not to kidnap and steal and not to get rich, but to work for the people. And, as you can see, I'm saying it in front of you. I don't say that where I'm alone, I say where I am against you 20, and I have no problem telling you that. That's what people in Serbia recognize. But it's their victory, and the opening of chapters, and the improvement on the world's due business list and everything else. It's their victory. These people, from our pensioners to many others, who understand perfectly what the state is doing, these people will always be able to assess what's best for our country and I'm quite sure they'll always make good decisions. How many times you're going to insult me, how many times you're going to mention family or anyone else to me, and not just you, but many others, I don't have any problem with it, because I know who's worth it, honest and responsible. And, if you want, that kind of campaign fits. Don't just wonder about the election result. I'll remind you of what I told you almost three months before the election. The election campaigns that take place as a form of hatred for someone will never lead to good results. Let us just fight and show what we think is real data. By the way, you know, we can't even stop by 20% of the public debt increase when you set our commitments, especially for pensions and salaries. It goes through geometric progression. First you need to lower what Professor Vujovic can tell you, to grow arithmetical progression, and slow down the growth of public debt, and stop it, and then it goes back. Now I'm telling you, it's going to grow to 79.5% and then we're going to stop it and we're going to take it back. It will be a great success of this government or the next government, but I think it's one big thing and one good thing. We'll see in 2016, we'll try to go over two billion for direct investment. I think that's why we're going to be the leader of the region again. That's what you should be looking forward to, because it's going to bring a new job to some new PKK, some new Geoks, in some new Johnson Electric. Since I listened to all the ideas of 'Geoxa', the foundation stone was made, 2016 closed, the contract was signed in November, so I think it's absolutely clear to people. Thank you again for your attention. Thank you for all your kind words. I'm sorry if I'm out of line or out of line, but don't take away my right to fight and say what we think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48933	Thank you, Mr. President. You want a replica, Mr. Djurish? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48934	Thank you, Chairman. As you have repeatedly repeated here today and asked for the right to say what you think and what you are doing, I do not know who is denying you this right in Serbia today. I don't think there's a Serbian president who, on several occasions, has repeatedly addressed himself to citizens on several occasions, and explains what he's doing, and somehow somehow implements that someone is preventing you from doing it. Unfortunately, no one else in Serbia, not from members of your party, your government, let alone the opposition, has nearly enough time to present their opinions, their ideas and their proposals for Serbia's future. We wanted to use this discussion today to make criticism, to make proposals, and we did it over the past two years. Not in a single word can I recognize the hatred of the words I have spoken and spoken by the MPs of my party, from my parliamentary group. I hope that such tone and mood will mark the upcoming campaign. I hope so, i.e. We have very little expectations about this, because I know we're not even and I doubt that can change in the next few days. I repeat, President, hatred is not the motive of anyone from the Social Democratic Party. We want to offer citizens a better future, a reason to work and stay alive in Serbia and fight for that idea we will not stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48935	Thank you. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48936	I just want to tell you one thing, because I'm not going to leave without an answer. So you're talking about unfair conditions. You're talking about the unfair conditions that you've broadcast those most dirty videos against Tomislav Nikolic and our party, and you haven't allowed us to respond because you've banned our videos. You're telling us who didn't let us show up anywhere, say any word in any newspaper, in any newspaper, in any newspaper, on any television. Today you have television and all the newspapers, except maybe one newspaper where you have more space and there's nothing wrong with you, just me they write bad about. There is a huge change compared to the time you ruled, in which you controlled everything. I'm proud of that fact that we don't control anything in the press today, you have RTS on TV that's pretty objective, sometimes we get angry, sometimes someone else. There is one television that supports government policy, private, has the right, and several of them are completely against us, like this, it doesn't matter, now I forget. Yeah, well, you see how you know. You see how you know better than I do. There is one important thing you should know, Mr. Djurisic, public debt jumped the most in 2011 and 2012 for 11% of GDP and not because in 2011 and 2012 it was worse than in 2009 and 2010 from 14.8 to 17.8 billion. Do you know why? Only because the obligations of 2009, 2010, 2008 arrived. It's all an account for 2008 and 2009. And today we're paying the bill for irresponsible behavior in 2008 and 2009. Yes, then they said that the crisis was a great opportunity for Serbia, so we acted irresponsiblely, and some tycoons like Miskovic were saying - we just need to spend it and everything will be fine. And so we just spent and led the country to bankruptcy. That'll tell you every banking professor, financials, anyone who knows anything about it. I don't have to say it. There are people here much more invited than me to talk about it. What's important, and as far as the election campaign is concerned, I told you that I won't be in the election campaign for long, I wish you a lot of success, I think everything is in a completely fair way. A hundred days you've been given to prepare yourself, to unite, to do whatever you think is necessary, to save all resources. We won't, in advance, tell you, while I'm in this place, ever broadcast such dirty videos as you've broadcast against us and spent millions and millions of euros on the dirtiest campaign against us. We'll never do that. The only thing I ask you to allow us is that we have the right to answer you and that we have the right to express a different opinion. We want you to always bring it out, just don't defend us. Then, go ahead, win, it is the citizens of Serbia who will make the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48937	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go, Mrs. Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48938	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. Prime Minister, I truly deeply sympathise with all those who are victims of any kind of violence and who are in any way beaten in this country by anyone. I'm really sorry about what happened to your brother, and I don't want to belittle it in any way. But, you know, there's been a lot of ugly going on, and the violence and the beating of our activists and, say, the elections of the locals in Mionica. There's no answer yet to who did it. No one's been brought to justice. I don't remember you reacting to this matter, and I think you should, as Prime Minister, who wants to put order into this country, which should be based on European principles, values. It would mean something to us as strangers because it would mean that our activists are somewhere equal with all the other activists. But this is a session dedicated to Minister Bratislava Gasic. She's got an entirely unexpected flow. We are talking in it, about the shift of Bratislav Gasic, as if he had turned out to be ill-trained, that he had almost no home education, so he gave that statement to women and about the ease of kneeling of a journalist. You know, it's not the minister who's responsible because he's been raised or raised, it's because he respects the values, the moral standards and the laws of this country. I said exactly that in the afternoon debate. Don't replace the thesis. We're not talking about his decency. We are talking about whether Mr. Gasic is able to apply in public discourse, in a language that uses European values that you say your government advocates. Now, that is respect for the laws that we have passed - and the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Protection against Discrimination. It's important in a country that wants to be arranged and wants to be on moral standards. As for the dignity of the Assembly, you know, it primarily defends itself here and doesn't defend itself on Twitter or on Facebook, it doesn't defend itself in those tabloids that you're quoting today, and I can't really look back on them and on some journalists' statements about the statements of some of our officials. Maybe that's true, and maybe it's not, you know, tabloids I don't expect you to even quote. It doesn't suit any of the ministers, nor the Prime Minister, nor our MPs to quote the tabloids, so I don't want to look back. As far as Twitter is concerned, Twitters are something that is not a congregation. Speaking of which, and the responsibility of Bratislava Gasic, I said this afternoon that you too are responsible for assessing your staff in the government. You see, I really don't want to insult anyone, and I don't think at any of my shows you can see any insults or any hate, but today I mentioned, I didn't want to say who said it, but given the afternoon course of the session, I'm going to say it now. In 2014 Madam President of the Assembly said – the seed of evil of Dragan Gilas should be destroyed. You see, by that very statement, she became the wrong choice for the president of the assembly. It's the essence of the story of selecting good frames for the functions they represent. Because the president of the assembly must respect every MP, every political party, and allow this institution to actually build one dignity for representatives of all citizens who have elected different MPs and different parties. The Dignity of the Assembly defends itself here. Do you, Prime Minister, know what all the MPs here say, including those you are defending today in this statement because Twitter has something to say, such as Mr. Risticevic? How do you conduct a session here, demeaning any right of opposition? Well, you see, today you mentioned the legitimacy, that we were contesting it. We're not challenging him to you at all. You've won the legitimacy of the election and you've got it, we'll never challenge it. But why do you act as if you don't have a two-thirds majority, but as if you barely have a majority, thus demeaning the opposition, how does it not seem in any democratic country in the world, at least not in the Europe we seek? Here, I have to admit, I don't understand, and I have a very good intention to understand and say – we agree on a European path that you, after all, want to promote. But what we want to see is that in the institutions of the system we apply values that we say we respect, because if we only declare them and do not apply them, as Bratislav Gasic did, saying that sexist sentence against women, then we do not have the real construction of a European society in Serbia. That's our problem. In the end, there's something else I want to say. It's completely wrong, Mr. Prime Minister, for us to wage a war here on who's more polite. I think it's probably every political party, and maybe even every single person has something to be ashamed of in some public discourse or something he did, something he might have signed. There are some books that you used to publish somewhere while you were still in the radical party, in your jaws, I don't know what it was like, Del Ponte, there's a word in between, I won't say it. (Alexander Vukic, from the scene: I didn't publish the book. You were the reviewer? You're listed as a reviewer, aren't you? It's in the catalog of the National Library of Serbia. In the end, I'm very well-intentioned. I want to understand that you want to mark this sitting today a turn in the conduct of this government and in the public discourse, that you want to say – from now on we will be really much more responsible in using words...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48939	Please, Mrs. Vuchkovic, for six minutes and 11 seconds. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48940	... In using good language, I end up, and we will strive to listen to and respect our opponents with due care. We will support you in this very earnestly, but we will also monitor whether you will indeed act, all members of the government in accordance with that recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48941	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48942	Since you think I couldn't find Mrs Gojkovic's statement, now the citizens of Serbia will see what the peak of manipulation is, everyone in Serbia. You're everything, but not well-intentioned. It's nice and sweetly wrapped in blue – yellow foil, it sounds very nice until it scratches on the surface. And then what do we get? A moment ago, you said, quote, that Maja Gojkovic, and we will enter into how dangerous that statement of yours was, you said that she said that the seeds of evil were destroyed by Dragan Gilas. And Maja Gojkovic said the seeds of evil crime sown by Dragan Gilas were destroyed. The seeds of evil crime, not him to destroy the seed. It's a huge difference, and I just don't know what's funny to you. Is that the same for you? Well, here's some Serbian citizens check and let them think about whether it's the same or not. I waited seven, eight hours, the way I was here, if I hadn't come out. You took a few breaks, Mrs. Vuchkovic, did. You walk around here a little bit, walk around there, do all the other jobs, I've been here the whole time listening carefully to what you and your colleagues are saying. It wasn't hard for me. Mrs. Vuckovic, I've been waiting seven hours for a little "excuse" for your colleague's dirty statements, so Twitter is part of a public discourse. What kind of tabloids are you talking about? What tabloid are you talking about? I haven't called any tabloids, I've called for statements from your people. What, we need to get that out of public discourse. And for seven hours, you can't say "I'm sorry" like we can say "I'm sorry." Well, by the way, like, I wouldn't talk about it, but right in Mionica, he's hurt. Yes, there are minor bodily injuries, which are prosecuted on private charges. But that's why in Srbobran, where your men, the beatings, beat up a member of the SNS election board, with two teeth broken, and these are serious physical injuries. They've never been responsible for that, and you're not interested in that? By the way, you should've read better, I in Mionica condemned those who attacked your member. But all I can remind you is how you have a selective memory and how it can go where one lie repeats itself countless times. Also, you say you have compassion for the victims of violence, and here you tried to present to us that Maya said the worst thing in the world, that she said harder things than I did. Is that why he gets such insults from your members? "What about Maya about honesty? “ It’s her own fault. “ It’s like when they tell women when they get beat up and usually get beaten up and when they come to a safe house, they say, “Well, yes, they say it’s my fault, that I challenged him. Is that what you're saying? Is Maya to blame today? That's what you wanted to tell us. Yes, Maja Gojkovic is actually a villain. It's not the one who so rudely and rudely attacked today and accused her, it's Maya's fault. Where's your girl solidarity? It goes as far as party solidarity is needed, and besides that – it is not there. There's no human solidarity either. You're talking about European values, about defending laws here? Well, this is where the laws are defended. But I suppose those laws should apply to both you and your colleagues, and obviously only to Bata Gasic here. But it is also good, because it shows who is ready to stick to these European values and who at seven o'clock is able to repeat that what Bata said is unacceptable and that it is impossible to survive and remain in public discourse. And for you seven hours, it's impossible for you seven years to say something like that. That's impossible. You want me to tell you why? Because politics is bad for you. Because that policy where you never make mistakes, where you're only wrong in the clouds, and when it comes to concrete, then you're innocent, is a policy of the past. And that's why citizens here and such politics won't do it anymore. That's why citizens want a different policy. I talked about legitimacy in a different way. You get your legitimacy in the election, and your legality, but you can lose your legitimacy between two election cycles. You have lost him for two years, two and a half years you have no legitimacy in Vojvodina. And why do you care about legitimacy? What do you care if the people don't want your authority in Vojvodina? You will hold on until the last day, until the end of the day, you will not surrender power and you will not go to the election. So what are you hiding so much? The disabled children you kidnapped Hetherland? I'll wait for you to finish your story, that's the most important thing. I know it's hard for you, there's only 20 of you on one, you should be another 20 next time, so you'll make less arrangements, you might win one, but that's not going to work for you, so don't worry. So, to thank you for your fine discussion, it was really good to spend today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that Serbian citizens too were able to see much, much they could learn and much they could decide, and above all, to see how our country should and must look in the future. Once again, thank you very much. We are well-intentioned, sincerely well-intentioned, we will always support you with every initiative, but not so much we are well-intentioned, but... Just like you do every time. We don’t have “but. ” If you do something right, we'll back it up. If it's a good idea, we'll support it without any "but." If there's anything wrong with that, we'll condemn it. And that Maja Gojkovic is guilty, because someone said – Maya about honesty. Well, I'm sorry, I won't accept it, and I'll never be able to accept it, and I'll never be able to understand it. It's like I'd be looking for apologising reasons for Bata Gasic. Well, you say, "The assembly is where it is decided." Well, Bata Gasic didn't say it in the Assembly, he said it in Triestenik, within the factory circle. What does that mean? He can say it in a circle of the factory in Triestenik, but he can't go to the Assembly? Like, I said on Twitter, I didn't say in the Assembly. Well, you're a public figure, you can't say something like that, it's a shame. Anyway, thank you again for this. I think we had a great debate, that we did one important thing for Serbia today and showed what it is that in Serbia should not happen in the future, even though it happened to us today. I hope that from tomorrow, both your MPs and your vice presidents will be more concerned than I am sure that those people from all the ruling parties will, after everything that the government and Bata Gasic have been through, and then I would say one-hearted convictions, the whole public that they will have more time to think about the consequences of the words they say. Thank you again, and as far as choices go, people always know and judge best. He can judge you and us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48943	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm finishing the search. Dear People's MPs, given that the National Assembly... . (Democratic Party emissaries earning: You can't do that. She was standing in the system as reported. You can't do that. ) Mrs. Vukkovic concluded the search. You have no right. Here you go, since you're a lady, no matter what I've concluded, I'll give you my word. (Natasa Vukkovic, from the post: Don't be a lady, but as a politician. Natasa Vuckovic, don't talk to me. You know very well by the Rules of Procedure that you were wrong, but here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48944	Mr. Prime Minister mentioned what I was saying, so I just wanted to make it clear. So, as for the statement by Maja Gojkovic, it is on the internet can be checked. I don't think he's guilty either, and who can provoke violence and insult. So, I disagree, and here I fully agree with you that this should not happen. What I want to suggest to you, Mr. Prime Minister, and I wanted to tell you, when I told you about what the representatives of the ruling majority and your party are saying here, look sometimes, since you work hard, I believe that you will have time to read sometimes and a stenogram from this Assembly of Members of the ruling majority of the opposition, and then you will see how the Parliament's dignity is preserved or not preserved, and how it does not contribute to the construction of a good institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48945	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48946	A moment ago, dear Natasha, you said that what's on the Internet, what's on Twitter, that it doesn't matter, and now you're calling the Internet. So does it matter or doesn't it matter? Were you to resign or were you to be resolved? Come on, just tell me at last. So thank you for that. To go back to what's the serious part. I accept that. I don't have time to read the stenogram from the session. Don't get angry and no matter how much cynicism you say is someone doing a lot. Yeah, I'm working and I don't have time for that. But whenever I'm in the congregation, I see them talking to each other, and in that way, I don't want to waste any more of my party's MPs than anyone else. But this squatting was not said by the MPs of my party, but by the MPs of your coalition. These insults today were sent to women by the MPs of your party and coalitions, not us. So, just please, I publicly criticized Zoran Babic and said it was a terrible nonsense when he talked about the fifth column. He called on your party leader and said -- sorry about this, this is unacceptable in Serbia. You today, not after my fifty times repeated requests to condemn the lewd, rude and rude conduct of your MPs, your colleagues, your party comrades, your vice president, you have not done so after all this. Well, that's the difference. We can cut it and I can cut it, you can't cut it. Because politics is more important to you than that, and there is nothing more important to me than Serbia's future, and this is what we managed to show today.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-02-05-0.u48947	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm finishing the search. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Friday (February 5th, 2016) starting at 19 and 25 minutes as the day for voting on the agenda of the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if the session is attended by most of the total number of MPs. Please insert your cards to determine your number in the O.R. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 193 MPs in the hall and there are conditions for today's decision-making. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 9) and Article 133 paragraph 5. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the resolution of members of the government. I am putting the motion to dismiss Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic. I conclude the vote and I find that for – 195, against – no one, abstentioned – no one, all present MPs took part in the vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted this proposal by a majority of the votes of all the MPs and thus made a decision on the resolution of the defence minister. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 5 February 2016, at 15.43 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – three, against – 10 abstentions – there are no, 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016.
