ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 130 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 172 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending today's session, MP Miletic Mihajlovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposals for acts and to complete the constitution of our working bodies and parliamentary delegations. Also, according to Article 86(4). Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that I moved the beginning of this session due to the length of the previous session, because I thought yesterday's session would be over by 17.00 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 159 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the General Assembly. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been delivered to you a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda. As you could see, for the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the Eleventh Assembly, the following Dn e v n e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; 2. Proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee; 3. Proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 4. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. We have a motion to merge the debate. National MP Igor Bečić, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; a proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association; a proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic of the Election Commission. Does the MP want to explain this proposal? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 10 abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by 46 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 192(3) and Article 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; a proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association; a proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic of Election Commission. Do any of the promoters want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1431	Thank you, President. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to explain why our parliamentary group will not vote in favour of a proposal to elect members of delegations. Our Rules of Procedure say the proposal is determined by the president, the speaker of parliament, taking care to consult the presidents of parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. For these consultations, the president has authorised the Vice-President of the Assembly to lead them. The consultations, for those who don't know, were done at the end of last month. There was one initial mathematical table with the number of members and deputies of delegations, which is based on the number of MPs, each parliamentary group has the right to propose, we were entitled to one member and one deputy member of the delegation under that table. At the beginning of those consultations, the vice president said that we should belong to the Francophony delegation, we said that we did not meet the basic conditions for participation in the work of the delegation, which is the knowledge of the French language of the Members who participate there. This is necessary because the international organisation is engaged in the care of French. Unfortunately, there was no understanding until the end to change that. We did not insist on any delegation under the obligation, so that in the end, in this proposal, our parliamentary group does not have a single member proposed to be a member of the delegation, not a single deputy. I don't think it was correct, that there could have been a solution. I see that one member went whether SNS or SRS, that's more or less whatever. In any case, this is the reason why we will not support the proposal to elect members of delegations, members and deputy delegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1432	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since SNS Vice-President Marija Obradovic said at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we Serbian radicals were brought into the National Assembly to act as monkeys, I wondered if it made any sense then to have a dialogue here with a government full of itself and ultimately thinks it can refer to the opposition? This is where the government will change. This is not the last government to ride Serbia, there will be much more. But remember from an example of dosmania, who had more MPs than you and see what they burned to today. Mostly because of such arrogant behaviour demonstrated by SNS Vice President Marija Obradovic. However, I have decided to participate in today's debate because it is better to stay here in the O.R. and fight than to give you the satisfaction of getting through in the dark. The Serbian Radical Party will vote against the first three proposals, we will vote only for the composition, as agreed by the Republic Election Commission, where the agreement is respected and where the matter in the preparatory phase has been resolved as so far the practice has been imposed. So all parties are represented proportionally and not one given, from the opposition, of course, are given the post of president, but the functions of vice president are given. We will therefore vote against these first three decisions, primarily the first to determine the composition of permanent delegations, because, as in the case of committees and committees of the National Assembly, the ossion and the proud authority did not give opposition parties any presidency in permanent delegations. Of course, it was clear to me at the beginning that you will not give for the OSCE delegation and the Council of Europe, as it is considered the most important place. I knew you wouldn't give for the NATO Pact because that's where you all moan to go, but what would cost you if you'd given to other opposition parties, if you'd made it possible for them to have their quota of delegation heads, various delegations, Orthodox countries, then the parliamentary union, the world's parliamentary union, and so on. You've monopolised it all. For what? I'm trying to find a rational reason why you did it and I can't find it. (Alexander Martinovic: Verice, did I offer you to be head of the judiciary delegation? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1434	I ask the messengers to report for the word and not to receive it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1435	Am I still talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1436	Ambassador Martinovic, I'll give you my word, please. I'll give you my word to explain the whole tide, not individually. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1437	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1438	I'll give you that time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1439	So what kind of reaction we hear from the O.R. -- we've been giving you. Come on, people, all the heads of parliament groups were supposed to get together, so an agreement was sought, not one representative of the ruling party to say, you want this, you want for a delegation of Orthodox countries, which actually has no political role, except for a symbolic one. I hear they gave a small opposition party something like that. We did not want to without the agreement of the heads of all parliamentary groups or their deputies, so to say – if the government has the OSCE and the Council of Europe and NATO, then the opposition is proportionally important to the delegations, the importance of the bodies to which we send delegations should have that, that, that. When I was once a national MP, there were great problems, there were difficulties, there were also ossion authorities, but these principles were taken into account. Milomir Minic, as president of the Council of Citizens, has appointed Dragoljub Micunovic as head of a delegation abroad, Milan Komnenic and many others as head of the National Assembly delegation and go to that and that state to achieve that. That's how it was done. That's no longer how it's done. Why do you think you can keep all this in your hands? He can't. Arms are strained, both bones and muscles are fired, and it's starting to leak all over the place. It's in your politics so whoever wants everything autocratically, eventually loses everything. If Democrats and others had prepared to be the opposition again one day, we wouldn't have a Rules of Procedure like this today. We are, in fact, now in opposition, suffering what they have prepared for the opposing side of their time. That is why I ask that this issue be brought back to work, that the meeting of the heads or deputies of all parliamentary groups be held, and that as on the pharmacy scale, the number of MPs can have so much and so much. Every delegation so many points of importance, so if you have 100 points there are three, four delegations that are the most important. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: What is important, what is less important? What?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1440	I ask the MPs to stop communicating with each other by throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1441	I said what was most important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1442	Ambassador Seselj, please speak to me. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1443	I'm talking to the National Assembly. I don't speak directly to any MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1444	All right, then. Then we made a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1445	At first, I addressed the National Assembly and the MPs in general. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: I Marija Obradović. I called her, but I did not speak to her, and I do not believe that I will ever speak to her until the end of the term of office of this congregation. Here, what do I do now? If I were to say, "Clamp, shut up, you would have given me a warning."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1446	Of course, because he would reciprocate you with some descriptive adjectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1447	Which one? Big nose – great pride, Mrs. Gojkovic. He's got nothing to fight me back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1448	It depends on who's looking through your dioptria.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1449	I guess you know that. Long ears, only a helicopter can fly. Let me finish this, I won't be long. I didn't even think for 20 minutes. I invite you to take care of the correctness of the opposition in time. There's no opposition here that you have anyone to pursue and who to live against. I was both in power and in opposition, much longer in opposition, but at least when we were in power we didn't pursue the opposition. Give a single example that we've prosecuted the opposition. And you, the advancers, through our party were then in power, don't laugh. We've been keeping an eye on that. A lot of people didn't lead, so it broke their heads. The Socialists wanted to have everything under their control. They've lost everything and now they've got the yaggies to have some piece, and enough, satisfied. They get a little bit, happy. Dosmania, had everything. Remember what they did when they had a majority in the congregation? The whole of Kostunica's party was single-handedly kicked out of the assembly. We refused to be in one working body, and we did not want to take the post of vice president of the assembly, because Cedomir Jovanovic himself there took care when a committee would form, and we asked that everything be predetermined, to agree. This time we won't give up anything that belongs to us that you don't steal from us. Now, our little strategy is different, but we'll always point to the public what you're doing. People can't do that. It's easy to pursue the opposition here, but those who watch you persecute the opposition are never on your side, take care. This election thing -- today like this, tomorrow like this, over. Then those who remain do great credit, as Mrs. Obradovic then seek protection. We still have people from the old regime looking for protection. Let's ask ourselves why. No one's threatening them. Their consciousness threatens them, their guilty conscience, and therefore they seek protection. Who's going to threaten someone who's long lost power now? Nobody. The second thing that I wanted to mention this time, therefore, is to repeat only a request or a proposal, as you wish, for this issue to return to completion and for a good agreement to be made and for this agreement to be both quantitative and qualitatively proportionate. We will not rob you of any percentage based on the number of MPs, but we insist that our percentages be respected, both quantitatively and qualitatively. I would like to take this opportunity, since it is a congruent subject, since the draft decision has already been made here to determine the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, we wanted to submit a request for the completion of the agenda, but we do not have enough signatures, so we will do so for the first regular session. We have an idea, a proposal to form a assembly committee that would oversee the conditions of detention of Serbs indicted and sentenced before the UN tribunal. They're in a terrible situation. There's no one healthy among them anymore. Nobody. Of those who are now in prison, we can only expect them to come back in a tin suit. The conditions are the worst for those who have gone into maintenance. No one visited them. The state gives a minimum amount a month to those in Sheveningen. You know, there's a pepper, one green pepper was a euro and 65 cents. For those who went to support the state, it gives nothing but one or two tickets a year. They're out there in a situation where they have to feed on the cafeteria. I can't, they don't. The whole family can't come to them. The point of this commission would be to occasionally visit all Serbs of The Hague prisoners and to be assured on the spot of the conditions governing these prisons. Then, of course, he regularly submits a report to the National Assembly and takes certain appropriate measures before the state authorities to improve their position as much as possible. In particular, to initiate the competent state authorities to renew the request that all Hague convicts here in Serbia serve time. It was me. I know what happened. You sent me some deputies, so I didn't want to talk, I said, "I'm playing chess, that's more important to me." As soon as you came to power, you took off to show care, so the minister of justice, I guess, went to Tom's advisor Oliver Antic. Right? Come, talk, and done, gone. In fact, I was under the impression that only I was being hunted there. What's the name of the secretary of state at the police department? I called the consul to confirm some signature when he jumped out. Who are you? It's like we're the most born saying goodbye to me. Who are you? Božovic. Which Bozovic? He says we know each other. We've never met in our lives. I can't tell you what I told him after that, he didn't boast for sure, that's not the point. The point is that the state is taking care of Serbian heroes who are suffering because they have defended the country. There are several who have committed crimes. They're in a vast minority. The vast majority defended the country with honor. For example, they admit it. General Pavkovic was convicted only because they said he was close to Milosevic. Read him the verdict. Lazarevic admitted that every time he heard of a crime, murder, robbery, assault, etc., he informed the military-investigation authorities, but again he was sentenced to 14 years for not stopping all the war facts until the investigation was over. You can think of a logic. Republika Srpska President Milan Martic is completely innocent. He shot Zagreb while the Croats beat the landscape cities. He fired seven missiles, and they fired thousands.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1450	Ambassador, get back on the subject now, you've got two minutes left. We've come to understand the essence of the subcommittee's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1451	I've got two more minutes, let me finish. So there's a huge number of reasons to do it. Radovan Karadzic is sick, Ratko Mladic is sick, he will hardly welcome the verdict, Milan Martic is seriously ill, he has huge sugar, he has to give himself injections to many others. There are even two that our state authorities do not give Serbian citizenship. For decades, he lived in Serbia, exercised his right to vote in Serbia, voted in all elections, tried in Belgrade, and was ruled as a Serbian citizen. When we voted in The Hague, he also received an invitation to vote and vote, and he can't win citizenship. And it's important that citizenship and these two who don't, in case the Security Council really decides to send them to support their country. Then they'll be sent to Zenica. I wanted to present to you today a case similar to this idea, but in writing you will receive our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1452	Thank you. Just one second to see with Arsic something. Thank you. My mistake was, I didn't see any good material. As a promoter, let me just give you a quick answer for the idea of a proposal. This could be in line with a member of the 44th Subcommittee or Working Group within the Justice Committee. Since it can't be new because of the Rules of Procedure, the committees are already scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1453	I guess we'll get the new Rules of Procedure soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1454	One day, but now that we're working on this Rules of Procedure, that means Article 44. The Justice Committee may consider and possibly adopt your proposal if there is any understanding with the MPs of others. To note that the SRS parliamentary group is not sufficiently represented in the presidential seats, you have three seats in very important delegations, I think they're all important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1455	But they're not the same. Well, then let's put it in the drum so we can pull out who's going in if they're all important.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1456	We can't put delegations and MPs in the drum. I'm against revolutionary ideas. Yesterday we heard on social networks all kinds of ideas about who we are, and now we're still in the drum putting MPs, and I'm not really inclined to do that. We were in a drum during the election. For the Presidential Council, I really can't agree with you as a proposing. I don't remember the 1990s, those delegations that we, I was part of then a certain ruling majority, so we shared very generously with the MPs of opposition parties, who were significantly less proportionate to the parliament of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. So, I don't know, but I'm going to make a historic effort to get my memory back a little bit and see through the archives what we so generously gave opposition MPs. I don't think we gave them anything. Maybe they're like members of delegations so ad hoc are put to represent us in countries, but official delegations don't. There are other people who were in parliament or participants in the political life of the 1990s. I don't remember if they were headed by any delegations. Right, Ambassador Zivkovic? Do you remember that? Not really. Were you president of any delegations? No, I don't. Thank you. Certainly the Rules of Procedure, so Marija Obradovic has a replica. Here you go, Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1457	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not look back on these personal insults of Mr. Seselj, let it continue as such, but I am obliged to say a few things, or consider a few things that offend the dignity of the National Assembly. First of all, Mr. Seselj, I don't understand how you can tell that you were persecuted in a country whose government has suffered enormous pressures and sufferings and today, because it will not deliver you, Verica Radet, Jovo Ostojic and Peter Jojic to The Hague? You say today that the opposition in Serbia has been persecuted. That's just not true. On the other hand, do not expose the truth and deceive the citizens of Serbia over the fact that there has been no consultation. The fact that you personally didn't want to come to consultations because you think you're some majesty who shouldn't be talking to Veroljub Arsic and me, that's your problem. You're the one who sent Veronica Radet. Here comes the Faith alive and well. Did I ask Verica if you were interested, as a parliamentary group, in making Milorad Mircic president of the delegation at the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy? That's what Ms. Verica Radeta said - it's some lame delegation. I asked her, so how do you put the vice president of the party in a lousy delegation? He says -- what do you care, that's our problem, we won't do it. So, the consultation was, but you can't say in advance -- I'm interested in that, that and that delegation, and if you don't give it to me, then you're dictators, villains, autocrats, in Serbia there's no democracy, etc. As I said about committees, so I say about delegations. Tell me in which member of the Rules of Procedure there is this point of yours, these criteria – this committee is most important, this one is medium, this one is irrelevant, this one is meaningless, also for delegations. All committees are equally important, all delegations are equally important. Anyone who works on any committee, anyone who goes to any delegation, works for the benefit of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1458	Thank you. MP, time. Article 107. The word is Marija Obradović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1459	It is possible that I was wrong to say that word at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it is possible that it is not appropriate in such a high house, especially to the MP, but at that moment I said loudly what everyone thought and what was obvious all these days of the session. There are MPs who confirm my head and opposition parties. What SRS MPs do, that Serbian radicals, that's some story that's been and gone, and that's our past. These are just the MPs of the SRS. As they are revived, as they abuse this Rules of Procedure, having space in the media, it is indeed for the Faculty of Political Sciences, for some other kind of social science that teaches these phenomena on Serbia's political scene. In the Assembly, in politics, unfortunately, we are counting mathematically. If that were not the case, then we would not count a single man, one vote in the elections, but we would have fought it differently. So one man - one voice. As for the SRS, 300 and a few thousand votes, and I respect and respect every voice, it means only 8%, compared to the SNS that has 48%.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1460	Time, MPs, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1461	When it is translated into parliamentary terms and there are some mechanisms that we are counting on, then it is absolutely clear to us that the SRS does not want to behave seriously in parliament and accept what belongs to them, but simply wants to distract the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1462	Thank you. Please stick to the time. I give everyone 10, 15 seconds, because I can't really be here like at school, but don't abuse it. There's a large list of honourable MPs, Milojcic, to see who's reporting in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1463	Thank you. I'm advertising the 106th speaker can only talk about the agenda point. This isn't a divorce case between the SNS and the SRS and I'll be done. I would remind a respected colleague and a SNS who called me personally at the Security Control Committee session as we Democrats fill our pockets. I then offered my dear colleague to replace our bank accounts, but my colleague didn't answer that call, and this time it's best if we swap our bank accounts, I give her my bank accounts, and she gives me mine, and we see who's filling her accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1464	Thank you. No one sticks to the agenda in their replicas. You understand that. That's where everyone says what they think they're saying to him because of the previous sentences. But for a while, I'm gonna let them talk, now the MPs are a little bit wider, so we're gonna come back and see who's going to do business again. The word is Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1465	Mrs. Gojkovic, it is not controversial, and we are not asking you to restrict as president of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1466	You're just gonna tell me a member that I can follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1467	You've hurt Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1468	Again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1469	Yeah. Article 107 and Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1470	The 107th was now, so he can't. You can't say what you're thinking, 107 can't, Article 27. Say when I hurt the Rules of Procedure? From Martinovic until now when I was able to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1471	If I can get to the word I'll explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1472	I must cut as soon as you do not specify the same member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1473	Mrs. Gojkovic, if you listen to the explanation, you'll understand, and then only when I give the explanation will you be able to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1474	But then two minutes of abuse of the Rules of Procedure goes by. You haven't been in parliament in a long time, so you've relaxed a little. No, you never know what anybody was doing in the break. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the place: Mrs Gojkovic, please... I shut you down, don't talk now. I didn't give you my word. You have to say immediately which member so that I can react immediately, because there is a provision of a member who says that one of these members cannot be used constantly, since it has been used. I won't give it to him until I'm done. It's no good for Jovanovic to suggest. So, since the 107th was a member, the 27th was a member of the 106th, or you could call for a new member, or you could wait, to give me a chance to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Inemnja Sarovic, from the post: You just hurt him now and now I am looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now, that can't be. Thank you for not having a word, because it's an obvious intention to abuse. So, the Verse of Radeta has the right to replicate. First, the Witch of Radet, because she's before you. Here you are, The Witch of Radeta, replica. Just remind me who?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1475	A replica to Martinovic I don't know who he's sending him to. No one sent me anywhere, as a member of the SRS parliamentary group, in agreement with the parliamentary group, I was at consultations on parliamentary delegations. Martinovic only appeared on the last day he was due to tell us who the heads of delegation would be. Arsic led the consultations and literally went from one parliamentary delegation to another and looks at Martinovic each time. He said we propose this and that, and exactly when they came to this delegation of Orthodoxs, as it is called, yes, then he asked Arsic if anyone was interested, he asked if anyone was interested in this parliamentary group. No one was interested, we were all sitting and Martinovic said nothing – will you Verice give the president for this parliamentary group. I said it then, and now I say, "Who are you to give us?" We will not. I talked during the consultation, we were interested in the position of the president of the KDKB parliamentary group, and what you think you can just give, you took the most important thing that is true, delegations. This demagogue story of his, all delegations are the same and so on, if they are, why the advances don't even have a member in that delegation. He also tried to do the same with the committees when he deceived the public into consulting the board president.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1476	Time. Thank you. Thank you. Just a moment, tell the members of the group not to raise the Rules of Procedure, I'll have to give them an advantage, but since I'm a proposing just to answer. So, the consultation was, it's undeniable, obviously. Maybe you were at a meeting, you were talking. Please, there's a procedure for how it's done, when you're one day most of you will gather everything in one place and you'll argue all day and argue. But the essence of this debate, since I haven't had time to do it myself, is my right to appoint a vice president to do it for me. The point is that the SRS parliamentary group did not win the post of president of the KDK parliamentary delegation. It is indisputable and it should be known by all MPs and the public and so on. You didn't get my God, what to do. Obviously, the ruling majority and the delegation are a very important delegation. But the truth works because of a group of MPs who have no place and have tactics, and now I've learned it from Mr Đurisic, I'm sorry that there was no agreement, within the list he participated in, but we'll see if there is room for that parliamentary group to be represented in some delegation. I am ready to talk, to see how in the future and such a problem we can solve, and Radicali, Professor Milovan Bojic and the Council of Europe, if he does not want to, wishes to give it up, the others will surely accept it in the Interparliamentary Union of Orthodox, Milorad Mircic, in the parliamentary assembly of collective security agreements, Professor Vojislav Seselj. So it's quite a percentage represented in very important delegations. As far as the Interparliamentary Union delegation is concerned, according to the Rules of Procedure and by the rules of the organisation, the President of Parliament is also the President of the delegation. So even if I wanted to, I can't give it to someone else, and I don't want to. Replica. Please report to the system first. I apologize to you, Martinovic, Marija Obradovic, to reply to Ambassador Vojislav Seselj, and then to answer the MP Vjerica Radeti.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1477	SNS Vice-President Marija Obradovic not only confirmed that the Serbian Radicals compared us to the monkeys, saying that we were brought in to play monkeys in the National Assembly, but now extended it to the entire opposition in the Assembly, especially us who were monkeys because we sat patiently for six hours listening to the exposés of the prime minister who broke the world record in a speech in the National Assembly. That's why we're monkeys. You want to present here that the opposition has been persecuting the government, that the opposition is scrambling the government, that the opposition has been harassing the government, and that's what you've been doing since day one. How much did you attack Dragoljub Micunovic because he delayed the session because you were in a hurry? Then we saw that you weren't in a hurry. So when you want to push something out on the "ho-hand" system, you do it without thinking whether you have a specific need or not. Come on, hit it, we're strong, hit it by the opposition. You say, Mrs. Gojkovic - when one day we are power; I hope that you and then you will be an integral part of the ruling majority. You didn't hear me? You want me to do it again?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1478	I've heard everything, I've heard everything carefully, but I don't want to participate in the debate. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1479	It's very hard to talk to people who won't accept the truth. So, Ms. Verice Radet, apparently someone sent for a meeting with Mr. Arsic, because the presidents of the parliamentary groups were invited. I came to that meeting, as president of the parliamentary group. The meeting was not attended by either the president, nor the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, which is their right, I have nothing against it, Mrs Verica Radeta came with an ultimatum – we are asking that we have a head of delegation in the ODKB. When we came to this delegation, which Mrs Radeta doesn't even know the name, the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxism, I had an agreement, here he is alive, Aleksandra Čotric, from the electoral list of Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, means I had an agreement with a man, since he was already head of the delegation, to continue to be head of the delegation and his name I had written in front of him, Aleksandar Čotric, head of the delegation in the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy. Since I have seen that colleagues from the SRS want nothing more than the ODKB, I have offered them, here since the ODKB cannot be obtained, because it was formed by the SNS parliamentary group, I mean this parliamentary delegation of ours at the ODKB, do you want Mr Milorad Mircic to be the chairman of that delegation? All right, Mr. Mircic, come on, Seselj is complaining today about what was said at the committee session, and you said to me here two days ago, eat, not to say what, it doesn't matter. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He is not power. ) It doesn't matter, MPs, it doesn't matter, what did Ms. Verica Radeta say - well, that's some lame delegation, we're not going to be here; and I asked – how is a lame delegation, when you send the party president to that delegation? So, the consultation was.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1480	Thank you. Since it's clear to me as chairman how the consultations were going and that this is the best possible proposal that came out after those consultations, no more replicas, I'm closing the circle of replicas, it's also my right. I give my word to further authorised representatives to speak, if they want to speak. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. You can't interrupt me, whenever you think of it, to interrupt me and say it to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Veroljub Arsic. Not like this, I'm sorry, do you want Mr. Arsic now, or not? Smaller to bigger. George Komlensky. Here you go. Your MP is the biggest, so she'll wait for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1481	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the parliamentary group of the Socialist People's Peasants' Movement and the United Peasants' Party will vote in favour of these proposals, not because there are among others representatives in them, but because such proposals reflect the most approximate, possible, adequate and appropriate review, the composition of this Parliament and represent it in one of the most approximate ways that is possible for an ideal solution. Ideal solutions do not exist, that there would be such a thing every delegation should probably have 250 presidents, deputies and members. Since that is not the case, it is all a matter of compromise, agreement and, above all, the proposed candidates and the results that individual political groups have achieved in the elections. I will not speak beyond this subject, but I must say that I attended the talks and what is most important and obviously the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know, where cameras were not included, the conversation was quite clear, decent and correct and there were no these difficult words that were probably left for television transmission so that someone here represented that he was threatened in any way. That's not what happened. The fact is that it is true that the representative of the SRS insisted at the meeting on the position of the president of the ODKB delegation and insisted that it be Mr Vojislav Seselj, but also the fact that it is extremely correct in the conversation by Mr Martinovic that Mr Mircic be the president of the delegation at the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxs. I don't know any other way that agreements could ever make a better solution than talking. Ultimate attitudes were never good and could not bring the right result. Therefore, those who did not participate in these talks and consultations themselves bear responsibility for why some of their representatives are not in delegations where they hoped and expected. What stands, which is that there was no mutual agreement or communication, not even will or desire among different opposition groups to meet each other where they thought they might have better suggestions, perhaps better candidates, where they were more interested in membership on certain committees, but they stubbornly stuck to everything they were given and wanted to get more. The ultimate outcome of these conversations and agreements is what lies before us today. The better solution obviously could not be achieved, and the proposal that you put forward regarding possible changes as chairman in some future period we support. I think the initiative that is related to The Hague convicts should find a place in this House in an appropriate manner. However, it is not necessary to wait for the changes of the Rules of Procedure, but to find an opportunity for the Republic of Serbia to devote itself institutionally to this problem and to follow it better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1482	Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1483	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS will support Parliamentarians' proposal in delegations. It is true that, to be perfectly honest, there have been consultations, they have been reached in the end and some arrangements are being made, and that is why we will support this proposal. I have, actually, I want to make a few views of DS, point to something that we've agreed on and at those consultations. Namely, the number of MPs received by the parliamentary group is determined by a certain amount. That ratio was respected, the DS received four members in delegations, one deputy. According to that number of MPs, so much DS belongs, that's why we're going to support it. However, what we have advocated at these consultations, and I think it has been very meaningful, useful for our Parliament and for Serbia, is that the DS gets representatives at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE for several very important reasons. We have had representatives there for many years, or representatives, who, by their activists, managed to build very important positions. The DS representative is the vice-president of the second largest parliamentary group in the Council of Europe Assembly, and that may be less important, because I will leave the possibility that other MPs who are now also other MPs who have been and have been very active so far, that is what I mean, they also build important positions for Serbia and our parliament, but it takes a lot of time and a lot of money. But what may be most important, DS MPs who were representatives of the Council of Europe were elected rapporteurs of very important reports in the Council of Europe, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Natasa Vukkovic was elected rapporteur for Turkey at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for a term of five years. That question is now very current. Serbia would get a very current topic and get very high visibility in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Today, the DS does not have its representatives in the Council of Europe, we are losing this position in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and we are losing a very important position in perhaps the most important delegation. Also, Vesna Marjanovic was selected as rapporteur for a very important topic. The theme for which she was elected is - a new way of political influence on independent journalism. This topic is very current throughout Europe. She'll interrupt this report. We're not getting a reporter for this report. We are also losing sight of the activation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So I think it was very important, it's an argument and the fact that we presented at these consultations, why it was important for the DS to get a representative in the Council of Europe. I think, in the end, that without a representative of the DS, i.e. the specific MPs we have proposed, we are losing experience and we are losing very important positions in such an important delegation. That's why I think our parliament and Serbia are both at a loss with such delegations. In the end, however, we reached an agreement. It's a respected ratio. In the end, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1484	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1485	Dear fellow Members of the People, God helps all. I would like to point out a few things in this joint search that are controversial for the Dveri parliamentary group, although we, as we did and in the case of elected members of the Assembly committees, are willing to take responsibility for all those places that you have assigned us. The basic problem that we face in permanent delegations, as was the problem in the agreement on members and deputies of the assembly boards, is something that I have highlighted and I will now repeat. True, you respected the ratio, i.e. the proportional representation of all parliamentary groups in the parliamentary committees and in the permanent delegations, but you assigned seats in certain assembly committees and places in certain permanent delegations to each as you thought should be assigned, not as we suggested. It's okay, you're the government, you have most of it, you can boast, you can do what you think you need to do or how you think you're gonna hurt the opposition or I don't know what logic you're in charge of, but it's my turn to point that out. So, you respected one thing, you gave proportional representation to all the opposition lists, but mostly you did not respect the proposals made by the opposition, I mean specifically the Dveri parliamentary group, for representation in certain assembly committees, for representation in certain permanent delegations. I'm saying again, you're most of them, you can do whatever you want, you can't just go as far as you want. We respect, you've tasked us to be on these assembly committees, that we'll be in those permanent delegations. We will be, we accept responsibility, nothing is disputed. It's not what we suggested, it's what you practically ordered. We will try to do our job in quality as MPs, regardless of which assembly committee or permanent delegation you have sent us. I think it's important to keep that in mind. That's a fact. Let one of you argue if I didn't say something right. What's more controversial for us here? In my opinion, the most controversial is that so far there has been no consultation between the president of the parliamentary groups in this assembly with the president of the Serbian Parliament, joint consultations, Mr Martinovic, of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Don't wave your head, listen carefully. So far, not one single meeting has been held, a joint meeting of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups, so that we can agree on anything together, not one and two and a half months, and a new assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is under way. A single meeting of the National Assembly presidents with the presidents of parliamentary groups was not held for the two and a half months. That speaks of the government's relationship to the opposition. What has also not been held, something the Rules of Procedure say about the work of the National Assembly? It's a college of the National Assembly. See Article 34, which says - the College of the National Assembly consists of the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-President of the National Assembly and the president of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly College, which provides for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, has not met once in two and a half months. What exactly was it in the meantime? There were individual consultations or the president of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic or the vice-president of Mr Arsic's National Assembly with individual members of parliament groups, which is not the same as the joint consultation of all parliamentary groups presidents with the assembly president. I was specifically invited by Mr Martinovic and said – did Dveri's parliamentary group accept the post of president of the Assembly Diaspora Committee? I say, and I wrote a month and a half ago to the president of the National Assembly that it is necessary to have a joint consultation of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups. They weren't here until today. And that's when I told Mr. Martinovic that this is how we should arrange all the presidential seats and the assembly committees. I said, of course, that I think the Dwri have a candidate for the president of the Assembly Diaspora Committee and I think the Dwri are the most competent and most familiar with the diaspora situation. I personally visited more than 60 Serb communities in Europe, Canada, America, Australia and South Africa. I was also in The Hague, and I met Mr. Seselj there with circumstances. I mean, I think really the Dwreys have the capacity to run that board. We took that place. But it's not the same as when all the heads of Parliament sit down with the president of the assembly and agree together. There must be some respect for proportionality. We are not the largest opposition group, we are aware of that, although we claim that we have the most competent person to be president of this assembly committee, and perhaps someone else, say, the Agriculture Committee. But it is now a topic that the presidents of parliamentary groups should discuss. The second thing that is important was to transfer it for public and truth reasons, is to talk to Mr. Vice-President Arsic, who at one point said that unless the DS wanted to accept permanent delegations because of the quota-sharing dispute, that they would share those places with others. I also said that I did not want as an opposition parliamentary group to take any place in any other opposition parliamentary group and that we would not participate in it. So, I perform and perform, I try at least, very principledly. This kind of thing, and here I am fully agreed with Mr. Shessel, in one good parliamentary practice should be negotiated, at the serious joint consultations of all the presidents of the parliamentary groups with the president of the assembly. I think we can work it out. We all really know how many votes we've won, how many MPs we have, how many percent we follow. I think you could show some kind of correctness and give the opposition more seats of the chairman of the Assembly committees and more seats of the heads of permanent delegations at the Parliamentary Assembly. You didn't give it. You thought you should take everything, you and your coalition partners. It is true that it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that you should give the opposition any presidency, or from the Assembly Committee, or from a permanent delegation. I'm aware of that. I know the Rules of Procedure. Here I am talking about some kind of good parliamentary, democratic practice, where you would show that you appreciate the opposition, that someone from the opposition has some expertise and competence, that it can represent the state and the National Assembly, perhaps better than your representative in some assembly committee, in some permanent delegation. I am, for example, absolutely certain that Professor Miladin Ševarlic is ten to 100 times more competent for the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture than Mr Marijan Risticevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1486	You can't say that like that. That's already offensive. Please. Don't let us go that way. So I can't explain to the MPs that we're not a professional association. You've got to figure it out once, I guess you figured it out when you got into political life. So we're not a chamber, we're not a professional association. We are the People's Messengers. When he's an expert, when he's competent, he doesn't write in the Rules of Procedure. It is determined by the people, the citizens of Serbia, when they go to the polls and round the list. The lesson of the 1st political life, and all the rest here that you will present are insults to MPs, i.e. Serbian citizens who have decided to vote majority for the list of Aleksandar Vukic "Serbia wins", including others.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1487	Can I continue now, Mrs. Gojkovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1488	Depends on which way you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1489	The right way, the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1490	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1491	So you didn't listen to me very carefully. I just said that you have a majority in this assembly of the National Assembly, that you can do anything, but the question is, is that a good thing that you do? Is that a good parliamentary practice? Is that democracy? Is that opposition respect? Are your frames exactly the most professional and specific places you've placed them? It's for discussion. I don't see why you have a problem all the time, and it's inherited obviously from Alexander Vukic, that you can't hear the opposite of yours for a second, that you can't respect the word of the opposition that's so limited by a little minute, that I would simply not comment on it at all. Our minutes are so modest, we can't endanger you in any way. Those few minutes we've got, you just can't listen calmly and you can't wait to hear the opposite. Now one more thing, perhaps the most important thing. In the proposal for a decision on resolution, the appointment of members and deputies of RIK members has one extremely good and one extremely bad thing. It is an extremely good thing that Dr. Miladin Kovacevic, member of the representatives of the Republic organization responsible for statistics, is directly responsible for the attempted election theft several months ago. That's a good thing. What's the bad thing? What is once again proposed in the new RIK composition as a member of Dr Miladin Kovacevic, a representative of the Republic Organisation responsible for statistics, directly responsible for the attempted election theft, which this Committee will, once we have formed it and proved it. May I remind you and the public who Dr. Miladin Kovacevic is? It is the most responsible one that, for the first few hours after the election, 98.6% of the vote was counted, and then four days, Dr. Miladin Kovacevic, at the head of his statistical team, could not count 1.4 of the remaining votes. What was Dr. Kovacevic doing for four days? Counting election results, trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1492	Member of Parliament, you claim that your parliamentary group did not actually enter parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1493	I don't understand why you're interrupting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1494	You're telling the truth. If he did, he was counting on you to get into parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1495	What gives you the right to interrupt me? Pick up the word if you want to take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1496	Right? Read the Rules of Procedure, but not just what you like, but read the entire Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1497	I'm talking about an RIK candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1498	Yeah, but we can't bring up any of your insinuations. That's not allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1499	Mrs. Gojkovic, I understand it would be best if I said what you wrote me to say, but it's not real.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1500	I don't even write my own speeches, let alone the messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1501	I say what I think, not what suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1502	It's just that we're not allowed to insult people.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1503	Who have I offended?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1504	That's not allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1505	So if someone can't count 1.4% of the vote for four days.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1506	It turns out that you are insulting your parliamentary group, which I cannot allow, I respect you, because you have been voted by the citizens of Serbia, and you are now saying that someone has been harming you in order to get into parliament. So listen to what I said and what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1507	You didn't let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1508	That's why I have great respect for you, and I don't think anyone's been hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1509	Mr Kovacevic tried to steal the opposition's votes, put several opposition ballots below the censorship. He is a direct participant in an election theft attempt along with Dejan Djurdjevic, RIK President. We've proposed a survey committee to prove it. I found election theft in the election material in the RIK rooms, photographed, filmed, showed the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1510	Ambassador, please, you must return to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1511	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1512	You can't talk about something that's not a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1513	Here, I'll be back on the subject. So RIK's the topic. You are re-proposing a member who is directly responsible for the attempted election theft. We can't be for that. We have to be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1514	Who determined that? Please don't. This is a serious body. Who's to say that? Do you have a judicial verdict? Do you have anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1515	I've established it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1516	You're the one who found out? You can't say things like that at a pay phone. It is that we are all amnesty by many things here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1517	Mrs. Gojkovic, you took two minutes and please make it up to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1518	I didn't take it from you, but don't say things like that. I will now give my word to others and then they will tell you that you are this, that you have committed this crime and that we pretend that no one says anything about anyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1519	Will you take the rest of my time? You filed criminal charges against members of the KIM election board, because I proved where the votes were stolen.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1520	Where did you prove it?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1521	I proved in the basement of RIK, where I photographed...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1522	In the basement? Where you attacked both physically and verbally? That's what the whole of Serbia saw.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1523	Wait, if you want to talk to me, take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1524	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1525	If you want to talk to me, you have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1526	I can't let that happen in parliament. (SNS emissaries earn: Take away his word.) I can't even take away his word because I'm trying to explain to Bosca Obradovic that everything is not allowed to talk at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1527	You're wasting my time. Call me when I'm done. You took three minutes of my speech... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1528	I can take all your time now. That's what you want. Don't treat me like a bully from day one. I don't know what I deserve. Don't say that. (Bosko Obradovic, from the site: Three times you interrupted my presentation. I was just saying my opinion. Is that forbidden? It's not an opinion. If the opinion is to accuse someone of doing one of the most important crimes, with no tax payment, such as falsifying election results, so you insulted all MPs and your MP group, and I as Parliament Speaker should be a dispatcher at the airport here in Belgrade, so let me say when is the flight. Do you think it's the role of Parliament's president or should I read these sentences in front of me? So you don't even know what the role of Parliament's president is. I do not allow any parliament to humiliate and deliver such terrible words, that all of you, thanks to some falsified elections, sit here, and so do you. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I did not say that. It is. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: I said – attempt on election theft. You have to listen to me more carefully. I'm interrupting this discussion of yours. This doesn't make any sense. (Bosko Obradovic, from the place: You have no right to take away my word. I'm right. I have the right to give you both a warning and everything, but I don't want to do that. I'm right, sit down. You can only physically deal with me. I hope that the gentlemen, no matter what parliamentary group they sit in, will not allow this kind of violence against the woman who runs the session, trying to lead. (Bosko Obradovic throws. Thank you. Please note that MP Bosko Obradovic casts the President of Parliament – shame on you or shame on you. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Shame on you. Shame on you. There, with a little nuance of respect. So there's physical and verbal violence. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: Your da. All right, as you say, MP, but now we're gonna break up and take a five-minute break to make order at the session. I'm not letting anyone talk anymore. Let's go to the authorities. It's in the Rules of Procedure. I would ask opposition MPs, who have not yet done so, to study the Rules of Procedure well and to see that this is not possible: violence, insults, labels. We'll continue in five minutes. [[After a break.]] Here you go, Mr. Risticevic. Two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1530	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been called nothing caused by champions in balcony jumps. In fact, a man from the group "we're going after RIK and there's nothing embarrassing about us" said that I'm not professional enough that he has better people for the Committee on Agriculture. Here, I agree. I wasn't Tito's youngest councilman as the person he claims I'm less professional than that person. I didn't get 5,954,000 dinars or 58,000 euros to promote the so-called GMOs, etc. from the minister from the party of the former regime until 2012. Maybe that's why I'm not professional enough because I didn't get enough money. I didn't racquetize well enough. Maybe I'm not an expert because I live in the country, not like that guy who moved into town. I may not be professional enough because he advocates that young people stay in the country and send their sons to the city and send them to the American house "Phillip Morris". Apparently, this church Orthodox organization suddenly established extraordinary relations with the Americans. That's why I may not be professional enough, but I can, individually, continue the debate to indicate how many figures their expert has received from the yellow company of couples. Maybe I'm not professional enough because the difference between knowledge and calling is obvious because theirs was 5.5, so proud of the board, tons of wheat per hectare, and I had over 7.5 tons. Maybe I'm not professional enough, 'cause I had a lot of jokes. Maybe I'm not professional enough, and then when I bring someone... .
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1531	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1532	Wait, I'm done. When I come to bring someone tomatoes, I bring them out of my garden, not as their expert, because it's his in the weeds where their whole party can hide.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1533	Time. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic throws. MPs, please, keep notes. There is no mention of the name of the party, the parliamentary group and the name to which Parliamentarian Marjan Risticevic was discussed. He just wanted to say he's professional enough to run one farm board. That's undeniable, we won't go back to it, because fellow MPs voted on the board. There is a word in front of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia beats authorised representative Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a formal session, and now that I see how long it takes me, I feel like I've lost a lot of time on July 27th and July 25th and July 29th, as if I've lost a lot of time on August 2nd. The first letter came on July 25th following the authority of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to speak as vice-president of the National Assembly with the heads of parliamentary groups about the formation of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of a Stabilisation and Association Committee and determining the composition of the RIK. First letter, respecting the rules and rules of the Rules of Procedure, and by the custom of this National Assembly, I addressed the following text on 25 July 2016 - Dear Members, I would like to inform you that consultations with your MP group on the establishment of permanent parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly in international institutions will take place on Monday 25 July 2016 in Hall 1. Home to the National Assembly starting at 1400 hours. That memo was received by all the presidents of the parliamentary groups. The time differs in the call because the wish that at some point all the presidents of the parliamentary groups participate in the establishment or formation of delegations would lead to that never being agreed upon. The schedule was set on the basis of parliamentary groups of the size and voting lists they were selected from, because we are going from one logical assumption – if the heads of parliament were able to agree on the coalition lists on which they would participate in the elections, if they could agree on the order on the list, if they could agree on the number of MPs, that they would be able to sit together and agree with me as a representative of the National Assembly president. It went from the largest list to the smallest, from the largest parliamentary group to the smallest. We had regard for minority parliamentary groups such as SVM, using the law of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the positive discrimination of national minorities. Of course, in the meantime, the presidents of the parliamentary groups delivered their proposals to the National Assembly, and everyone thought that they had the right to propose in that delegation that he liked most, in that delegation where they could make the most of their contributions, but we must also make sure that the delegations are formed proportionately with the majority of the delegations in which the majority of the Assembly is decided. This is, for example, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Co-operation, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, the Parliamentary Dimension of the Central European Initiative, the Parliamentary Assembly of the South East European Co-operation Process. These are about those interparliamentary delegations where our delegation has the right to vote and decide. At that first meeting on the basis of the table, writing someone's, let me say, the proposal, no desire, one initial basis was established that it would continue to form all these bodies, not to mention now each and every single one, etc. The next meeting on the same topic was held on July 27th, where a final solution had already been reached and only two seats remained, two delegations and it was the LDP and the SDS over their disagreement over the composition of those delegations, and then I scheduled a special meeting with them on July 29th. We're coming up with what happened on Tuesday, August 2nd. This text is exactly identical with the same time, all the presidents of the parliamentary groups – Honored, I would like to inform you that consultations with all the presidents have been held with all the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, on the proposal of the heads of permanent parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly in international institutions on Tuesday 2 August 2016 in Hall 1 of the House of National Assembly starting at 12 pm. If you are prevented from attending, please send your representative. I am not entering the discretionary right of the president of the parliamentary group or the MP's own group to be sent by them, but about the presence of the meeting – here are the signatures. All representatives or heads of parliament were at the meeting. The final proposal for a delegation of the National Assembly was then established, the final proposal of the Stabilisation and Association Committee and the final proposal of the Republic of Election Commission was established at that meeting. On the matter of the heads of delegation or the president of the delegation, as vice-president of the National Assembly, I can only intervene between the president of the parliamentary groups. Of course I'm going to ask the first question, it's natural, president of the largest parliamentary group. Because both the vice presidents and the president of the National Assembly were elected by the will of a majority who at all times had the power to replace them. So, according to everything that's happened in these delegations and objections to the delegation's current composition, I've only seen it when it comes to several delegations. First, I must say that all parliamentary groups have expressed their desire to participate in the following delegations: the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the NATO Pact. Now, given what was happening during these talks, the composition of delegations is proposed by the president of parliamentary groups, it stands, but the number of members in any delegation determines the number of votes won in the last elections. So, when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the following lists were received by members and deputies: SNS three, by the amount of four, but gave up in favour of SVM; the SPS as the list which won the most votes after the SNS list; the SRS as the third and the DJB as the fourth list. That's it. We can turn however you want, if some head of the Parliament Club won't give up, there's nothing I can do about it. That right belongs to him. Under the rules laid down by the Council of Europe, the relationship between the opposition and the authorities must reflect Parliament's composition in that delegation and this right is respected. Second, the OSCE. Serbia even chaired the OSCE. When the list was made, we didn't know if the SPS would participate in the government. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: You knew, you knew. I don't. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I knew. Well done. So, again, the rule is respected that a four-member delegation must have a majority, and most of the four members are three members of the delegation. Not to read each delegation individually, however, we had to take care of parallel organisations that have the same purpose, and currently because of the political situation in the world are their relations at a very bad level. In that case, we had to keep an interest in the Republic of Serbia and how we would propose the presidents of these delegations. Since you already assume what this is about, I'll tell you. It is two delegations that are currently in very bad relations with each other. It's not our fault. These are the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the KDKB Parliamentary Assembly. Imagine if we put an MP from the ruling majority in the Parliamentary Assembly of the ODKB, and from the opposition to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, or vice versa. Would we create a problem for the state? Very serious. That is why it is a legitimate desire to maybe participate because it has a commitment, I respect it, but at this point we simply had to take care of both the head of delegations or the president of delegations, call whatever you want, to be proposed by the same ruling majority who supports the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have not heard that someone has had objections to the composition of the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members of the Stabilisation and Association Committee, except what the National Assembly proposes, means the heads of the parliamentary groups, the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the RIK members. Don't take any of the proposings, because the law is still passed to me in November or December of 2000, to take away his discretionary right to whom he will propose. And if the Republic Bureau of Statistics has decided who they're going to propose, we should respect that. Any parliamentary group can propose to someone else, we as a member of the SNS Group will respect and vote in favour of the proposal. Whether we like him or not, that's our subjective opinion. Maybe objectively, but some rules have to be followed. It is not true, therefore, that no consultations have been carried out, it is not true that all the heads of the parliamentary groups, or their representatives, did not sit at 12 p.m. on 2 August in the National Assembly, in Hall I, when all this was decided, as we have today as proposals sent to the MPs for the vote. So I don't see any reason why we've already spent a few hours on something that one huge majority of the representatives or president of the parliamentary groups have agreed on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1535	The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic, authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1536	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, I think it would be a good idea that next time this Assembly determines the composition of parliamentary delegations and the selection of RIK members, to take care of some of the things that have been a problem here today. Therefore, when it comes to parliamentary delegations, it would be good for the number, i.e. their composition and party membership to be determined in proportion to some written rules, rather than to the informal rules that they have ruled so far, because obviously the interpretation of these rules here is controversial. Since our entire system of assembling various committees is proportionate, starting with an electoral law that requires proportionality in the selection of members of the Assembly, it would be good if that proportionality were then arranged in writing and in the case of composition... (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: It is arranged. All right, thanks. As for the RIK composition, which is also here on the agenda today, and given the events that took place in April, at the end of April of this year, I think it would be important to take care of some things that can't be taken care of now because we have rules that don't say anything about them, which also made the problem in the recently completed elections. Therefore, it would be good for RIK to become an independent body, which in the first place should mean that members of the RIK are not party personnel, or not party members. The current rules mean that the parties propose members and they very often do not have to, but very often they are also party members, including the president of the electoral commission, who was even a member of the party's main committee in the previous election committee. We think that this is bad and that it would be good for members, and especially the president of the electoral commission, to be people who have never had contact with political parties. Let's just say, I'm going to give you an example of Germany. In Germany, for example, you have on the website of their federal election commission a list of all members and presidents in the past. If you look at their biographies, say, for the current president of the German electoral commission, it says he's a man who doesn't belong to any party. For many other presidents of election committees in the world, such as Australia, Canada, India, Indonesia, it is their definition that they are independent electoral commissions, that they behave completely independent of any other state body in their work. There are also mixed models such as France and Germany, but always presidents and members are fully independent in their work. It would also be good to know in the future in advance, before selecting members of the Republic Election Commission who these people are. We now have a list of only names of people who will be elected. We don't know any of them's biography, but it just wasn't required. So no one delivered the biographies. It would be a good idea in the future to submit to the National Assembly and the public the biography of those members, so that at least we know who these people are that we're going to choose. I would ask the promoter, if I may, whether it will be accepted, to at least say orally something about the current proposed President of the Republic Election Commission Vladimir Dimitrijevic. I tried to find something on him, but I couldn't find anything, no data. So, perhaps at least something oral, before we choose, we should at least know who will be president of the new election commission. It would be good to perhaps accept for later the proposal to put the biographies of all members of the electoral commission on a website, so we know who these people are. Since this is the current model that exists, we have participated both in the agreement for parliamentary delegations and for the Republic Election Commission, we will support in this united debate all proposals, but I would ask that we consider changing these things, in order to avoid many of the problems that have arisen today in this discussion, and especially in the recent elections at the end of April of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1537	Thank you. Just a brief intervention. So the rules are such that the only condition for proposing candidates for members of the Republic Election Commission and the president is to be graduate lawyers. It's undeniable. As for the role of political parties in the Republic of Serbia, it is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – political parties, special section, Article 5(1). It is very important to no longer ask the question of who is proposing, why political parties propose, why not propose streets, I don't know, local communities, even though local communities have political legitimacy, to understand each other. Political parties, meaning Article 5(1). – it is guaranteed and recognised the role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens. That's why we're proposing political parties to all of what we're doing here. That's the point, no replica, no nothing. I see there are great unknowns why political parties exist in Serbia at all. When we were done with the one-party system, we didn't have a revolutionary proposal to abolish the political parties and to have someone else personify the will of the citizens to everything else. There are revolutionary proposals, but we are not inclined, as the ruling majority, to respect that, but to listen. Once again, I ask the MPs, we slowly finish the vote, we'll have a short break until the next session, wait for the first drafts of the law, to look at the Rules of Procedure. It also defines the registration and the authorised representatives and who is authorized and what needs to be done. It's not for you, you're experienced in that, so there won't be a negotiation with me, to whom I will give my word, to whom I won't give my word. It's all defined by the Rules of Procedure. Today, I have to be honest with the ruling majority, I've made a few concessions to the opposition, so it doesn't turn out that I'm someone who doesn't give anything, it's funny, but it would be anarchy. If you want me to give up our deal now, it seems there's no deal, then I can do it, but I wouldn't be at Parliamentarian Milan Lapčević to practice something like that. Here you go. The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1538	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. You really show tolerance at some point, but I'm sure there would be more room for you to show that tolerance and introduce a spirit of correctness and good atmosphere in the work of Parliament. With tensions, there can be no good atmosphere, no quality work, no respect for both the authorities and the opposition, it won't take us anywhere. As far as parliamentary delegations are concerned, we understand that not everyone can be satisfied with either the composition or the composition of the committee, and especially with the places that opposition party representatives have received to represent in parliamentary delegations and assembly committees because the vast majority or almost all presidents and committees and delegations come from the ruling majority. Of course, I know that it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that it is an obligation that opposition representatives should have a proportionate participation in committees and participation in parliament, presidents, or vice presidents of the board, but it would be a good parliamentary practice. If you remember, this parliamentary practice was applied in the period before you took over. However, we will support the composition of parliamentary delegations, although we have asked that we have a representative in the Council of Europe, believing that in such a delegation we should hear the voice of Serbia which is not for European integration because it is simply normal, not that all those coming from Serbia should represent the same opinion. That oneness in delegations is never good. This made it necessary for the other side to be heard, and the other side to be heard. As for the Republic Election Commission, for these reasons cited by Mr Obradovic, we cannot support the proposal to choose this composition of the Republic Election Commission because there are people who have wronged themselves in the previous period about the rules of democracy and participated in something that has not yet been enlightened, which may seem to be an attempt at electoral theft. We will certainly talk about it much more when the polling committee is formed. We will actively participate in it and bring back all the evidence that we have that something that is not like democracy or the 21st century. I believe that the polling commission will be impartial and will determine the facts that will change the picture much about both these elections and the state of democracy in Serbia. We also believe, of course, that I understood your explanation that you had just given to your colleague Pavlovic, about the state electoral commission, that this stems from the electoral law, and we, as a parliamentary group and together with other parliamentary groups, will propose amendments to the set of electoral laws, especially in the section concerning election commissions. All developed countries, countries with long parliamentary democracy, have state electoral commissions and they do not change from today to tomorrow. And no one can say that these state election commissions that are professional and impartial and separate from political parties, that they can be biased and cheer, or that they are trying to cheer for certain political parties in the elections. It is so in England and Germany, so it is in neighbouring Croatia and many other countries. The National Election Commission is the only guarantee such as independent regulatory bodies that we will have impartiality in the conduct of the electoral process. I believe that we have reached a degree when we need to change the set of electoral laws and that state election commissions are taking care of whether there will be and how elections are conducted and that we will then have less tension over whether the elections have been set, whether there has been a Bulgarian train and whether someone has tried to overturn the election will of citizens by bringing different sacks filled in some other places that are not called polling stations. So we cannot support the electoral commission, the proposal to change the RIK composition, although we have proposed our representative, because we did not know who else you would suggest, and it is obvious that Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, although formally representing the Republic Bureau of Statistics, did not show in the previous period that he could be a man who in a valid and unbiased way to conduct the elections, so that we have no doubt that the elections are regular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1539	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1540	Thank you. Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrlig municipality, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the city of Nis. I was elected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins, but as an MP of the United Peasant Party and in the Serbian Parliament we represent the only peasant party. As an MP, I will support all these proposals and I think they fully maintain the political power and choice of citizens who gave in the April elections and all these shortcomings that fellow Members of Parliament now say who are dissatisfied, that is, in a way, their opinion, but the citizens' opinion was different. I am now proposed for the first time, and I hope to be elected in the body of the Parliamentary delegation of the Black Sea Assembly, and I think I will make a contribution there, because it is a great honor and pleasure for me to represent my Serbia as well, because we are hosts in the coming period. Now I would like to say to all people, that all of us who are elected and who represent our citizens in all these delegations want to show it in the best way and to represent our country to Serbia as it is, a host country and people who respect everything, but they have to respect themselves. Once again, I will vote for all these proposals, with the note being and that, for RIK, that all those who have been and participated in the elections and all those who have in some way lost or received a smaller percentage of votes and all of them have the opportunity to complain, but the result is all of us and the number of MPs here in the Assembly, once again I will vote as a man for all of these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1541	Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1542	Thank you. I'm only going to deal with the election commission, because I think it's the most important part of our decision today. After these elections, doubts are expressed about the regularity of the election from all sides. We have a proposal from the ruling party to make a survey committee a team, we have proposals from the opposition to make the same survey committee. In the days and weeks after the elections, many information or information was provided, under quotes, that the elections were irregular, the premium said it was very interesting what happened that night after the election. He probably wasn't thinking about samal or the phantoms, he was thinking about what was going on on the election commission. I think it is very bad to choose a new electoral commission in which most members are the same people who were in the previous election commission, while the public of Serbia, Serbian citizens, this parliament, do not get full information about whether there was any, any manipulation in the election process. Was the election commission involved in this manipulation? Whoever from the electoral commission did participate in this, if there were these manipulations, and only then do we come to a decision on how, or who should be elected to the new electoral commission. So I urge you not to vote for this point, to delay the election of RIK members until, I repeat, the competent authorities have reached the final position on whether it is a verdict, whether it will be another form of what happened on election night. This is how we have one shadow of the illegality and illegality of this House's work. This cannot be good for any country, especially a country that is at least in principle seeking to be regulated, that there is a rule of law, that it strives for European values and so on. Members of the electoral commission are elected to a mandate of at least four years to the duration of the mandate and MPs. They receive adequate or slightly higher fees for their work than usual in Serbia, it is about their job to establish election results and that the next four years are only there if some MP resigns or otherwise runs out of mandate. And some estimate is that their four-year incomes are a few-tenths of a euro. It's a few hundred, I mean 500, 600 euros every month worked or didn't work, there were elections, there were no elections. Plus in the election period, those compensations are much, much bigger. I'm saying it not to envy them, but just to tell them how important this target is, well paid, and that besides that, we have a count of where hundreds of people have to check the sacks for whether someone voted, how they voted, whether they were good results, whether they were good records. We have a history of theft in the election, from the '90s to today. I thought that tradition was broken in 2000, but it's suspicious what happened in 2016. So it's very important that we have a final truth defined by the authorities, through appropriate decisions, and that only then, I repeat, we see who can be re-elected into the election commission. Of course, electoral legislation needs to be changed, of course, and the constitution that defines that part of life in Serbia, that MPs should be elected directly, because it would have greater responsibility for citizens. Of course parliament should be smaller. Of course, Parliament's openness should be greater. Of course, an electoral commission should be formed that will be independent and will not lead to legitimate doubts after each election, which proves that the doubts on both sides and those who have won the elections and those who have lost, whether the election process has been legitimate or not. So I urge you to refrain from voting on this point and thus create conditions that when the time comes for elections again, the electoral commission will choose the right commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1543	Thank you. Time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1544	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer, the winemaker is an expert in this area. He advocates with the right of his experience that the picture in parliament corresponds as voters expressed it by their will in the elections. As an example of his impartiality, I would say that when he was a federal interior minister he was not for nepotism, but so by chance his wife was a member of the Republic Election Commission. Mr. Seselj remembers that. A whole group of MPs has been expelled from parliament, disqualified by the Republic Election Commission's decision. I believe he had nothing to do with it, as I believe this is not the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, someone who apparently participated in not counting votes, each MP carries, represents 30,000 voters. Well, when someone disqualifies 20 MPs or what it was 23 or 30, then they turned the voter's will to 900,000. So I believe that he from that angle is capable of showing us that picture, as he became a federal minister without a doctor's examination. Today he's in favor of medical examinations, and when he was a federal minister, a federal, a large state, it was not valid. This applies to others, not to him, as he was unable to serve the army, and then he was able to get permission to carry arms, and we who served we cannot get it. Obviously, he's got everything contradictory. As he claimed, all ministers passed a medical examination in 2002 and 2003, it is not true. Some fell for alcohol, one, two failed, that's what we know. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Say which?) ) If I didn't list names, people weren't there, it's not fair, one fell because of alcohol, the other one couldn't even go to a doctor's appointment, because Pavicevic wasn't there, he didn't have the code to look after him if he drank any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1545	Ambassador, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1546	Of course. In the election, everyone here has a yellow shirt, so they've won all the choices they've won. Some of them got more than they got just because some of them were champions in running from the Kings to the RIK, some of them got more votes because they wanted to commit suicide by jumping off the balcony, some of them beat up on the Electoral Commission, and the government is responsible, not because she was stealing elections, not conducting government elections, that's what Mr. Seselj will explain. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: "A Scott"? And Scott doesn't do them.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1547	Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1548	Well, here's the talk. Elections are conducted by the Election Commission and election committees. They're election bodies. The government only pays the election and guarantees public order and peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1549	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1550	The government paid 200,000 members of the election board, of which 80% were opposition. If someone stole them, they stole themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1551	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1552	I went out for a moment because it was a 12.00 session of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Dear People's MPs, I won't be taking up much of your time, this is a seemingly formal matter, and it's actually not quite formal. I will not complain, or our parliamentary group is not complaining about the winning places or asking for anything else or more, but when it comes to the principle, which is important, then I think that now a few things have been used, seemingly small, but they are not insignificant if we want this Parliament to be a real parliament, not what it is these days and what it looked like, and how various expressions have been used by the farm and beyond. So there were obviously some consultations, but obviously it wasn't as serious and responsible as it might have been at all. In particular, negligence or, as I would say, the absence of sufficient awareness of the importance of adequate treatment of the congregation minority is shown in the selection of the governing bodies of the Assembly committees when it comes to delegations, in this particular case, this is a significantly smaller case. I am a member of two, or one member, one deputy on two Assembly committees and I am responsible for saying that for those two committees at least, and I realized from the talks with my colleagues that there was no consultation on the selection of the governing bodies, so, at least on those two committees. Their head of the parliamentary group has not been consulted and members of the committee have not been consulted. Moreover, in one of those committees, neither the chairman nor the president, but whoever chaired the constitutional session no longer had any idea who was going to be the chairman of the committee, but was waiting to be told. Anyway, it's something we need to fix if we care about how good the atmosphere is. We don't have to agree on everything, I don't want to abuse this pay phone right now to be a hero and answer some objections and illusions that came from the ranks of colleagues on the other side, who's like and who's a hero and who's the government, and who's the opposition seen during the vote, and who's been seen these days when there's been a prime minister for the government's proposal. I'm not going to heroise on Mrs. Maria Obradovic, if I haven't already, or if we haven't heroized at the mandate of Vucic, I mean some colleagues from the opposition. What I just want to say to you and ask you to admit it to yourself if you will not admit it to me, because of the lack of government in the period 2004 and 2008, this home, this Assembly, and many of them have sat down, and at least then it was an example for our Serbian and Balkan conditions to treat the congregation well. The leaders, the important officials of the main opposition parties chaired, therefore, not a ficus, but a chair of the important parliamentary committees, from the board I do not know about security to some other committees on finance and Mr Sutanovac and Mr Tomislav Nikolic if I am not mistaken, and many others, to mention only the most prominent representatives and left, conditionally speaking, and right opposition at the time. So both Democrats and radicals were highly respected by the then assembly majority and during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. The government may have had a lot of objections and weaknesses, or a lot could have been resented, but the attitude toward the congregation minority and the attitude toward the opposition certainly did not. So we all need to learn from that example and at least get close to it if we can't beat it. I haven't spent any time with the MPs' group, and I thank you and I say, you don't have to do it to me, but at least admit to yourself that that's how it was at least where we can and can and where you can and can, let's try to get close to that democratic standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1553	Thank you. Just one moment. I want to answer as a proposal. You ladies just give me your word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1554	The motion for a decision is proposed by the National MP Maja Gojković.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1555	Thank you, Chairman, for letting me answer. Indeed, there have been a lot of discussions today about how we got here today a proposal to vote on. In particular, the accent has been thrown, if we ignore these persuasive words, on our own proposals for the new Republic Election Commission, since all parliamentary groups and all political parties have proposed their members, so I see that there are some novelties now that you first propose members for RIK, and then you announce that you will not vote for your members either. This is something new in political practice, but well, we will vote on those who have a ruling majority and for members who have proposed political parties who will not vote for themselves. That is not the problem, because we want to do what has been done so far, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and with the laws. It is not worth repeating more times where the political party's power comes from to overcome the results of the elections and the political will of Serbian citizens in proposals for different bodies in parliament, RIK etc., etc., that I do not keep here a lesson on constitutional law and on the political system of the Republic of Serbia. It's not worth it, because I say the Constitution, an MP after me who answers says "law." Either we don't hear from each other or we don't want to get along on purpose. I think it's different before this. As for carrying out today's untruth, which has become a flaw in the work of parliament, although this only the third vision, not to tell us the third session, that there has been no consultation, and one truly group of untruths. I am sorry that the Vice-President and here authorised in front of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins spent 20 minutes to explain in detail to the MPs, as well as to the public of Serbia who follows our meeting that it was not so, because facts, dates and talks talk about something different. So I'll do it again. The public works, not the MPs who won't hear, because they consider the MPs of the opposition here if we cheer for different clubs that we don't have to hear from each other at all and admit it even to what's undeniable, which is that the meetings were. So, like this, consultations were carried out by Mr. Veroljub Arsic, vice-president of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia under the authority of parliament and there is such a provision in the Rules of Procedure. He took care of all the rules of creation, the formation of delegations. So you won't hear. Okay. He took into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation, as such rules are in the Council of Europe and some other delegations and are done in accordance with Article 26(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and so it must be. It's our Constitution, period. In this regard, starting from the numbering indicators of the percentage participation of the parliamentary group in the composition of permanent delegations, seats have been allocated. How many votes - so many seats in delegations. There are no other revolutionary proposals in multilateral systems. So, as many Serbian citizens give each of these lists that participated in the elections, you have the right to members of the delegation and some want to admit it, some will not admit it. They won't even admit they're MPs. So they're sitting in parliament, and they're saying they shouldn't have been MPs. It is also one newspaper in Serbia's political system. When were the meetings? There have never been more meetings on this issue, never in the history of parliamentaryism. So Veroljub Arsic held consultations on 25.27, 29 July and 2 August, which were invited by the presidents of all parliamentary groups, authorised representatives, etc. Some don't want to come, they don't want to communicate with me either, so they sent for someone. Someone didn't want to come at all, but they were all invited. The National Assembly's college is about a hundred. It has also been defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I ask the MPs who have criticised seminars that they are stupid, that they still understand that they are not so useless, that there is no confusion, at least the terminology, let alone the political system of the Republic of Serbia, and how one Parliament really works, according to which rules. That's how we got to this solution. Ideal solutions, musical desires, which anyone would like, do not exist anywhere, neither in the Serbian parliament, nor in these parliaments as I have noticed, are those who are opponents of EU membership, except those countries that are members of the EU, which have better systems than we are. And I noticed that in the speeches of the Eurosceptic MPs. As for the fact that this Parliament is not doing well, because I or someone who is not at your will, an example of the time from 2000 to 2004, and I don't know what to do next. One of those presidents was a member or he was still a member, maybe the party president, probably the president of the DSS, and he's called now and then his name was Dragan Marsican. The great Democrats, who yesterday are the same for you and for the rest of us sitting here, said we were horses. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Well, better horses than monkeys. ) So such a positive attitude towards parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia please do not set the example anymore. I ask you not only for us who make the ruling majority, but for all of you, because what he said about us horses, it means he thinks so about the citizens of Serbia who voted for all of us here. Therefore, since I am no longer an advocate of communication through social networks, Mr. Martian, I don't even know him since yesterday, and I knew him when we were MPs together. So, I want to publicly, in front of the citizens of Serbia, to tell him that I will never use such a manner of communication, but as President of Parliament that you do not like, I will never have such a relationship with Parliament, nor will I have MPs, whether the ruling majority or are present, in this assembly, opposition, call horses, because that would offend you and offend all Serbian citizens who went to elections and voted in favour of this assembly of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1556	Since none of the heads of parliament are answering anymore, we are moving on to the list of registered deputies. I give my word to Natasha Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1557	Thank you. Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS will not allow, with all these remarks made to you at the beginning of today's debate, our President, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, to minimize in any way the role of our parliamentary group in these international delegations, because everything you did behind the scenes, and today the way of establishing the last Committee on Foreign Affairs, the agreement, which would be said, for some services and perhaps more favourable opposition parties, to which you have given up certain places, both vice-presidential and one chairman in committees, we are absolutely not interested. You have to understand, and from there it is likely that your anxiety and today's SNS vice president's appearance that the SRS is the largest opposition party in Serbia. Our strength, above all, knowledge and experience in the work of parliamentary committees and delegations is something that concerns you, and especially because of the fact that you will not be able to do more, as was the case in 2012 until now, that only in this parliamentary diplomatic mission, wherever it is happening, whether in the House of National Assembly, whether in international delegations, you promote and only advocate Serbia's integration policy in the EU, against which the SRS is and we believe a large number of Serbian citizens. And if you can't do that, it says the fact that we were able to prevent both the ossion and the arrogant power of the DS, their chief delegation, the board presidents from 2008 to 2012. I was astounded and repeatedly had to have the integrity of the Serbian state and our national interest self-defense to defend in certain visits, when I traveled with a certain group of parliamentarians to individual countries. I must remind you that this Assembly, which will be done in this conference, and among other things by my colleague Nemanja Sarovic and I will also be members of the NATO parliamentary delegation, where we will strongly oppose NATO's pact policy and the US and Western enemies of Serbia, that as both a member and vice-president of the Assembly on several occasions I have visited the centre of the Western military aggressor alliance. I have also experienced this, and some MPs who are present here remember that my colleagues, MPs from the Serbian Parliament, are apologizing to NATO's deputy head of the NATO Pact, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who is now president of the Ustasha Croatian state, because I am saying that the western Serbian country of Republika Srpska is occupied. And then, normally, after my arguments and everything I've said, this official meeting ends, I come into a situation to invest, to apologize to her, that it is not the official position of the Serbian state, etc. We also had a case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that colleagues from this call, that is, from the previous one, but the same names, participated two months ago in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly Pact in Tirana. An orchestrated campaign against a friend of Serbia, the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation is in Tirana, at that meeting, here you have it in this report here, but it's haired, because I'm a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it won't answer to Mrs. Obradovic to hear, including many of you, if we were to oppose it, it's literally targeted, so military experts would say, by NATO on the eve of the Warsaw summit, because nothing happens by chance and in the worst possible way, that declaration has been adopted. The Russian state reacted and sent a demarcation, as a member, or observer in the parliamentary assembly, but did not respond to Serbia and the People's MPs of the Serbian Parliament. How come you're not prepared to go to that session, so you can say that Crimea is a Russian area, that KIM is occupied by the NATO Pact, that you're not preparing to stand up to the Constitution and the official policy you're allegedly promoting? You, a colleague, told Martinovic today at the beginning of the debate that the problem for the Serbian government is, so we should now have respect for you because you resist the pressures of The Hague tribunal to deliver Professor Seselj, Mrs Radeta, Jova Ostojic and Petra Jojic. That's the problem for you. They said they wouldn't volunteer to go to The Hague, and for you, it's a problem because you know very well that if you did so in order to be drawn to a curse that attracted both Djindjic and Kostunica... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1558	That's not what I'm talking You can't express yourself like that about any politician from the past or the present. You can talk about the agenda point. I will not allow you to insult anyone, especially the people who have lost their lives here as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. We can agree, we don't agree on political views, but we can't cross a line and we won't cross over. Vojislav Seselj throws. Please don't take the word away. Let's get back to the agenda. I have tolerance, I'm letting someone say something...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1559	Mrs Gojkovic, I hope in the future you will also worry about the remaining Hague slaves who have defended the country's interests. As for the board, which Mrs Gojkovic mentioned today, several times today, counterpart Arsic, co-worker Martinovic, an organisation, a collective security agreement that is why the SRS is insecure and does not want to accept anything else. It is normal, Mr. Martinovic, that the head of that committee should be Professor Vojislav Seselj, as we asked. Is that what we're looking for? We did. For what? Because there would be no participation in Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, you were not in this assembly meeting at the time, had it not been for the SRS. For two years, the Russian State Duma has called on this parliament to give its representatives. The Russian Federation's ambassador then addressed me as vice president of the Assembly and head of the SRS parliamentary group to make the last effort to give our representatives to the ODKB. It is normal for us who consider it, and it is the only correct policy for the state of Serbia, that we are integration with the Russian Federation and only the protection we can get from the ODKB is a guarantee for the future and that we will regain both KIM and full jurisdiction over the southern Serbian province and save our country, because normally we will advocate and seek such a place. So, essentially, and I end up, in the future work of all parliamentary bodies and committees, the MPs of the SRS will do everything to represent the interests and politics that your people have chosen you here for. We are not, as Maria Obradovic said, brought here to play monkeys. We are representatives of the honorable, patriotic Serbia, citizens who know that our interest and interest of the SRS is best represented here at all times, under every bill, by protecting the Constitution of this country and above all by respecting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which you like to violate, we will give everything to citizens always and always tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1560	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1561	I have to react because Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic mentioned me. First of all, Mrs. Jovanovic, I don't know if you remember your president's 2008 letter. I have already quoted him as saying, "We want to be an equal partner in the EU, without conditions with Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia." Tell me what the second policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is now, except for this policy that we want to be in the EU with KIM, as our component. What about that curse-throwing thing? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Did you write? You wrote it, Mr. Seselj. Here it says...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1562	I ask the MPs not to communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1563	... In September 2008 Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Is that you?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1564	Ambassador Martinovic, please speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1565	So, they cast curses and Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic cast curses – that God, yes, be damned whoever co-operates with DS, who co-operates with Tomislav Nikolic, etc. It is in power and with SNS in individual municipalities and with DS, etc. Where do those curses come from, those curses, his seed is crushed, etc.? How come all of a sudden you're good at SNS in certain municipalities when you're supposed to bring certain people into certain positions, and in 2008, you're throwing curses, etc.? I believe, Mrs. Jovanovic, that NATO's pact generals cannot sleep with fear of you, but don't you defend Serbia from neither the NATO pact nor any major force. We chose yesterday without you and without your votes the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which establishes and leads the policy of this country, which I am convinced will best be able to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1566	The word is Natasa Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1567	Mr. Martinovic, as I recall, and my memory serves me enormously, you and how you applauded my 2008 exposure. We were in the old assembly building, and you were delighted with my call that no one should cooperate with the DS and Boris Tadic traitors, especially with the fact that they have done so much evil as representatives of the treasonous government by delivering all Serbian heroes and patriots to the Hague casamat. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Is that true now? Don't throw it away. Don't be rude. You must be some intellectual, at least that's how you introduce yourself, so be nice. As to whether or not we will protect our interests, you know, Mr. Martinovic, I am at least someone, and the vast majority of such people who hold to morality and honor, who do not sell faith for dinner, therefore, that in a boring way, as I have done back 25 years, to protect national and national interests along with other colleagues, Serbian radicals, is a pride for me and all those who experience us in such a way, and your shame and shame yourself...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1568	Alexander Martinovic has a word. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: On what basis? ) On the basis of which he received a series of insults from Jovanovic. The Democrats are not there, or there they are, but they do not want to participate. Wait till I give you your time. I took over 20 seconds to throw Krasic at you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remember Mrs. Jovanovic at that time when you cast curses. Now I'm just asking you, are these curses still in force today in 2016, because if DS was a criminal and criminal in 2008, is that also today, since you are in certain municipalities in power both with DS and with SNS? You cursed Tomislav Nikolic then, his seeds and tribes, etc., so I see that you are, for example. in Zemun in power with that same SNS, but it doesn't matter. Mrs. Jovanovic, don't you defend Serbia from the NATO Pact. You were unable to defend your own party in your town where you live where you won 3% of the vote, and you will defend Serbia and NATO's pact. Please don't. Defend your party, allow it to cross at least a censorship for the Kragujevac City Assembly, and then defend Serbia from the NATO Pact both America and US generals, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1570	The word is Dragan Shormaz. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to get the debate back into those real flows, which we have agendas for, and this is what I was talking about most about and when I spoke to the Assembly committees, and it is also very important now because we choose delegations and because we choose the composition of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association. It is something that is currently in Europe, and of course not only in Europe, but in the whole world, a trend, called parliamentary diplomacy. It is increasingly developed and increasingly present and it is something Serbia must not drop and should also implement for the simple reason why, we have seen and when it comes to the opening of chapters of various kinds, so it is waiting for us in the next four years and thank God that the Prime Minister has put the number one point in the Government of European Integration programme, this is the end of this process in this mandate, to open and close all 35 chapters in the next four years, and for such a thing, the main ally of the Government of the Republic of Serbia must be parliament, as well as civil society for the simple reason why it is part of the procedure, because every opening and closing of chapters must be done by all parliaments of the EU member states, not only the European Commission. Who should negotiate with the MPs in those parliaments if not us, and talk about how we would do the whole job in quality and end in time in the interest of our citizens. We need stability for something like this, like we talked about here in the last three days. We need peace and dialogue between us here and in our society and in the region and of course with everyone in Europe. I am sad to see that some MPs of the opposition are still not ready to talk and some things confuse them, and I see that when this is the way the debate is being held that citizens who watch the transmission, and also media who transmit can often be confused about some things and not carry some things exactly because MPs are unprepared, so let's say here we heard that the delegation for the Council of Europe also needs MPs who are against Serbia's entry into the EU. Obviously, those who say this do not know that the Council of Europe is not at all an institution that has ties to the EU, that it is quite something else. It has as much to do with communication as our Parliament does, but it is not the European Parliament. This is not the European Commission. The Council of Europe is something else entirely. It includes representatives of parliaments that are not members of the EU, including the Russian parliament. I think it has been suspended or not, I don't know, I'm not in that delegation because of the number of events around Ukraine, as in all the delegations we have elected are representatives of the Russian parliament, the Ukrainian parliament, the Norwegian, the Swiss not members of the EU. Then we hear that in the next period we need to make such a Rules of Procedure that everyone is proportionally represented in delegations and committees. Article 26 concerning delegations in its second position says literally this - the proposal for a decision on the composition of permanent delegations referred to in Article 1 shall be submitted by the President of the National Assembly in consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. All that one MP said we should do in the next period was actually already done and therefore the composition of these delegations has been established. There is something that is a good parliamentary practice in Serbia and I support it as a national MP who has been in this Parliament since December 2000, which is that certain committees are led by MPs, which means water, are chaired by MPs from the opposition. It doesn't say anything, and I'm going to tell you that rareness in Europe is like parliamentary practice. Often colleagues from different parliaments are surprised when I tell them it is a practice in the Serbian parliament. In most parliaments, the vast majority of the parliaments of Europe, and you will check and see that I am the right parliamentary majority to lead both committees and committees, where they are called. I repeat, in Serbia, I think it is a good parliamentary practice for the chairman, which does not make him any way above the other members of that committee, to be from the opposition party. I will now remind fellow MPs from opposition parties, there have been cases where individual MPs, who have been chairman of the board, have used this place, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, for personal promotion, for promoting their party's policy, not for what the state policy is and what is being negotiated between all of us here in parliament. Because we represent the will of citizens, and we know what is majority, what is minority, and so must be done. About the motion for a decision... (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: I understood nothing of you. If you didn't know the difference between horses and monkeys, I don't like to express ourselves like that here, but Charles Darwin said what the difference is. From a horse man can't become, from a monkey he says he can. But okay, let's move on. It's like throwing away, it's evolution. So, regarding these delegations and Serbia's journey to the EU, it is very important for me as an MP to have Serbian citizens repeatedly and I would ask all colleagues who support Serbia's path to the EU to answer these questions more strongly, as it turns out that when someone is loud Serbia does not want in the EU, which is not true, and that Serbia is not a place in the EU, which is not the same, and when we look at our tradition, history and everything else. We also heard data in the exposé that at this time or for the previous year 63.6% of our goods are exported to the EU, and 21.1% of CEF's agreement or countries of the region, which are all also candidates for EU entry, which accounts for 85% of Serbian goods exports. So 15% of exports, which should not be ignored, and of course we should work to increase exports to all markets in the world if we can, but 15% are left, where Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, USA, Russia, Ukraine are. That's the other 15%. Like North Africa, for example. Serbia's relations or the position of Serbia in Europe are such that Serbia must be in the EU, there is its place, and the EU is not complete until Serbia and our entire area, the region, the Western Balkans, whatever they call it, is there. I'll remind you, I hope no one here wants to give up or cancel the history of the largest Serbian dynasty ever, Nemnjević, but I'll remind you that Stefan Nemanja created and spread Serbia and strengthened by sending...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1572	Please, Mr. Shormaz, come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1573	We are talking about the EU and relations with Europe. General, you'll understand in the end, it'll be short.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1574	Please, come back...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1575	So, Stefan Nemanja held negotiations with the holy Roman... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1576	Please, I'll give you time, but please return to the subject. Dear Shormaz, from the scene, what? ) Tammy, come back. I know it's an interesting EU, it can be discussed, but we now have a choice of working bodies. Please return to the beginning as you normally discussed. Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1577	General, I understand, but if someone is talking about tradition, if someone is talking about where Serbia really is, then the people need to hear and be patient for a minute or two, it won't take much longer. When we listen to things that have nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, you won't miss hearing Stefan Nemanja created Serbia by being in a coalition with the German emperor. You won't mind hearing that, at that time and after, Serbia was exporting cattle, furs, dairy products and ore from mines where the German miners worked and we were at our house by the pirates, which we would say, and we worked with them... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1578	Mr. Shormaz... (Dear Shormaz, from the place: Here, I'm done.) ) Mr. Shormaz, please, you can say whatever you want when someone else presides, but when I chair, please come back and discuss the agenda. With all due respect, all these topics are interesting, but please respect the Rules of Procedure and don't give me any more no more Emperor Dushan, no more what I know. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: I did not mention Dushan. Only if I were to talk about him... If you're going to talk about the subject, sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1579	I know, General, that we will hardly agree on these matters, because my uncle is the bearer of the Karajordian star with the golden swords, he personally put King Peter on his chest, and you've finished Tito's academy, but here, I'm going back to what you're saying. So in 2004, he started working on the SAA. I repeat, Serbia received a feasibility study from 2004 to 2008, and then worked on the SAA, negotiated the SAA, and today we choose a committee. Just so the general doesn't think I'm not talking about the subject. Then, Serbia signed a Partnership for Peace and since then we have a delegation in the NATO Pact Parliamentary Assembly. Just to remind you of what time it was, since we've heard a lot of things here in the last three days, how someone did this or that. Here, exactly, precisely, I was also a witness of that time, and many here were witnesses of that time, that's when it was done. So today we are a candidate for EU accession, we are opening chapters and that is something that is great for Serbia. We've got more and more investors. When we start closing chapters, and I'll end up with that, when we start closing chapters, then we'll... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1580	Mr. Shormaz, please, you won't honor my request. (Dear Shormaz, from the city: I don't understand you.) I don't understand you, I really don't understand that you won't honor my request to return to the agenda. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: Well, I'm on the subject. Well, don't, it's not true. You know very well what agenda it is. Please, you could have... (Dear Shormaz, from the post: General, is the proposal for a decision to determine the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly? Please, Mr. Shormaz, finish the discussion, I won't let you do this anymore. Thank you. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: You can't interrupt me, let me finish.) I'll let you get back to the agenda. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: Here, on the subject.) ) Let's hear it, but I'll shut you down right away if you don't talk about the agenda. Here you go, re-apply. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: You have 20 minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1581	There's more. She has two hours of SNS because she won the election convincingly. If it's all right with you, what's the problem? You could do the same, but you'll never get to two o'clock. Let's move on. So all these committees are important because parliamentary diplomacy is important. I ask MPs of the opposition and the authorities to take seriously their participation in the work of these committees in the right way and in a way that will help the government of the Republic of Serbia implement state policy and close all 35 chapters at the end of this mandate and after the verification of 28 parliaments become a full member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1582	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1583	Here, we have seen the previous days and today that some MPs here often speak to the public by trying to deceive them every moment and every word they say. This is about whether it was a consultation or not. What precedes the consultation, what follows after the consultation. The colleagues who earn it may think a little bit about that order, so that we can get to it before it throws away because it's going to turn out not too smart again. Now, when there's a consultation, someone calls first. When someone calls, they don't even call on the phone, someone can call us for coffee, juice, we can chat. On the other hand, I will remind all the MPs that, some time ago, Mr Arsic spoke, who said he had received the task. I quote, he said -- so how could we invite all the heads of parliament, then we would never form delegations, we would never agree. They are not consultations if they are called a person per person, not one by one. On the other hand, I'm going to quote Mr. Martinovic, who's getting attached to it and saying, "I gave it to you." You're not giving us anything, nor are we looking for what's not coming to us. Then he jumps up and talks about some carts. This is about who's asking, who's expecting what and who's expecting the head of a delegation of certain delegations we've been looking for. It was natural for the SNS to get a representative and head of the delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it is quite natural, and there is Dragan Shormaz, but it is not natural for Mr Drecun to be head of the delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of collective security arrangements, and I will explain why. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: Is this the topic now? ) Martinovic, don't earn it, continue to take and promote political fucker Aleksandar Vukic if you've promoted it for four years and you've become famous for it. So that's the name of the book, gentlemen, Predraga Pice Popovic, which Martinovic has promoted in Serbia for four years. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1584	Please, I have to react. Wait, please, listen to me. I'm very correct, be sure, I'll be correct. I can't hear you when this whole side is reacting to you. So, first I have to calm down the assembly... Listen to me, please. [[Sagar.]] Wait. Dear Shormaz, from the scene, you should have reacted first. Mr. Shormaz and everyone here, I'm not a genius, I tell you right now, I'm not so able to tell you that based on one sentence of the man who makes excuses, I immediately assess whether he's part of the discussion. I let you have five minutes to discuss, and then I reacted. Let me, as chairman, decide whether someone is in the topic or not, so I can react. Please, get back to the subject. In that sense, please respect the Rules of Procedure and register again.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1585	Dear Chairman, I am talking about people who are proposed by name and last name, who are heads of delegations, explaining why this is not good. Being insulted, that's his business. So why is it not a good proposal and why did we ask that we have a head in the Parliamentary Assembly of the ODKB? Because our policy is such that we are in favour and we have promised the citizens of Serbia that the moment we come to power, that we will join the ODKB, we are now just an observer. Why can't he and why isn't Mr. Milvan Dracun a good solution? [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1586	Please, that's amazing. Wait till I say so, then jump, if you know God. Hold on, please. I guess I have a right to react. Is that right? We have the right to react. Believe me, in a very correct way I will react.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1587	You're wasting my time, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1588	Please, what do I want to say? Here, there's the president, she's here and she's gonna keep working. This is what I want to tell you - I understand the need of all of you, and the position and opposition, to promote your policy here, your goals and tendencies, but don't always use every opportunity, we're talking about people here. You have the right, in my opinion, to believe that any of the proposed candidates don't deserve it, it's my opinion that it's your right and that what I'm reacting to, it's his right to disagree with it again, but I ask you to take care of dignity in that sense, take care of people. Let's be human. I'm begging you. So, any disagreement can be exposed in a nice way, no offense, no offense, and that's how we behave here. Here, since the president's here, and since you think I'm not doing very well... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1589	He's not the chairman of the shift, but he's informed me there's a 13:30 meeting and he can replace me very briefly. That's it. I respect the vice president I worked well with in the earlier period, but only he said he had a meeting at 1:30. Miljan Damjanovic, just to see how much time you have left, since there is not always time, so again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1590	I'll be very brief, and I'll complete my mission, which is why I'm speaking to you now, the chairman. Given the fact that there was no consultation and agreement, and that is why I mentioned who is head of the delegation to the ODKB, that head of delegation that we should choose today, for whom you will consider voting, gentlemen, on the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, also without a previous agreement, when we arrived, was proposed by Goran Bogdanovic as his deputy. Goran Bogdanovic, who served as Minister of Thaci's Government from 2002 to 2004, was a man who served as Minister for Kosovo and Metohija and then brought us all this stuff that brought us these problems regarding Kosovo and Metohija. It's just proof that everything here is fictitious and I trust Mr. Arsic now completely what he said – whatever you suggest, we'll vote for it, we're here to vote if you don't. That's exactly what I'm You're voting against your policy. You say that we must protect Kosovo and Metohija and then personally choose people who are against it and who have worked against, or for the interests of the other side. Let me finish, and I have to look at this, unlike the parliamentary groups that are composed of other parties and now clear and cloudy, for example, members of the DS, such as Goran Vesic, Martinovic and others, we are still Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1591	Ambassador, I warn you to talk about the agenda. Let's really draw a line. So this isn't a voluntary singing society, so he sings whatever he wants, but we have a fixed agenda. (Miljan Damjanović, from the place: Look at the stenogram. I will, it wasn't me, it would look different. I'm a little sharper. But what you said, it's also out of the O.R. Please – agenda. We have a very clearly defined agenda, and it came out of big, big frames. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Šormaz is guilty. It's never Shormaz's fault. Let's see some order to make. Alexander Martinovic asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of having a debate with people who mean nothing in politics, but because of the citizens of Serbia. I would like to say this - therefore, there were no, allegedly telephones, cafes or I do not know what kind of consultations, but three letters from the Vice-President of the National Assembly, identical correspondence by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and by the authority of Mrs Gojkovic, as president of the National Assembly, sent to all MP groups and each of these letters is identical. So, Your Honor, we would like to inform you that consultations with your MP group on the establishment of permanent parliamentary delegations of the National Assembly in international institutions will be held on Monday 25 July 2016 in Hall I, home of the National Assembly. The same memo is, therefore, from July 25th and July 28th. I said this because of the citizens of Serbia, that there were no secret talks, and in particular there were no conversations, there were conversations, official talks, and the other thing is that certain parliamentary groups did not want, for these or those reasons that I do not want to enter at all, is their right to send neither the president, nor the deputy, but some of the other members of their parliamentary groups. I said this because of Serbian citizens that they know that the National Assembly is working fully and publicly, that everyone has been consulted, that everyone could give their opinion, but at the end of the day we had to respect the fact that the elections were held on 24 April, that in these elections the people said theirs and that they said who should be the government, and who should be the opposition and according to the Rules of Procedure, that proportion of the authorities, the opposition was implemented to the end in these permanent parliamentary delegations.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1593	Thank you. Dragan Shormaz, replica. Yes, you do. No, I don't. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1594	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to appeal to you, Madam President, but to the rest of my colleagues not to mind too young a colleague who just called. But, you know, their boss let them say something today, talk to us. They mostly had to keep quiet the last days when we were sitting when they were some, as they say more important sessions since they in the congregation value it a unique way of what is important and what is irrelevant, etc. But the situation has led to us now from an extremely formal session, with one formal agenda we have the attempt of several parliamentary groups, one of which is to make some sort of topic, which is trying to show that the government that depicts the SNS is with coalition partners, ossions, boasts, etc. And in fact, it's only ossion and boast, and it's a bit of a rude approach to this subject. Their approach comes down to that, the language of the ultimatum, and if you don't want to honor all our wishes that we've imagined, then it's not a deal, then it's no good, then we're like this, then we're like this, and this isn't the font's wish. So no one's guilty of the number of votes and percentages you won in the election. So that's how the people voted and the SNS didn't do it. But, well, with your insults, your insolence... The SRS are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1595	I'm asking the MPs of the SRS not to get it all day. Please don't throw, don't throw, just hear yourself, please. Excuse me, Ambassador Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1596	Can I go on? So what I'd like to point out is that this only shows their impotence and it's good that they show their impotence and it's good that we're in direct transmission, it's good that the Serbian target will be able to see. When it comes to the composition of delegations on what is, in fact, the point of this agenda, so I must point out that the procedure imposed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly is respected, that good parliamentary practice is respected, all good parliamentary customs and that all parliamentary groups are proportionately represented in the composition and delegations, as well as committees. And I don't know if they even read the material. Therefore, in this material, their names are contained in this proposal for a decision to establish the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly. Is Milovan Bojic a member of the delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? Maybe he resigned without us being informed about it. Is Miljan Damnjanovic, deputy member of the delegation in the same delegation? Do they come from the opposition parliamentary group or from the ruling group? Is Dusan Pavlovic, a member of the delegation? Ana Stevanovic, who comes from the opposition parliamentary group? Is Bojan Pajtic a member of the Interparliamentary Union delegation? Is he coming from the opposition or from the government? Is Sanda Raskovic Ivić, not to read everything, only to read, is Aleksandra Belačić, a member of the delegation on a proposal from the SRS, or did she resign? Whose proposal she's on today. Is Milorad Mircic a member of the delegation at the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy? (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: He calls us all and we now have the right to the replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1597	No, he only rhetorically puts the dilemma before Serbia's public. No, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't, you don't,
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1598	Let's see how we stand with committees.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1599	He reads the material. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: Who wrote to him? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1600	Can I go on? When it comes to committees, there is almost no committee of the National Assembly in which the opposition has no president or vice president. The Committee for Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, Vidinović Maja, deputy president. The Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Mandtano-Immunity Affairs, Konstantinović Nenad, deputy president. The Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, President Kostic Ivan. I list only the opposition presidents or vice presidents of the board. The Committee on European Integration, Tepic Marinika, president. Environmental Protection Committee, Nikolic Dejan, DS, president, or vice president. The Kosovo and Metohija Committee, Bogdanovic Goran, deputy president, also from the opposition. The Committee on Culture and Information, Micic Natasa, deputy president. Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, Information Society, Zukorlic Muammer, Chairman, opposition. Defence and Home Affairs Committee, Djurisic Marko, deputy president, opposition. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Comic Gordana, deputy president, also from the opposition. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, Lapcevic Milan, deputy president. There is hardly any committee as a permanent working body of the National Assembly without a president or deputy president from the opposition. So, what are we talking about today? What are we listening to today? So I'm saying, this is an attempt to create an artificial theme, that from one final formal session, it's trying to show that the government is this way or that way, as we're boasting and ossions, we're not for co-operation, we're not for agreement and so on. I need to look at one more detail. When we talked earlier about the curses and the period of validity of those curses and so on. I'll remind you, and you'd remind my previous speaker...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1601	Don't just please.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1602	Let me just complete what we've already discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1603	Don't complete anything that wasn't good.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1604	I thank you for that apparition. So from all these suggestions...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1605	What's not good, don't complete it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1606	All right. So, I will conclude by saying that we responsible for the ruling majority respected the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. That we have respected all democratic customs and good parliamentary practice and that is why I propose that we adopt such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1607	Thank you. The word is Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1608	I didn't understand, I did, and I apologize to the chairman that you gave your word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I want to point to the violation of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman before you who was, while you entered. In fact, the institution of the Prime Minister has been severely injured. It's not about the name, it doesn't matter if it's Alexander Vukic or anyone else, now it's Alexander Vukic, but it's an institution, like the National Assembly President, the President of the Republic, that's always being spoken. Here, for example, I was commended, it was said that it was normal for me to be president of the delegation for which I was proposed, but then it was said here that a political fuck was supported and no one responded, no word taken, no response and no warning. So those were the words, look at the stenogram and you'll see. The apostle had to be warned and be taken from him, even punished, for those are very difficult words. Listen to the stenogram and you'll see that I'm right.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1609	Thank you. There are different titles of the book, we shouldn't quote everything, everything in the world. I'll take a look at the stenogram even though I didn't run the session. If you'd like, we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: Just look at the stenogram. ) Thank you for your understanding. The word is Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1610	Mrs. Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Shormaz is too late for this intervention on the part of the Rules of Procedure. He could have done it right after the injury was done. There were several speakers among them, and you were obliged to point them out.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1611	Are you breaking the Rules of Procedure or are you talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1612	No, I'm on the subject now, this is just to show you. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1613	Thank you for pointing me out. It's done in the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1614	I will. Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1615	Thank you. I want to help. It's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1616	Today's session, however, I must say that they have marked these speeches by representatives of the ruling coalition who are trying to convince both the public and the citizens of Serbia and who are trying to convince our MPs who belong to the opposition parties, that all democratic principles have been respected, that phenomenal consultations have been carried out, that good parliamentary practice has been respected, that the wonderful government is here and that the government here is an unusually good democracy. However, if that were the case then this session would really be protocol, then this session would be formal. Those who were MPs in the previous National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or who, even if they looked at these sessions through small screens, remember that it was a practice to make proposals for these proposals, proposals on the selection of the working bodies of the Assembly and parliamentary delegations, votes and authorities and oppositions. But in order for that to happen, something must precede and a deal must precede, a consensus, and that is your defeat. You're trying to convince us that you've made a consensus, and apparently there's no consensus. You're talking about how you've had your consultations, what consultations were best said the opposition wouldn't vote for this. Isn't that enough proof of how weak your parliamentary practice is? When we were doing... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: RIK will vote. ) Mrs Gojkovic, instead of throwing, Mr Martinovic, please warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1617	He's communicating with me, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1618	It bothers me, Mrs. Gojkovic. (Vojislav Seselj, from the city: How can he communicate? )
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1619	He can communicate. I asked to answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1620	Okay? It's no problem for us to know the future only what's allowed, what isn't. Okay. As for the election of the board, you know that the parliamentary practice in Serbia has imposed that the chairman of the Administrative Committee comes from the strongest opposition party and in general from the second-in-command of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is the SRS and this is a practice that lasted somewhere until 2009...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1621	You forgot your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1622	Just about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1623	It's not the board of directors on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1624	The committees are being filled in, and I am talking about parliamentary principles according to which they are also being elected here, and that is what everyone has been talking about, and you, as a proposing representative, Mrs Gojkovic, have been talking about parliamentary principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1625	I'm a proposing, not a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1626	Yes, as a proposer. Then don't deny me the right to talk about it. And the very fact that the insistent opposition is silenced, and what is it if it's not silence when you interrupt me and I'm talking about the subject? So this is exactly the topic. How were the consultations going because this is one process that has been going on since the beginning? The parliamentary practice was commissioned after the 2008 elections, then Tomislav Nikolic, as a representative of the parliamentary group and the SRS list, was elected president of the Administrative Committee and it was undeniable. When our mandates are stolen, I will remind you that it is then in accordance with Article 102. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia could have been entrusted with its mandate and that was done by all SRS MPs. However, most were required in the Administrative Committee and then, according to the Serbian Constitution, G 17 plus and LDP, did not vote DS, which also guaranteed those mandates for those who left the SRS, did not vote the DSS, not yet some. We insisted that the post of chairman of the Management Board be returned to the SRS, instead Nenad Konstantinovic of the DS was elected and I assume that you are paying him back today with this choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1627	MP, so the history of the parliamentaryism of the Republic of Serbia is not on the agenda. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Toma writes a book about it. ( ) Freely, everyone has the right to write a book of whatever they want, but here is the agenda at this session, an extraordinary session that has a strictly established agenda by the promoters. Not to mix grandmothers and frogs. Don't say "that's right" so you can come back. So we don't mix grandmothers and frogs. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Okay, these are frogs, I'm a grandmother. Thank you for that, you're a new MP and you're doing well to begin with.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1628	How much time do I have, if I can...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1629	You have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1630	How specific?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1631	When the computer's out, when it's over, I'll let you know. So four points of the agenda and you'll have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1632	If you can be kind, just so I know how much time left to adjust to my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1633	I'm convinced you're doing well, and at this point you don't know because it just shows when it's over...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1634	The second thesis represented by the promoter and represented by the ruling coalition MPs is that all delegations and all committees are of the same importance. If so, why did you say immediately at the beginning of these consultations that there are no opposition committees? So it was the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, security control, defence, Kosovo and Metohija, etc. A whole series of committees. If they're all the same, if all the delegations are the same, why? So you said that in this OSCE delegation there couldn't be anyone from the opposition, because my God, there's a vote and every vote is important, and it could happen that someone from the opposition votes differently. That is the point of each presenting his policy and the opposition getting their representatives in proportion to the number of MPs, and then voting in those delegations as they wish. Why would it be an obligation for anyone and what is the point of presenting if we were to vote in the way of power. You just can't convince anyone. Thesis works so-called. The opposition how they got the board president because he's my God my expert is more than funny. For example, we see from all the other committees how important expertise is. It doesn't matter. There was a deal that applied. There has been no consultation of what has always been in the past, to make a meeting of all the heads of parliament and to make a comprehensive agreement. The arrangement was made, and then the set was all presented before the Assembly and was always without discussion and passing unanimously. Your defeat is that this time you didn't just fail, you didn't want to. Your answer to any criticism of the opposition is – we won most of the elections, for us the people voted. The people voted for Alexander Vukic and his name was on that list, he got so many percent. But if we're talking about percentages, look at RIK. In the RIK of 17 members, you have 13 members, I'm not talking about deputies. Thirteen members are about 76.5% of the total number of RIK members, so plus the secretary, plus a representative from the Statistics Office. Did you win 76.5% of the vote? You have not, gentlemen, and especially none of you have won them, and at least those who speak the most have won them – we have taken votes. Come on out. Those who point to Natasa Jovanovic how many votes she won, but she came out under her name, under the name of her party and when she won 3% and when she won 30%. Now, that's what you should admire and respect. That's the point. When it comes to RIK, the SRS has one member and two deputies, but when the vote comes, you will again dominate. Deputys don't matter if we don't lie. They're important members, votes are important tomorrow at the vote. Any important decision will be made by all members. If it doesn't matter, let's switch, it's not too late, so there are two members and one deputy SRS and there's also going to be other opposition MP groups. You already have most of it and it's not controversial. If you're so strong, so powerful, so smart, so beautiful, so educated, so loved by the people, then what are you afraid of? Why are you so rigid? No congregation assembly and no government was more rigid, and that is perhaps the biggest problem. Whoever sits on that chair, here's Verica, we thought at the time Gordana Komic chaired that there was no further from it, and warned the DS that she would come when she hit that Rules of Procedure. And, somewhere, here's to admit, there's someone and a pleasure to be seen today when they fall under that Rules of Procedure. But that Rules of Procedure is not democratic, and that is what you who were in the SRS at the time, and today you are in the SNS. Well, then why don't you now change what's undemocratic, what's against parliamentaryism in Serbia? Now you're the government, so it doesn't suit you anymore. I proposed to him in consultation with Mr Arsic the principle by which the committees would be elected and by which delegations and heads of delegations would be elected, to determine the proportionate size of the parliamentary groups of quotas, and then to first elect opposition political parties. I think it would be a good parliamentary practice. This is what has worked in some previous congregation meetings and not only has it worked, but it has worked well. One more thing. You point out as an argument that the government of the Republic of Serbia did not deliver Vojislav Seselj, Verica Radet, Jovo Ostojic and Peter Jojic to The Hague. Well, my God, I guess that's why we shouldn't be looking for board seats. What does that mean? You didn't deliver to The Hague...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1635	Mr. Sarovic, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1636	Here, I'm done. You didn't deliver them not for us, but for you. The second question - what links in the rule of law, in which there is division of the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial, has the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the delivery of Verica Radeta, Jojic and Ostojic? Well, there's nothing. This is just another proof of how much you have subjected to both legislative and judicial authority, and then you say, "Here, we have not delivered them."
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1637	The motion for a decision is proposed by the National MP Maja Gojković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1638	Thank you. So I'm not looking for a replica, I don't need a replica, because the speaker didn't speak at all about the subject, so I don't know what to replicate. But even though there's no direct transmission of this session, I assume you know that, because such a contract RTS was being transferred... Well, it's not funny, it's reality, it's not all funny. There are huge points that RTS would have to pay if it didn't pass on certain games, but we don't work here for transmission. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: There is no transmission now? No, there's no transmission at all. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: E, come on, goodbye. The citizens of Serbia will see it when the conditions are over, when the Olympics pass. There's nothing to hide. That's how it's been since day one. I never make it up. We've explained everything. All MPs know it here. Would you please ring for silence? And you have to go too? Okay, then I'll come.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1639	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1640	So it's no secret. As long as the Olympics lasts, there's no transmission. When there are conditions, then we go to re-emission, because such a contract is RTS, which is very cruel about paying the fines if they don't carry individual games. It was handed to me by the director of RTS before we even started. So it's no secret. The word still has Vladimir Djukanovic, and then we will move on to the vote if nothing is disputed in his speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1641	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I don't know, seems to have some MPs here for the sole purpose of transfer, as if parliament is about to be a circus, so it should be real here, that's how they attract attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1642	Ambassador, please talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1643	I have to, just for the public's sake. By the way, it seems to me that one other television channel is broadcasting to the Assembly, so I don't know what they've come out of it, but whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1644	Don't pass it on today, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1645	Whatever. I see that here the chairman of the main problem of the ODKB delegation is respected, i.e. someone wants to be in the delegation by post. I'm just going to read it, it's very important because of this delegation, some things about eventually these relationships. It is said: “Brother America, continuing the tradition of the Serbian uncle who saved hundreds of your airmen and officers in World War II, we Serbian Chetniks want to help you again, this time we are sending an expeditionary army of Chetniks to Iraq to help you fight this vermin. This Corps of ours would, in fact, only be the predecessor of a vast Chetnik army, under the command of the Duke of Vojislav Seselj, who is ready to move to the Middle East at any moment. This is probably very funny to you, but we Chetniks aren't even kidding. “
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1646	Ambassador, explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1647	I'll explain, of course. We never liked the harlequinades of that kind. No, I don't. We're just ready to reunite with you. And be assured that the Chetnik army isn't a little silk, or God forbid it's timid. On the contrary, in case you accept this initiative, you will see the Chetniks settle things. They were alive, and they saw it. And then they argue that on an interview, for example. will be a report from Iraq. It says - good evening, dear viewers, the situation in the Middle East is calm and without the trestles, the first Ravnagore Corps arrived in Baghdad a few hours ago and nothing has been heard since, it seems the Serbian Chetniks have managed to end the Middle East crisis. Why am I reading all this? It would be very debatable if people who put themselves in alliance with the US military, and otherwise, that's the magazine -- in 1990, here with Duke Momcio Djujic, who so wanted an alliance with the US military, were just going to the ODKB today. That would be very disputable and perhaps even very dangerous for this country. So, I'm not sure that would be in line with our good relationship with the Russian Federation. Otherwise, I am not a supporter of what the ruling majority, as a sign of goodwill, is allegedly giving committees, the chairman board or delegation to the opposition. I am a great opponent that the opposition has any chairman in both committees and delegations. Because it's the same logic as when you choose the president of parliament. It is the ruling majority that gives the president of parliament, and everything else goes in line with the proportional relationship between the forces in parliament. Please, to be fair, when the Serbian Progressive Party is one day an opposition, my God, it is something that is normal, I am a great opponent that the Serbian Progressive Party has a single chairman in committees and delegations because it is something that is in line with some democratic postulates and principles. The president gives power, and you beat us, and I'm really against it. I am not in favour of any of the opposition, anywhere, having any committee or any delegation chair. Thank God, in accordance with such a proportionate relationship, forces can be on those committees and on those delegations. With that in mind, we'll vote for this, because it's something that's positive. I think we as a state must develop excellent relations with both the ODKB and the NATO Pact and with a delegation related to Southeast Europe. It was completely amazing for me here to say that his stupidity was an inter-lawful delegation. Why is someone against Orthodoxism? We must develop with all Orthodox countries extraordinary relations and parliamentary co-operation. I was just horrified by it when someone said it was his pointless and stupid delegation. Thus, he showed this relationship to all Orthodox countries, but he speaks well more of it. In any case, as an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party, I will support this proposal with, of course, the fence and I will always oppose that someone who is the opposition gets any presidency on any committee or delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1648	Thank you. How come there are no more reported on the list, before the search is concluded, I'm asking in Article 96?
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1649	I just want to say a few things about...
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1650	It's all right. Bosko Obradović has excluded you. Don't touch anything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1651	I'd just like to reply, if I may, to your comment on the character of the Republic Election Commission. It is very important for future elections to change a law that explains how the work is established and the Republic Election Commission. Article 5 The constitution, which you quoted and which says -- is being guaranteed and recognised as political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens, refers to three acts that are representative. So, on representative bodies such as the Assembly, congregation committees, and others. However, a republican electoral body should not be such a body, although it is now such a body. Therefore, the Republic Election Commission does not even have a law under which it works, a special law, but is defined by the electoral law. So, according to the current law and the Republic Election Commission is kind of a representative body, but the point is that it shouldn't be. Therefore, it must be a professional, professional body chosen by the National Assembly, but where we would not send political representatives or party members. So once again, in developed parliamentary democracies, that is not the case. Once again, I would like to ask, if I may, the representative, or the legislator of this law to at least tell us something orally about the President or the proposed President of the Republic Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1652	Regardless, and what you suggested, we should choose these people. So we can't get past the political parties and the decisions of this body. That's why I'm calling on the Constitution. We are our own citizens' representatives to overturn their will into a particular choice of people who will do something in this country. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1653	Dear Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, I would only like to try once more in that little time that I have left to repeat our position in order to, hopefully, finally and accurately understand. So, at first, I said that we as an opposition parliamentary group would vote for these proposals because you asked us to propose our members and what we have proposed our members, so we can't be against our proposed members now. That's the first thing. We showed a very constructive one role, but then we wanted to make a few remarks below. I didn't expect these remarks to cause such a problem. The remarks were about some principled things. One, that may have been better, or I am convinced that it would have been better if we had had more serious consultations of the president of the parliamentary groups with the president of the National Assembly himself, that we had agreed together, went out here today and voted together and adopted this joint agreement. I still think that would be better. I also found that there is one flaw in the proposal of RIK members because there is a certain reasonable doubt that we will resolve through the polling committee, whether it is indeed such, that it participated in something that should not be done, which is a criminal offence, which is forging the electoral will of citizens. That's our reasonable doubt. We have evidence. That's why we asked for the formation of a survey board. We'll expose them. We'll see how it ends. We still vote for the new RIK, and if what we now claim to be controversial, of course, we will ask for his shift, as we asked right after the election. I think it's also constructive, very precise, very correct and very fair. What I just want to tell you is there's no doubt that you have a ruling majority here, but you have to get used to having the opposition. Simply, we have a different opinion than you, a different opinion from you, sometimes the opposite opinion from you. Anyway, opposition opinion on you. You have to get used to putting up with it. Don't, people, react whenever the opposition has a different opinion. That's normal. It's democracy. It's good for Serbian democracy and it's good for you progressives to finally have someone tell you exactly what you're doing wrong and to fix it, if you want. If you just want to argue and what's particularly incorrect is that when you hear the opposition word that you declare it verbal and physical violence. There is no violence, there are only opposition and you in the previous two mandates from 2012 to 2016 are not used to having a serious opposition and you are not used to having a spot in your biography and then it is very difficult to answer. I understand what your problem with "The Dvors" is, you haven't been able to find a spot in 18 years, otherwise you'd be bringing it up here all day long, but there isn't, and then you don't mind the opposition without a stain. The opposition with stains suits you because you can criticize them all day. So, to conclude, nothing is disputed, you have the ruling majority to vote whatever you want. Place whoever you want at any presidential post, but you must listen to the opposition's objections. You must be aware that you have a different, different and opposite opinion in this assembly of the National Assembly, and in that sense I call you to this opposition opinion never again call it verbal and physical violence. It's not there. There's an entirely different opinion here.
ParlaMint-RS_2016-08-12-0.u1654	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs. Since we've wasted our time in the debate, according to Article 98(4). I conclude my Rules of Procedure a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. Dear Members, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I determine Friday, 12 August 2016, starting at 13pm and 51 minutes as the day for voting on the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you that we need to have a majority of the total number of MPs at the session. Please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The MPs who are in the O.R., not the card throwers, are not here. (Bosko Obradović, from the city: You said you had quorum. No, this is where you determine the presence in the O.R. Thank you. Time out for 15 minutes. Continuing is at 14 hours and five minutes. I ask MPs who will approach the vote to enter the hall. [[After a break.]] To determine the number of MPs, please insert your cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further decision-making. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in principle. Please approach the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have been adopted by the motion for a decision, in principle. At points 1 and 2, the amendment was tabled by MP Maja Gojković. These were changes given by parliamentary groups after yesterday's government election. So, instead of Dusan Pavlovic Jovan Jovanovic and instead of Slavica Đukić Dejanović, Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. It's their right to change their members. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 142. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the amendment by majority. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 143. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 142. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted on by one MP. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted four MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
